Report No. PID9966
Project Name                     Zambia-Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           HIV/AIDS
Project ID                       ZMPE3248
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
Address: P.O. Box 50062. Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: James Mtonga
Fax: 260-1-251078
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                July 2, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 12, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 20, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The HIV/AIDS situation in ZambiaZambia is one of the countries that has
been hit hard by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. With the first case reported in
1984, infection rates have increased rapidly to a level whereby 19-20 per
cent of the adult population (15-49 years) was estimated to be HIV
positive. The epidemic has since stabilized around that high prevalence
rate (see Figure 1). Of the approximately 870,000 Zambians who are living
with HIV (by the end of 1999), 40,000 are children aged 0-14 years. Of
particular concern is HIV prevalence among young women, with 17 percent of
women aged 15-24 being infected versus 8 percent of men in the same age
group, reflecting their specific vulnerability in sexual
relationships.Figure lPromising trends in the HIV prevalence among
pregnant women aged 15 to 19 are beginning to emerge. Studies have
indicated and confirmed that the HIV infection rates among this particular
group in four Lusaka sites have declined from 28 percent in 1993 to 15
percent in 1998. The reason for this welcome decline has been attributed
to behavioral change among the urban youth. More studies are, however,
required to fully understand this phenomenon. The downward trend suggests
that momentum is building for behavior changes that will impede HIV
transmission among this age group. Such a momentum, however, should not
give room for complacency because the prevalence rate is still high and
may worsen.The impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on Zambian societyA
relatively large number of impact studies have been carried out in Zambia,
and elsewhere, documenting the details and extent of the impact the
HIV/AIDS epidemic has on individuals infected or affected, their
households, firms and businesses, whole sectors, and the economy. The
overall conclusion, that all productive efforts, whether applied to
economic activity, subsistence or service delivery, are severely affected,
is driven by the fact that HIV/AIDS affects mainly people in their most
productive years.Of particular concern is the situation of vulnerable
children in Zambia. The effects of poverty are especially felt among the
children, and their suffering has been called Zambia's silent crisis, as



much of it is contained in the confines of households and communities
(Orphans and Vulnerable Children, A Situation Analysis, Zambia 1999).
There is little doubt that the HIV/AIDS epidemic has significantly
worsened their situation. Already in 1999 there were an estimated 520,000
children orphaned as a result of AIDS in Zambia. That number is estimated
to continue to rise to 895,000 by 2009 and 974,000 by 2014.Since the
advent of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia, tuberculosis infection rates
have increased nearly five-fold, from a fairly constant rate of 100 new
cases per 100,000 population in 1984 to over 500 new cases per 100,000
population in 1996. The number of new cases will continue to increase
rapidly and could reach 50,000 by the year 2005. In addition to the human
suffering involved, this poses a huge additional burden on the already
overstretched and under-resourced health sector, both in terms of
financial and human resource requirements. Life expectancy in Zambia has
significantly decreased as a result of increased infant mortality rates
and adult mortality rates, especially where it concerns young adults.
Between 2000 and 2010, another million Zambians may die, for a cumulative
total of 1.8 million deaths since the beginning of the epidemic. This is
an enormous mortality for a country with a total population of about 9
million and illustrates that the full brunt of HIV/AIDS will be felt in
the future. Figure 2 illustrates this point well.Figure 2Government
Response to the HIV/AIDS epidemicRecent developmentsA new institutional
framework was adopted in 2000 and the National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council was
established, guided by a Committee of Cabinet Ministers. In addition to
the Committee of Ministers and the Council, a Secretariat to the Council
is being appointed. Additionally, nine HIV/AIDS Technical Working Groups
(TWGs) have been established, which are the advisors to the Council and
Secretariat in their respective areas of expertise. The TWGs cover Mother
to Child Transmission (MTCT), Information, Education and Communication
(IEC), Tuberculosis, Home Based Care and Counseling, Monitoring &
Evaluation, Vaccines, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Resource
Mobilization. At the same time, a new Strategic Framework was launched
with the guiding principles which require the national response to
HIV/AIDS to:be people-centered and respect basic human rights of all
persons;be culturally sensitivebe priority centered on vulnerable group
and geographic priorities, promote catalytic projects and develop
integrated strategic management approaches.In addition, a government Task
Force on Orphans was formed, comprised of the Permanent Secretaries of the
Ministry of Youth, Sport and Child Development, the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry
of Health and the Ministry of Legal Affairs. The Task Force is assisted
by a technical committee comprised of various professionals from each of
the ministries. Additionally, the Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit
in the Office of the Vice President is examining its role in the care of
vulnerable children.Within the context of current government response and
the National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS, the following objectives are
recognized:Reducing the HIV/AIDS transmission mainly focusing on children,
youth, women and situations providing risk for HIV transmission and
increased vulnerability.Reducing the socioeconomic impact of HIV/AIDS on
individuals and families at the workplace, in the homes and on the whole
Zambian society.Mobilizing local and external resources to fight the
epidemic through a concerted effort at all levels including the highest
level of government.The project will, complementary to the efforts by all
partners and other Bank-financed projects, finance part of the total
government effort to address these objectives.
-2 -



2. Objectives
This project is a country program within the context of the US$500 million
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP), approved by
the Board on September 12, 2000. Reference is made to Section A. Program
purpose and Development Objective of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
(MAP) Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 20727-AFR). Zambia meets all
the eligibility criteria to qualify for participation in the Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Program for Africa.The Development Objective of the ZANARA
project is to significantly increase access to, and use of HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and impact mitigation programs with particular emphasis
on vulnerable populations (e.g. youth, women of childbearing age, orphans,
widows and widowers, child- or women headed households, people living with
HIV/AIDS and other groups at increased risk of infection or being
affected).Project purposeThe project contributes to the partnership
against HIV/AIDS in Zambia by supporting the Government's program as
articulated in the Zambia National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS. The
purpose of this program is to:1. reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS;2. mitigate
the socioeconomic impact of the disease; and3. increase access to care and
support for people infected or affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in
ZambiaThe project is selective in the support it provides and focuses on
the financing of high priority interventions for which significant funding
gaps exist. The overall project is based on a new approach for addressing
HIV/AIDS by supporting and strengthening community-based responses to the
epidemic. The Zambia National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS 2000-2003
of October 2000, is the reference document for both the program and the
project.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has taken the lead in the re-orientation of the response to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic from a medical issue to a development one. The
September 1999 launch in Lusaka of the Bank's regional AIDS strategy,
"Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa," was well received by
both the Government and the private sector, as well as by bilateral and
multilateral donors. Through the Bank's regional AIDS Campaign Team for
Africa (ACTafrica), the International Partnership Against AIDS in Africa
(IPAA) and UNAIDS, the Bank is well positioned to make regional issues and
experiences available to the project. The existing HIV/AIDS Program has
to be scaled up by mainstreaming program activities to all the line
ministries and other non-health government agencies at national, regional
and district levels, and by making better use of the capacity of community
organizations and civil society organizations such as churches, trade
unions and private businesses. From the Roundtable Discussion on HIV/AIDS
on November 21, 2000 it became evident that the Government resources and
the combined pledges by other cooperating partners could not possibly
provide for such effort and that a substantial injection of resources and
technical assistance from IDA is required to sustain the current progress
and to further reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence and its impact on socioeconomic
development. An estimate of the commitments from external funding sources
indicate that the current program is supported with financial resources at
a total of US$50 to 60 million annually. GRZ budgetary resources to
contribute to the program are expected to increase significantly through
additional funds that are being made available under the HIPC Initiative.
The total resources required to seriously address the HIV/AIDS epidemic in
Zambia are estimated at around US$560 million over three years (best
estimate scenario, NAC 1999) which includes the costs for Highly Active
-3 -



Anti-Retroviral Treatment (HAART). After donor pledges there would still
be a financing gap of approximately US$300 million, or US$150 million if
HAART is excluded from the estimated costs. The IDA funds will contribute
to filling the funding gap, but would not take precedence over grant funds
that may become available.In order for the IDA resources not to compete
with grant funding, there is need for a flexible approach and good
coordination. For this purpose the establishment a Joint HIV/AIDS
Financing Committee is under preparation, as a platform for joint
financing and other implementation arrangements. The project will be
based on annual workplans to allow for timely changes in the light of
grants forthcoming with donor coordination by the NAC facilitated under
their component.
4. Description
GeneralThe project will support Zambia's response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic
in the context of the principles and objectives reflected in the Zambia
National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Strategic Framework 2001-2003, and in close
collaboration with a wide variety of implementing, coordinating and
supporting partners. The support to implementing agencies will involve
public as well as private sector and religious organizations, with a main
focus on community driven initiatives. The coordination of the national
response will be supported through the National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council
(NAC), its Secretariat and the decentralized entities charged with
coordination at the district level. Flexibility in both project design
and project implementation is essential in view of the evolving character
of Zambia's multi-sectoral approach to the HIV epidemic, and the evolving
financial support from other collaborating partners. In the same context
the establishment of a Joint HIV/AIDS Financing Committee will be crucial
as it will provide the platform for agreed adjustments during the project
cycle and for joint financing arrangements, assuring that IDA funds do not
replace grant funding from other partners. Component 1: Support for
Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS). Financial support under this
component will serve to support communities in responding to the epidemic,
either directly through financing activities by community based
organizations or through the facilitation of interventions by NGOs,
Religious Organizations or Organizations of People Living with HIV/AIDS.
Component 2: Support to the National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council and
Secretariat. This component will provide support to the National
HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council (NAC) as the highest authority to coordinate the
national response to HIV/AIDS/STD/TB. Its Secretariat will provide
technical guidance and implement Council decisions emanating from the
mandate and deliberations of the Council. The Council and Secretariat do
not constitute an implementing agency but will play a facilitating and
catalytic role. Particular attention will be reserved for support to the
Co-ordination and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) role of the
Secretariat. As a major challenge within the context of a multi-sectoral
program with multiple, and very diverse implementing partners, the
monitoring of all HIV/AIDS related activities by the Council and
Secretariat is a crucial issue and the project will finance activities
related to capacity building in this area. The establishment of M&E
systems and mechanisms, as well as the conduct of specific studies for
data gathering, analysis and dissemination would be supported under this
component of the project. Component 3: Support to the Line Ministries.
With the specific purpose of mainstreaming HIV/AIDS-related activities
into the workprograms of all line ministries, this component will support
- 4 -



sector-specific responses to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The HIV/AIDS Focal
Person in each ministry is expected to facilitate the elaboration of
annual workplans that address the internal and external impact of the
epidemic. Component 4: Program Administration. A Program
Administration Unit (PAU) will be responsible for the administration and
management of project activities. Reports on resource use, implementation
progress and procurement plans will be consolidated by this unit. In
addition, the PAU will oversee the financial management, procurement and
disbursement functions of the project and be responsible for the day to
day interactions with the World Bank on project administration. The PAU
will initially be established in the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development but, during the course of project implementation, the
Government and IDA will assess whether MOFED as the parent institution of
the PAU remains the most appropriate. The unit will be established with
the specific understanding that it may accommodate the administrative and
project management requirements of cooperating partners.
Component 1 - CRAIDS     USD 16.7 million
Component 2 - National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council    USD 2.5 million
Component 3 - Line Ministries    USD 17.3 million
Component 4 - Program Administration    USD 1.5 million
Unallocated - USD 2.0 million
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 4.00
IDA                      40.00
Total Project Cost       44
6. Implementation
Institutional arrangementsThe Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
(MOFED) will be the custodian of the proposed project. The Permanent
Secretary Budget and Economic Affairs of the MOFED will be the overall
controlling officer for resources made available for the project. MOFED
will provide for a Program Administration Unit (PAU) consisting of a
Program Administrator, a Financial Controller, a Program Administration
Officer, a Procurement Officer and supporting staff. While this unit will
initially service the administrative requirements of this IDA-financed
project, it is envisaged that projects financed by other cooperating
partners may be accommodated by the same unit. At mid-term, GRZ, IDA and
the development partners will assess the appropriateness of these
institutional arrangements.The underlying principles behind the
institutional arrangements proposed for the project are simple and aim to
:1. As much as possible, avoid creating new institutional structures and
use existing means for coordination and project implementation.2. Support
the National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council to carry out its institutional
mandate of program coordination and monitoring & evaluation.3. Support
agreed channels to provide efficient flow of funds to the implementing
agencies.Project implementationThe project will finance a series of
HIV/AIDS plans presented by Community Based Organizations,
Non-Governmental Organizations, the National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council and
line ministries. Planned activities for the first year of project
implementation will be integrated into an annual Project Implementation
Plan (PIP).The project will assist in building capacity in weaker
CBOs/NGOs and ministries for planning and implementing the AIDS control
activities. The project geographic coverage will gradually expand to more
- 5-



include more communities as the implementing capacity gets stronger. The
NAC Secretariat and line ministries will annually present HIV/AIDS plans
for the following fiscal year. The NAC will review such plans and, when
needed, will provide guidance to improve such programs.Communities will
organize themselves, and with collaboration with Community Based
Organizations or Non- Governmental Organizations if necessary, prepare and
present proposals for sub-projects to be funded by the CRAIDS component
under ZAMSIF. District AIDS Task Forces will appraise the merit of each
of them and make a recommendation on whether it should be financed.
Sub-projects over USD 10,000 will need the appraisal review by the NAC
Secretariat. The regular reports on these sub-project audits and
evaluations will feed back into project annual reviews. The Project
Implementation Plan and ZAMSIF's Operational Manual describe in detail the
specifics of the project's institutional and implementation arrangements
with regards to the CRAIDS component.Project monitoring The overall aim of
the HIV/AIDS project is to reduce the spread of HIV and mitigate its
impact. The short term objective of the project is to increase the use of
HIV prevention, care and impact mitigation services by targeted vulnerable
groups through activities under the four project components. During the
pre-appraisal mission, a logical framework was finalized for the project,
and joint performance indicators were agreed upon for the project
inputs/output and also for the outcomes/impact according to established
guidelines. A detailed performance monitoring plan was developed on the
basis of the logical framework and the selected indicators. The project
will support the establishment of an M&E system within the NAC Secretariat
to perform the critical task of project monitoring and evaluation during
project implementation. The system will provide valuable information for
project management, and for other stakeholders and external parties.
Procurement arrangementsThe National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council, line
ministries and districts will procure works, goods and services in
relation to the respective activities, in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in
particular Section 3.15, Community Participation in Procurement.
Consulting services by firms, organizations, or individuals financed by
IDA will be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999).Communities will use the
Bank's simplified Procurement and Disbursement Procedures for
Community-Based Investments to procure goods or services needed to
implement their respective community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives under the
CRAIDS component. When these activities cost less than USD 30,000
equivalent per community per approved proposal, communities will use
"local shopping" as the standard procurement method.Financial
managementThe Bank standard procedures for accounting and auditing will
apply to the funds disbursed to either public or private institutions, as
set out in Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by The
World Bank. Under the supervision of the Permanent Secretary (MOFED) as
the controlling officer, the Finance Manager will be responsible for
ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures under the
project will be acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and if
applicable other cooperating partners. The Financial Management System
(FMS) objective will be to help management in spending the resources
aimed at ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness by reaching the
intended beneficiaries and achieving the set objectives. Specifically,
- 6 -



the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and
reliable financial information that will allow management to plan,
implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress or lack of
it.
7. Sustainability
The Government of Zambia has demonstrated its firm commitment in the fight
against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. This high level commitment has provided an
encouraging environment for the fight against the epidemic. The new
institutional framework establishing the National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council
provides the focal point for coordination of efforts at the national
level. The National Strategic Framework consolidates HIV prevention and
mitigation efforts within the context of a national strategy. This
project will build on the existing frameworks, along with other partners,
to support the prevention of HIV and the mitigation of its impact. The
main thrust behind the National Strategic Framework is the requirement for
integrated, people centered, culturally sensitive and prioritized
approaches. The combination of the community oriented multi-sector
approach, a strong high level government commitment, substantial capacity
building, modest financial requirements, and the willingness of the donor
community to enter into the partnership against AIDS in Zambia make for
the reasonable expectation of the project's sustainability being
considered likely in the short to medium term.The proposed program will be
used as a leverage to mobilize additional resources. Expanding the
ownership for the responsibility to respond to the challenges that the
HIV/AIDS epidemic poses is at the core of the project and will create
additional capacity and spread the budgetary burden over a larger number
of sources of financing. The capacity of the program to demonstrate
result in both aspects will be crucial for the sustainability over an
extended period of time.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Political leadership and commitment is a key issue in mobilizing national
and donor resources for the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The
successful short- term control of the HIV epidemic in Thailand arose
because of the political leadership driven by good epidemiological data,
effective programs and vibrant activist civil society participation.
Vulnerability factors are key drivers of the epidemic. The HIV/AIDS
epidemic is driven by a combination of poverty, gender disparities and
information asymmetry provide very fertile soil for HIV to grow and
blossom. Therefore, any attempt at controlling the epidemic without
meaningfully addressing the vulnerability factors will be unlikely to
succeed in the long term. Community participation as a process of
empowerment is crucial. The communities affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic
find themselves facing multifaceted challenges, and with very thin
resources and capacity to respond. In addition, short term focused
strategies may not meet the need for long term rehabilitation and healing
in the communities. Community participation engages the people in a
partnership to fight the epidemic. With external resources and the
building of local capacity, the communities will be more empowered in
their response to HIV/AIDS. Such a response is also more likely to be
sustainable in the long term. The Zambia HIV/AIDS project will commit
about 45% of the credit resources towards supporting community driven
initiatives. Centralized Coordination of Community Driven Initiatives is
an effective way to channel resources directly to the communities. A lot
- 7 -



has been learned in Zambia with regards to the financing of community
based initiatives over the last few decades. The Government itself has
provided public funds through the Social Recovery Project (SRP I and II)
as matching grants to communities for community-managed development
activities since 1990. At the same time several other programs, financed
locally and through external support, also provided funds for community
activities. In most cases these programs operated in parallel fashion and
without adequate coordination. In order to minimize the potential
inefficiencies and confusion emerging from the uncoordinated approach to
community-driven initiatives, the Government has taken the measure of
gradually channelling the community components of its sector programs
through a unified delivery mechanism, the Zambia Social Investment Fund
(ZAMSIF). Multi-sectoral orientation. It has been widely recognized that
the HIV/AIDS epidemic extends far and beyond the narrowly defined health
sector. The multi-dimensional nature of the epidemic and its impacts
warrant a change in paradigm from a biomedical to a development one. In
this context, the multi-sectoral approach in HIV prevention, care and
mitigation offer best chances of success. Focus on knowledge building and
evidence based interventions. When compared to the HIV/AIDS situation in
the developed countries, there is a huge deficit of knowledge, best
practices and resources on which to build strong evidence based prevention
and care interventions. There is still lack of consensus on areas such as
preventing Parent- To-Child-Transmission, Anti-RetroViral Therapy, Use of
Vaginal microbicides, STI treatment and prophylaxis and treatment of
opportunistic infections.The indigenous knowledge and practices could also
be complementary in the efforts to fight HIV/AIDS. In Mozambique, the
involvement of traditional knowledge workers (healers) in awareness
creating in a psychologically and socially sensitive area like sexuality
had higher impact at lower cost. In Tanzania, the integration of local
healers in AIDS prevention and mitigation strategies increased the
effectiveness of the approach and access for poorer families. Along
similar lines, the Bank is currently piloting the use of traditional
channels of communication ("griot" network) to deliver culturally
congruent messages in prevention of HIV/AIDS in West Africa. Role clarity
between the NAC and implementing agencies.    There are experiences from
other countries which show that channeling significant resources to
institutions that were set up to coordinate and monitor project
activities, introduces a temptation for those institutions to venture into
implementation. In the Zambia situation, the National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB
Council has been set up explicitly to coordinate and monitor the national
response to the epidemic and not to implement. Procurement and
Disbursement. The emergency nature of the response to HIV/AIDS requires
simple, rapid and focused implementation arrangements for project
activities. Lack of familiarity with IDA procurement and disbursement
procedures could hinder smooth project implementation. In this project,
such lack of familiarity is not a major problem because most activities
will be channeled through the ZAMSIF. The procurement that will be done
outside ZAMSIF will be handled through a centralized procurement office,
located in MOFED. This cental procurement office has proven capacity on
IDA procurement. In terms of disbursement, the current Zambia health
project has suffered from a long back log of payment applications. Such
experience is very unlikely when the processing of payment applications
are handled by MOFED which has greater capacity both in terms of human
resources and in experience with IDA. Recognized "Best Practices" in
Zambia, designated as catalytic projects, tend to have common
- 8 -



characteristics that include local ownership, public-private cooperation,
cultural sensitivity and limited geographical coverage. The project will
encourage sub-projects along similar lines and assist NAC develop an
appropriate approach to scaling up the various interventions and
increasing geographical coverage. It has been suggested that the role of
the Ministry of Health in responding to this epidemic has been quite
limited (Joint Health Appraisal Mission Report, 2001) and that NGO and CBO
led initiatives provide for the majority of successes recorded.Staff
Turnover Threatens Implementation Capacity.    One lesson that has emerged
from the HSSP project is that staff turnover can seriously diminish
capacity to implement the project. While this is often a problem with IDA
projects, it seems to be more strongly the case in the Zambian context,
perhaps due to a more limited number of staff with experience working with
IDA projects. Nevertheless, this has been one of the factors for severely
stalled implementation within the health sector, and particularly with
regards to procurement staff, efforts will need to be made to insulate
ZANARA from this risk.Commitment to Monitoring & Evaluation, Scheduled
Assessments. Another lesson from HSSP that is particularly relevant with
regards to this project is the importance of the Government's firm
commitment to M&E and the agreed schedule of assessments/appraisals. The
health project, much like ZANARA, was designed to be very flexible in
order to response to the most urgent needs in a dynamic sector. In order
for both the Government and IDA to be able to guide the project in this
relatively more fluid scenario, it is essential that the planned
monitoring & evaluation take place and that the findings be jointly
reviewed in a formal, periodic meeting. When this commitment weakened in
the context of the health project, key data stopped being released to
partners and the annual reviews were discontinued, the overall program
became directionless and stalled.Good Donor Co-ordination, as experienced
in the health sector within the context of a sector-wide approach, can
significantly reduce the transaction costs to the government related to
the management of externally funded programs. Good Governance is crucial
for the achievement of impact and for sustained support to the program.
Especially in countries like Zambia with a high degree of donor
dependency, such sustained support is of critical importance for the
HIV/AIDS program to have significant impact.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is not expected to culminate in any
major adverse environmental effects. Possible environmental risks include
inappropriate handling and disposal of hazardous medical waste, including
sharp needles, and especially inadequate management of the respective
disposal sites in urban or peri-urban areas, where domestic and medical
waste may be mixed and where scavenging is common. The project will
finance training of health care professionals, of traditional birth
attendants and traditional healers, and of community workers delivering
care to HIV/AIDS patients on proper safety measures for waste disposal.
This training will include instruction on appropriate separation,
transport and disposal of hazardous medical waste. The project will
finance the revision of existing health sector guidelines on appropriate
management of hazardous medical waste at medical facilities and at
disposal sites to include the relevant dispositions regarding HIV/AIDS,
and on occupational safety guidelines for health care workers.The project
- 9-



is not primarily designed to supply drugs and antibiotics for Sexually
Transmitted Infections, Tuberculosis or HIV. In the event that such drugs
are deemed necessary and the government requests to reallocate funds for
such purpose, appropriate mechanisms will be put in place to ensure that
drugs are appropriately used, and that resistance development is monitored
through surveillance. Microbial and viral resistance to antibiotics and
antiviral drugs could pose a challenge to the micro-environment, if such
drugs are not used properly. The potential contribution of the ZANARA
project to this risk is considered minimal at this time.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Albertus Voetberg
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: Nairobi, Kenya (254 2 260 451)
Fax: Nairobi, Kenya (254 2 260 384)
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending July 13, 2001.
- 10 -



