Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25034-ZA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.7 MILLION
US$ 42 MILLION (EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE
ZAMBIA NATIONAL RESPONSE TO HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE
MULTI-COUNTRY AIDS PROGRAM FOR AFRICA (MAP 2) (APL)
December 11, 2002
Human Development 1
Country Department 3
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 11, 2002)
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha
ZMK 3988 = US$1.00
US$0.000251696 = ZMK 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACTafrica            Aids campaign Team for Africa
ADB                  African Development Bank
AG                   Auditor General
ART                  Anti-Retroviral Therapy
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CBI                  Community based Investments
CBO                  Church based Organization
CQ                   Consultants' Qualifications
CRAIDS               Community Response to HIV/AIDS
DATF                 Distnct AIDS Task Force
DffD                 Department for Intemational Development (United Kingdom)
DGA                  Development Grant Agreement
DIF                  District Investment Fund
EC                   European Commission
FMAPM                Financial Management & Accounting Procedures Manual
FMR                  Financial Monitoring Report
FMS                  Financial Management System
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GPN                  General Procurement Notice
GRZ                  Government of Zambia
GTZ                  Deutsch Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Cooperation)
HAART                Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Treatment
HCC                  Home based Care & Counseling
HIPC                 Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HIV/AIDS             Human Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
IAPSO                Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (United Nations
IC                   Individual Consulting
ICB                  Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                  Intemational Development Association
IEC                  Information, Education & Communication
JFC                  Joint Financing AIDS Committee
LCMS                 Living Conditions Monitorng Survey
M&E                  Monitoring & Evaluation
MAP                  Multi-country H1V/AIDS Program
MOE                  Ministry of Education
MoFNP                Ministry of Finance & National Planning
MoH                  Ministry of Health
MTCT                 Mother to Child Transmission
NAC                  National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council
NAPCP                National AIDS Prevention & Control Program
NASF                 National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Strategic Framework (2001-2003)
NGO                  Non-governmental Organization
OAG                  Office of the Auditor General
01                   Opportunistic Infections
OM                   Operational Manual
OPLA                 Organizations of People Living with HIV/AIDS
OVC                  Orphans & Vulnerable Children



PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PAU                 Programme Administration Unit
PEP                 Post Exposure Prophylaxis
PIM                  Project Implementation Manual
PIP                 Project Implementation Plan
PLHA                Persons Living with HIV/AIDS
PMTCT               Prevention of Mother to Child Transmnission
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PRGF                Poverty Reduction & Growth Facility
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS                Quality & Cost based Selection
RM                  Resource Mobilization
SDR                 Standard Drawing Rights
SOE                 Statements of Expenditure
STD                 Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TB                  Tuberculosis
TWG                 Technical Working Groups
UNAIDS              United Nations Joint Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNDP                United Nations Development Business
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA               United Nations Population Fund
UNIHCR              United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF              United Nations Childrens' Fund
USAID               United States Agency for Intemational Development
USD                 U.S. Dollars
VCT                 Voluntary Counseling & Testing
WHO                 World Health Organization
ZAMSIF              Zambia Social Investment Fund
ZANARA              Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS
ZDHS                Zambia Demographic Health Survey (1998)
ZMK                 Zambian Kwacha
Vice President:     Pamela Cox (acting)
Country Director:      Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:      Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader:       Albertus Voetberg






ZAMBIA
ZAMBIA NATIONAL RESPONSE TO HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                      3
3. Key performance indicators                                                         4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 9
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  12
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     15
3. Benefits and target population                                                    15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         25
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        26
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               27
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  30
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       30
E. Summnary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          31
2. Financial                                                                         32
3. Technical                                                                         32
4. Institutional                                                                     33
5. Environmental                                                                     34
6. Social                                                                            35
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                37
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                                 38
2. Critical risks                                                                 38
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                 40
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                        40
2. Other                                                                          41
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                     41
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                    41
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                      43
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                47
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                     55
Annex 4: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                   56
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                           59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                   60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                 73
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                               74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                              75
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                        76
Annex 11: Supervision Strategy                                                       78
Annex 12: CRAIDS Project Implementation Manual (Overview)                            82
MAP(S)
IBRD 26792R



ZAMBIA
Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH1
Date: December 11, 2002                           Team Leader: Albertus Voetberg
Sector Manager/Director: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka     Sector(s): Health (77%), Central government
Country Manager/Director: Yaw Ansu                 administration (11%), Other social services (9%),
Project ID: P003248                                Sub-national government administration (3%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)   Theme(s): Fighting communicable diseases (P), Civic
engagement, participation and community driven
development (P), Social risk mitigation (S), Gender (S)
Ji  !1t  '*   [1t;   A     ,  ' ,   ~~Estimated'j  <"rc~,1l,v1
,APL            indicative Flhaindh9I,Plai, '  '  ldolementa'tion, Period       Borrowoer?,:-,
._____               .            ^,,,,,(Binkf'Vm). .
IBRD             Others       Total    Commitment    Closing
US$ m      %      US$ m       US$ m         Date       Date
APL I
Loan/
Credit                      =      _
Total        0.00               0.00        0.00              l
[ Loan       [] Credit   [X] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 42
Flia0qln Pl1an,.5,US$m):  Source,                            Local         Foreign,,,    . Tptal,,
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                              4.00           0.00          4.00
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                                         32.80           9.20         42.00
Total:                                                         36.80           9.20         46.00
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND NATIONAL PLANNING
Address: P.O. Box 50062 Ridgeway, 15101 Chimanga Rd., Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: Mr Francis Mbewe
Tel: 260 1 250544           Fax: 260 1 251078            Email: finm@zamnet.zm
Other Agency(ies):
Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)
Address: P 0 Box 31559, Kambendekela House, Dedan Kimathi Road, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: Mr. Cosmas Mambo, Programme Director
Tel: 260 1 226201/226207           Fax: 260 1 226195           Email: cosmas@zamsif.org.zm
National HIV/AIDS/STIITB Council (NAC)
Address: 315 Independence Ave., P.O. Box 38718, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: Dr. Bolla, Director-General
Tel: 260 1 255044 / 255092          Fax: 260 1 253881           Email: Aidsec@zamnet.zm



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY ;       -2003      2004       2005     -2006      2008
Annual     6.00       9.00     10.00      10.00      7.00
Cumulative     6.00     15.00     25.00      35.00     42.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 02/28/2003  Expected closing date: 02/28/2008
OCS IPL PAD F< r.  h 202
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This project is a country program within the context of The Second Multi-Country HIVIAIDS Program
for the Africa Region [(MAP2) (APL) (report no. P7497 AFR)], which was approved on February 7,
2002. Reference is made to Section HII, Part A. Program Objectives and Part B. Program Description of
the report. Only key features are highlighted below which are relevant to the Zambia National Response
to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA) Project and to the HIV/AIDS situation in Zambia.
Zambia meets all the eligibility criteria to qualify for participation in the MAP, as summarized below:
MAP eligibility for country participation     How eligibility criteria were met by Zambia
Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to  The National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS
HIV/AIDS. This would typically be demonstrated by a  elaborated in consultative manner with broad
coherent national, multi-sectoral strategy and action plan  involvement and support from all major
for HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment which has  stakeholders. The final version of the Strategic
been developed through a participatory approach using  Framework was officially presented at the
social assessment techniques. It could also be    November 21, 2000 Roundtable Discussion on
demonstrated by having a participatory strategic planning  HIV/AIDS.
process underway with a road map and timetable.
A high level coordinating body such as a national  The Government has established the National
HIV/AIDS council or equivalent has been established to  HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council; the Secretariat is being
oversee the implementation of the strategy and action  established and recruitment is wel advanced. Broad
plan. This body should encompass broad representation  representation of the public and private sector,
of key stakeholders, including persons living with  including religious organizations, non-governmental
HIV/AIDS.                                         organizations (NGOs), the Network of People Living
with HIV/AIDS, the business society, and other civil
society organizations is assured.
Government has agreed to use exceptional          The Government has agreed to place project
implementation arrangements to accelerate project  administration function in the Ministry of Finance &
implementation, such as channeling grant funds for  National Planning (MOFNP), and program
HIV/AIDS activities directly to communities, and  administration for community organizations to an
out-sourcing financial management and procurement  existing social fund in order to enhance efficiency
where necessary.                                  and effectiveness, and to accelerate program
implementation.
Government has agreed to use and fund multiple    The Project supports the implementation of the
implementation agencies, especially community-based  National Strategic Framework on
and NGOs organizations.                           HIV/AIDS/STD/TB which hinges on the
involvement and support of multiple implementing
agencies from all sectors and layers of society.
(a) Project purpose
The project contributes to the partnership against HIV/AIDS in Zambia by supporting the Government's
program as articulated in the Zambia National Strategic Framework on HIVIAIDS 2001-2003 (NASF).
- 3 -



The purpose of this program is to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, to mitigate the socio-econornic impact
of the disease, and to increase access to care and support for people infected or affected by the
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia. The project is selective in the support it provides and focuses on the
financing of high priority interventions for which significant funding gaps exist. The overall project is
based on a new approach for addressing HIV/AIDS by supporting and strengthening community-based
responses to the epidemic. The NASF of October 2000, is the reference document for both the program
and the project. Further development of and amendments to this document are not unlikely as the
multi-sectoral nature of Zambia's response to the epidemic evolves.
(b) Project development objective
The project development objective of the ZANARA project is to significantly increase access to, and use
of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation programs with particular emphasis on vulnerable
populations (e.g. youth, women of childbearing age, orphans, widows and widowers, child or
women-headed households, people living with HIV/AIDS and other groups at increased risk of infection
or being affected). The details of each sub-objective are given in Annex 1.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Ideally, incidence data on HIV/AIDS should be used to monitor its progression in the short term.
However, the availability of useful incidence data for HIV is very limited in Zambia. Prevalence data are
a partial substitute for monitoring the disease's impact, but are fraught with difficulties in showing
significant changes over a short period. On balance, the best available indicator is the prevalence rate of
LlfV among the age group 15-19 years since it is an impact indicator closer to the real incidence rate and
also more likely to be responsive to any behavioral changes resulting from the interventions. While a
more extensive list of indicators appears in the logical framework (Annex 1), the project will contribute
to the goal of reducing the transmission of HIV in Zambia as described in the NASF and reflected in the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and
Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) documents, and will be evaluated by the use of indicators
outlined below. Baseline data for these indicators are mostly already available and all will be available
by project effectiveness. Meanwhile, interim indicators will be agreed with the Government at project
launch or shortly thereafter.
(a) Input indicators
1. The number of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation community initiatives funded
by 2008
2. The number and availability, in each district, of LILV counseling and testing services by 2008
3. The number of trainers of trainers trained by 2008
4. The number of community initiatives funded that specifically address gender issues
5. The percentage of public sector institutions (primary schools, secondary schools, universities and
technical training institutions) with HIV/AIDS prevention education integrated into their
curricula
6. The number of districts with functioning HIV Support groups
7. The number of technical guidelines produced and disseminated to care providers
8. The number of operational research studies on HIV prevention conducted and reported
(b) Output indicators
1. Number of awareness activities conducted by line ministries
2. Number of peer educators and counselors in HIV/AIDS prevention and care trained
3. The percentage of ministries with budget line items for HIV/AIDS-related programs
4. The percentage of ministries budget for HIV/AIDS activities that are actually funded
- 4-



5. The percentage of submitted proposals for community based activities funded by the project
(c) Outcome indicators
1. Median age at first sex increased by one year among both males and females by 2008
2. Reported condom use at last sex encounter with non-regular partner increased from 30 to 45 %
for males and from 17 to 30% for females by 2008
3. Percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who are mothers or pregnant with their first child
reduced from 59% to 45% by 2008
4. Number of research activities focusing on gender
5. Primary school enrollment and completion rate among orphans and vulnerable children will have
increased by 10% in beneficiary communities supported under Part(a) of the project by 2008
(d) Impact indicators
1. Reduced HIV prevalence rates among young people aged 15 to 19 years by 2008
2. Reduced HLV prevalence among antenatal women aged less than 20 years by 2008
3. The national adult HIV seroprevalence begins to decline by 2008
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19889     Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/17/99
The overall objective of the Bank's work in Zambia is to increase the income and living standards for the
vast majority of Zambians who are poor. The short term objective of the last CAS is to sustain positive
growth rates and show that economic reforms are beginning to bring tangible, measurable benefits to the
Zambian people. Sadly, the current HIV epidemic will seriously undermine the achievement of both the
short term as well as the longer term objectives.
The last CAS explicitly stated that recent gains from years of policy reforms and the promise of
sustainable growth and development may not be realized unless the HIV/AIDS epidemic is
controlled. Due to the implication of this great threat to the country's long-term development,
one of the main objectives of the Zambia Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IMF/IDA
Staff Assessment (Zambia PRSP, approved April 2002) is to incorporate the use of crosscutting
policies for HIV/AIDS, gender and environment. This was further endorsed by the Board of
Governors through their approval of the 13th replenishment for IDA in support of more
aggressive poverty reduction strategies (approved September 2002). One of the key features of
this resport is the expanded use of grants to finance HIV/AIDS programs and other emergency
disasters in IDA countries. Under the IDA 13 guidelines, it is expected that such grants may
finance up to 100 percent of national HIV/ADS projects/programs in IDA-only countries. Since
Zambia is an IDA-only country, the ZANARA project qualifies for grant financing under this
criterion. Subsequently, the main strategy of the forthcoming CAS (anticipated September 2003),
will be to work in tandem with GRZ and its partners to support a multi-sectoral, multi-donor
HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment program, as well as to strengthen related activities within
the ongoing portfolio.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) The HIV/AIDS situation in Zambia
Zambia is one of the countries that has been strongly affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. With the first
case reported in 1984, infection rates have increased rapidly to a level whereby 19-20 per cent of the
-5 -



adult population (15-49 years) was estimated to be HIV positive. The epidemic has since stabilized
around that high prevalence rate (see Figure 1). Of the approximately 870,000 Zambians who are living
with I-UV (by the end of 1999), 40,000 are children aged 0-14 years. Of particular concem is HIV
prevalence among young women, with 17 percent of women aged 15-24 being infected versus 8 percent
of men in the same age group, reflecting their specific vulnerability in sexual relationships.
- 6 -



Figure 1
Zambia: Estimated HIV Prevalence, Ages
15 to 49, 1992-1998
20 
~16
i 2
A.   4
0
1992    '993   1994    1995   1996    1997   1998
Promising trends in the HIV prevalence among pregnant women aged 15 to 19 are beginning to emerge.
Studies have indicated and confirmed that the HIV infection rates among this particular group in four
Lusaka sites have declined from 28 percent in 1993 to 15 percent in 1998. The reason for this welcome
decline has been attributed to behavior change among the urban youth. More studies are however
required to fully understand this phenomenon. The downward trend suggests that momentum is building
for behavior changes that will impede HIV transmission among this age group. Such a momentum,
however, should not give room for complacency because the prevalence rate is still high and may worsen.
(b) The impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on Zambian society
A relatively large number of impact studies have been carried out in Zambia, and elsewhere,
documenting the details and extent of the impact the H1V/AIDS epidemic has on individuals infected or
affected, their households, firms and businesses, whole sectors, and the economy. The overall conclusion
that all productive efforts, whether applied to econornic activity, subsistence, or service delivery, are
severely affected, is driven by the fact that HIV/AIDS affects mainly people in their most productive
years.
With the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on all aspects of development, it compromises all other measures
intended to reduce poverty. Still worse, several studies have shown how effectively HIV/AIDS can drive
households into poverty when their assets (e.g., livestock) are sold to cover the costs of medical care, or
when the available labor force becomes insufficient to tend to the necessary agricultural activities.
Measures to reduce poverty among already vulnerable groups are likely to fail in the current
environment where HIV prevalence is high. Therefore, prevention and mitigation of HIV/AIDS is
central to an effective poverty-reduction strategy, while poverty reduction in itself is needed to mitigate
the socio-economic impact that the epidemic imposes on society.
-7-



Poverty provides the conditions for the spread of IV/AIDS. The impact of poverty on women drives
them to adopt coping mechanisms that may include increased risk exposure (e.g., commercial sex).
Poverty also limits the scope for long-term development prospects, thereby reducing the barriers for
taking otherwise unacceptable risks. The limited access to formal education of this increasingly
substantial cohort of children, particularly girls, may well provide fertile ground for poverty and
increased risk of exposure to HIV.
Of particular concern is the situation of vulnerable children in Zambia. The effects of poverty are
especially felt among the children, and their suffering has been called Zambia's silent crisis, as much of it
is contained in the confines of households and communities (Orphans and Vulnerable Children, A
Situation Analysis, Zambia 1999). There is little doubt that the HIV/AIDS epidemic has significantly
worsened their situation. Already in 1999 there were an estimated 520,000 children orphaned as a result
of AIDS in Zambia. That number is estimated to continue to rise to 895,000 by 2009 and 974,000 by
2014.
Since the advent of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia, tuberculosis (TB) infection rates have increased
nearly five-fold, from a fairly constant rate of 100 new cases per 100,000 population in 1984 to over 500
new cases per 100,000 population in 1996. The number of new cases will continue to increase rapidly
and could reach 50,000 by the year 2005. In addition to the human suffering involved, this poses a huge
additional burden on the already overstretched and under-resourced health sector, both in terms of
financial and human resource requirements.
Life expectancy in Zambia has significantly decreased as a result of increased infant mortality rates and
adult mortality rates, especially where it concerns young adults. Between 2000 and 2010, another million
Zambians may die, for a cumulative total of 1.8 mnillion deaths since the beginning of the epidemic. This
is an enormous mortality for a country with a total population of about 9 million and illustrates that the
full brunt of H[V/AIDS will be felt in the future. Figure 2 illustrates this point well.
Figure 2,
Zambia: Cumulative AIDS Deaths
1980 - 2010
2,000,000
1,785,000
1,500,000 -_
1,000,000- -
500,000      II
0
1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010
-8 -



(c) Government's response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic
History. The first case'of HIV/AIDS in Zambia was diagnosed in 1984. The National AIDS Prevention
and Control Program (NAPCP) was formally established in 1986 with assistance from the WHO Global
Program on AIDS. Several national plans were developed to face the challenge of curbing the epidemic,
and in 1993, with the launch of the Second Medium Term Plan (MTP II, 1994-1998) it was
acknowledged that a much more intensive and multi-sectoral response needed to be mounted. By that
time, the proportion of the adult population infected with the virus had risen to approximately 18 per
cent. The current government interventions and activities have been guided by the MTP II, and
consistent with the sectoral impact of HIV/AIDS, Zambia has embarked upon a multi-sectoral response
for the prevention of new infections and the mitigation of the impact of the epidemic. This has been
pursued by stimulating and catalyzing government, private sector, NGOs, and church organizations
participation in the response.
Recent developments. A new institutional framework was adopted in 2000 and the National
HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Council (NAC) was established, guided by a Committee of Cabinet Ministers. In
addition to the Committee of Ministers, which provides oversight function, and the Council, a Secretariat
to the Council is also being appointed. The Council consists of eight Permanent Secretaries from the line
ministries, NGO and church-based organization (CBO) representatives, network of PLWHA, Business
Coalition, a Youth Organization and five other appointed members. Nine HIV/AIDS Technical Working
Groups (TWGs) have been established, which are the advisors to the Council and Secretariat in their
respective areas of expertise. The TWGs cover Mother to Child Transmission (MTCT), Information,
Education and Communication (IEC), Tuberculosis, Home Based Care and Counseling, Monitoring &
Evaluation, Vaccines, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Resource Mobilization. At the same time, a
new Strategic Framework was launched with the guiding principles which require the national response
to HIV/AIDS to:
1. be people centered and respect basic human rights of all persons,
2. be culturally sensitive,
3. be priority centered on vulnerable group and geographic priorities, and
4. promote catalytic projects and develop integrated strategic management approaches.
In addition, a government Task Force on Orphans was formed, comprised of the Permanent Secretaries of
the Ministry of Sport, Youth, and Child Development, the Ministry of Community Development and
Social Welfare, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Legal Affairs. The
Task Force is assisted by a technical committee comprised of various professionals from each of the
ministries. Additionally, the Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit in the Office of the Vice
President is examining its role in the care of vulnerable children.
Within the context of current government response and the National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS
the following objectives are recognized.
1. Reducing the HIV/AIDS transmission mainly focusing on children, youth, women and situations
providing risk for HIV transmission and increased vulnerability.
2. Reducing the socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS on individuals and families at the workplace,
in the homes and on the whole Zambian society.
3. Mobilizing local and external resources to fight the epidemic through a concerted effort at all
levels including the highest level of government.
The project will, complementary to the efforts by all partners and other Bank-financed projects, finance
part of the total government effort to address these objectives.
-9-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sectoral background. With the recognition of the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on every sector
and all development programs, it has become evident that the existing sectoral responses need to be
harmonized. The need for an institution that has a multi-sectoral agenda to channel resources for the
response to H1V/AIDS to the various implementing partners has led to the choice of the Ministry of
Finance as the responsible institution for financial management of resources made available under the
project. The NAC, currently established under the Ministry of Health (MOH) as its parent institution, is
a new and emerging institution, mandated to coordinate and monitor the national response to HIV/AIDS.
With the understanding that the NAC will not be involved in the implementation aspects of the national
program, the project will support the NAC to carry out their mandate while assigning responsibilities for
implementation and financial accounting directly to the implementing institutions. Some sectors have
proceeded with significant decentralization efforts but direct interaction with communities often remains
limited in scope and limited to sectoral issues. To provide for a more active interface between the
government and community level Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) was created and has
established itself as multi-sectoral and demand driven institution. The project recognizes the
comparative advantage of ZAMSIF in channeling resources to communities, religious organizations and
NGOs. Finally, in order for the IDA resources not to compete with grant funding, there is need for a
flexible approach and good coordination. For this purpose the establishment of a Joint HIV/AIDS
Financing Committee (JFC) is under preparation, as a platform for joint financing and other
implementation arrangements. The project will be based on annual workplans to allow for timely
changes in the light of grants forthcoming with donor coordination by the NAC facilitated under their
component.
Ensuring an effective and coordinated response combined with rapid institutional and
organizational development. The Zambia National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS is the key
national document that defines the national priorities and strategic goals for accelerating and expanding
the HIV/AIDS Response in Zambia. It embraces a large number of NGOs and fourteen key sectoral
Ministries in developing the new response. These Ministries include Health; Education; Agriculture and
Cooperatives; Sport, Youth and Child Development; Community Development and Social Welfare;
Information and Broadcasting Services; Defense; Home Affairs; Labour and Social Security; Commerce,
Trade and Industry; Science, Technology and Vocational Training; Finance and National Planning; Local
Government and Housing; Energy and Water Development which have developed sector-specific
strategic plans for scaling-up. Within this Strategic Framework, sector priorities are identified and
include a number of "catalytic projects" that seek to scale up HIV/AIDS interventions both in terms of
geographic and sub-population coverage. It is anticipated that the strategic directions will evolve as the
lessons learned from the new approach of a multi-sectoral response are absorbed. The coordination and
monitoring and evaluation of this intensified response poses challenges that the project will assist by
supporting the NAC and its Secretariat to carry out their mandate. At decentralized levels, the project
will support the establishment, capacity building for, and functioning of local coordinating mechanisms
through local government structures.
The prevention of new HIV infections. Reducing the incidence of HIV is the single most important
strategic priority to address the epidemic. Strategies and activities to achieve this vary according to the
target population and encompass health education, sex education, anticipatory guidance for children and
parents, peer support programs, behavior-change interventions, the promotion of condom use, voluntary
counseling and testing (VCT), the promotion of abstinence, the prevention of parent-to-child
transmission, the reduction of susceptibility through treatment of STI, the screening of blood before
transfusion, post-exposure treatment for rape-victims, etc. The implementing agencies will be required to
- 10 -



put special emphasis on three target groups for prevention activities to be funded under the project: a)
the poor and vulnerable (e.g., women and children); b) those in whom significant investments will be
made or have been made (e.g., new recruits, school and university entrants, employees); and c) high risk
groups, both in terms of getting infected as well as transmitting HIV (e.g., commercial sex workers,
migrant workers, truck drivers, construction workers). The extent to which the various implementing
agencies will be involved with any given target group will depend on their respective mandates and
access to these groups.
Major roles are anticipated for the education sector (children, school and university entrants, employees),
the private sector (employees, new recruits, migrant workers), public sector institutions (ernployees, new
recruits), especially those with important extension services like agriculture, police, defense, health, and
livestock (rural poor and vulnerable), and NGOs/CBOs (commercial sex workers, women, the poor,
street children). The NAC and its equivalents at the provincial and district levels District AIDS Task
Forces (DATFs) will coordinate these activities, promote consistency in the various approaches, and
disseminate experiences and best practices.
Mitigating the socio-economic impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The HBV/AIDS epidemic in
Zambia has significant impact on individuals, households, businesses, public institutions, and whole
sectors. The growing number of orphans poses an enormous challenge for the social sectors. Reaching
them in order to provide just the very basic nutrition, health and education services already constitutes a
significant problem. Coping mechanisms for households are stretched to the limit and businesses find
themselves confronted with increased costs for social benefits, a high turnover of staff, and a less-
productive workforce. Whole sectors such as health, agriculture, and education now realize that their
usual service delivery mechanisms and the content of those services will have to be revisited, adjusting
their programs to the new circumstances caused by HIV/AIDS. Implementation of the National Strategic
Framework on HIV/AIDS includes measures to be supported by the project to mitigate these effects of
the epidemic, including the design and promotion of social safety nets for those affected by HIV/AIDS.
Orphans and vulnerable children. Children are a particularly vulnerable group among those affected
by the AIDS crisis and the increasing poverty in Zambia. According to the Living Conditions
Monitoring Survey (LCMS) of 1996, 13% of the population aged below 18 years were orphans from
AIDS and other causes. By 1999, an estimated 520,000 children have been orphaned as a result of
HIV/AIDS. As a result of the lag period between the parents' infection and death, the number of orphans
due to AIDS is expected to continue to rise, and to reach 974,000 by 2014. The orphans crisis exerts
considerable strain on the existing extended family structure and the whole social system in the
communities through increasing household dependency ratios, school enrollments and multi-generational
poverty traps.
A detailed "Situation Analysis on Orphans and Vulnerable Children in Zambia" was completed in 1999
(see Annex 8). The children orphaned as result of AIDS are likely to suffer from loss of schooling and
educational opportunities, failure to be immunized or to receive health care, increased malnutrition,
increased demand for labor, loss of family and identity, depression, and overall reduction in well-being.
In recognition of these special problems, the ZANARA project recognizes that support for community
based responses targeting orphans is a desirable and economically feasible intervention. Through the
Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS) component of the project, community based initiatives
that help to address the educational, health and social needs of the orphans will be given due attention.
Through the involvement of the Ministry of Legal Affairs the project will also support advocacy for
policy and judicial reforms that will increase the protection of the individual as well as property rights of
the orphans in Zambia.



Increasing access to care and support for those infected or affected by HIV/AIDS. An estimated
870,000 HIV infected people are currently living in Zambia. To provide at least a basic, sustainable, but
meaningful package of care and support to those infected or affected by HIV/AIDS poses enormnous
economic, social, ethical, and organizational challenges to Zambian society. While there are great efforts
undertaken by families, communities, the Government, and its development partners to address the issues
involved, there remains a huge and growing demand. The project will support activities that increase
access to social support services, such as patient support groups coordinated by the Network of People
Living with HIAIDS, and initiatives to provide care and support for orphans. Activities will be
formulated that will protect the human rights of those infected or affected, including the articulation of
policies that guard against discrimination in employment practices and access to benefits.
Promoting an enabling socio-cultural environment for a multi-sectoral response. One of the key
reasons for a broader approach to the HIV/AIDS issue is the influence of socio-cultural norns and values
on the spread of the disease. Attitudes toward gender, religious teachings on sexuality, and social and
cultural practices can facilitate the spread of HIV. Efforts will be made to promote socio-cultural norms,
values, and beliefs that are consistent with the reduction of HIV transmission, and that protect the human
rights of those infected or affected by HIV while at the same time being culturally sensitive.
NAC-coordinated activities are expected to pursue this objective through education, advocacy,
counseling, consultation, and modification of customary law, and intensified enforcement of written
laws, particularly with respect to gender-specific issues. The reduction of stigma will receive special
attention as it constitutes an important obstacle for affected individuals and households to access support
and care services. The project will support such efforts through both the financing of work-programs of
the implementing partners of NAC and of activities directly coordinated by NAC on this issue. Use of
indigenous knowledge and practices to positively change behaviors, for example initiation and marriage
rites and ceremonies, will be explored to provide fora for HfIV prevention activities.
Research. Developments in the area of HIV/AIDS are occurring rapidly, both with regards to prevention
as well as to treatment and care. Studies are needed to establish the effectiveness, feasibility,
affordability, and appropriateness of these in the Zambian context. In addition, in order to develop an
appropriate response, impact assessments that quantify specific changes due to HIV/AIDS are needed in
various sectors. NAC has the mandate to set the priority research agenda and the project will consider
supporting studies that may lead to a more effective and efficient response to the epidemic. It is
anticipated that studies related to parent-to-child transmission, women-controlled methods for HIV and
STI prevention such as microbicides, and impact studies will be supported. Piloting the use of
prophylaxis against Opportunistic Infections (01), and the development of a syndromic OI management
protocol for adults and children with HIV/AIDS would also be considered for support as research
activities.
Specific gender strategy. The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia has an important bearing on gender
relationships in the society. Young girls tend to engage in sexual activities earlier than their male
counterparts. They also enter into relations with older more experienced men who are more likely to
have been infected. The females in two partner unions are also less likely to perceive being at risk and
less likely to report sexual activity with non-regular partners when compared with their male
counterparts. When asked whether a condom was used during the last sexual intercourse, females are
less likely to report having done so [Zambia Demographic Health Survey (ZDHS) 1998]. After the death
of their male partners, females are more likely to lose control over the properties of the deceased thereby
becoming even poorer. When parents are ill or have died, girls are the more likely to drop out of school
to care for the sick parents or the younger siblings. When placed in foster homes, girls are much more
- 12 -



likely to be sexually abused. Physical violence, the threat of violence, and/or fear of abandonment can
act as substantial barriers to women in negotiating condom use, discussing fidelity with partners, or in
leaving relationships perceived to place them at increased risk of HIV infection.
Women are especially vulnerable to HIV infection due to a variety of social and biological factors. The
Government will work with community agencies to provide support for activities that reduce the risk of
HIV infection among women, such as basic education on sexual and reproductive health, HIV, and STIs;
activities for youth designed to delay sexual experience; harmonizing the age of consent, marriage, and
maturity; encouraging voluntary testing; and empowering women on matters pertaining to access to
information, employment, and economic/social recognition.
A large percentage of new HIV infections occur among youth, particularly young women (15-19 years).
The NAC, in close cooperation with the education sector, will provide guidance in the development of
culturally, morally, and scientifically acceptable AIDS education programs for youth in and out of school
and advocate for the protection of youth against behaviors that place them at increased risk of HIV
infection. These activities will be supported both through the financing of work-programs and activities
coordinated by NAC.
The plight of men with regards to HIV/AIDS can easily be ignored in the face of the enormous problems
faced by women. But boys and young men are still brought up in an environment in which social values,
education and peer pressures endorse and in fact encourage multiple and casual sexual relationships. To
address the HIV/AIDS epidemic successfully, it will be essential to consider the role of gender in
increasing the vulnerability and impact of HIV/AIDS.
This project will mainstream gender considerations into all its components. Community activities that
focus on the prevention of HIV specifically targeting the female or male population will be encouraged.
Reducing the H1V prevalence among teenage girls population will receive high priority and a concerted
effort will be made to involve activities targeting older men in bringing about this change. Community
driven activities that focus on the care of women, girls and widows affected by HIV/AIDS will be
supported. All the line ministries with HIV/AIDS activities in their work plans will need to have gender
specific activities as well. The Ministry of Education can take proactive measures to ensure that girls
affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic themselves or their families have adequate support mechanisms to
continue with their education. Research activities which address the questions of the role of gender in
HIN transmission will also be promoted.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
N/A
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
General. The project will support Zambia's response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the context of the
principles and objectives reflected in the Zambia National HIV/AIDS/STD/TB Strategic Framework
2001-2003, and in close collaboration with a wide variety of implementing, coordinating and supporting
partners. The support to implementing agencies will involve public as well as private sector and
religious organizations, with a main focus on commnunity driven initiatives. The coordination of the
national response will be supported through the (NAC), its Secretariat and the decentralized entities
- 13 -



charged with coordination at the district level. The project administration will be housed initially in the
MOFNP as the ministry mandated to mobilize resources and coordinate their use. Flexibility in both
project design and project implementation is essential in view of the evolving character of Zambia's
multi-sectoral approach to the HIV epidemic, and the evolving financial support from other collaborating
partners. In the same context the establishment of a Joint HIV/AIDS Financing Committee will be
crucial as it will provide the platform for agreed adjustments during the project cycle and for joint
financing arrangements, assuring that IDA funds do not replace grant funding from other partners.
Part (a) Support for Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS) (US$ 14.7 million)
Financial support under this component will serve to support communities in responding to the epidemic,
either directly through financing activities by community based organizations or through the facilitation
of interventions by NGOs, Religious Organizations or Organizations of People Living with HIV/AIDS.
At central level, the administration of this component will be under the MOFNP with ZAMSEF as the
lead executing agency. Support for approved organizations will be provided through ZAMSIF as grants,
upon approval of proposals. Eligibility criteria for organizations and activities to be supported as well as
the operational aspects of this component are elaborated in the CRAIDS Operational Manual.
At the district level, ZAMSIF will collaborate closely with NAC and the coordinating entities to review
and, when appropriate, approve proposals. Care will be taken to maintain an appropriate balance
between interventions targeted at the prevention of HIV transmission and interventions targeted to the
provision of care and support to infected or affected individuals or households. Equally, the geographic
spread of activities will be monitored and additional efforts to mobilize communities are anticipated in
case of relative inertia in an identified geographic area. Particular attention will be given to coordination
with relevant TWGs and NAC to provide appropriate support for the various target groups.
Part (b) Support to the National AIDS Council and Secretariat (US$ 2.5 million)
This component will provide support to the NAC to coordinate the national response to AIDS. Its
Secretariat will provide technical guidance and implement Council decisions emanating from the
mandate and deliberations of the Council. The Council and Secretariat do not constitute an
implementing agency but will play a facilitating and catalytic role. At district level, appropriate entities
for the coordination and harmonization of fHV/AIDS related interventions will be eligible for financial
support as well. Financial support for the NAC as well as for the district entities will be provided on the
basis of costed annual workplans. Eligible activities to be supported will be consistent with the mission
of the Council and target the coordination, monitoring and harmonization of interventions by the various
implementing actors in order to achieve synergism and complementarity. In this context, project funds
will be available to facilitate the review and approval process of sub-project proposals submitted under
Part (a) of the project.
Particular attention will be reserved for support to the Co-ordination and M&E role of the Secretariat.
As a major challenge within the context of a multi-sectoral program with multiple, and very diverse
implementing partners, the monitoring of all HIV/AlDS related activities by the Council and Secretariat
is a crucial issue and the project will finance activities related to capacity building in this area. The
establishment of M&E systems and mechanisms, as well as the conduct of specific studies for data
gathering, analysis and dissemination would be supported under this component of the project.
Part (c) Support to the Line Ministries (US$ 21.3 million)
One prong of this component (US$9.6 million) has the specific purpose of mainstreaming
HIV/AIDS-related activities into the workprograms of all line ministries, this sub-component will support
- 14 -



sector-specific responses to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The HIV/AIDS Focal Person in each ministry is
expected to facilitate the elaboration of annual workplans that address:
(cl) the internal impact. The manner in which HIV/AIDS has affected the quality, quantity and
substance of available services, the ability to supply the required services, the organization of
the sector, the role of service providers, human resources policy and management practices, the
planning and management of sector resources, and the availability of resources to the sector;
(c2) the external impact. The manner in which the sector can contribute to the prevention of
further spread of HIV in order to protect both staff and target populations, and the increase ir
access to and use of care and support for the affected or infected.
Within the context of the National Strategic Framework several "catalytic projects" have been identified
that constitute recognized best practices. The ministries responsible for taking the lead in increasing the
coverage of these programs have been identified and the project will make resources available for this
purpose. Where the implementing agency is a NGO, CBO, or Religious Organization, support will be
channeled through the CRAIDS component to the extent possible.
The line ministries are considered as key public sector partners in Zambia for the fight against
HIV/AIDS, and project funds will be used for eligible expenditures as proposed in annual workplans of
those ministries. These ministries include the Ministry of Health (MOH); Education; Sport, Youth and
Child Development; Community Development and Social Services; Science, Technology and Vocational
Training; Agriculture, Food and Fisheries; Labor and Social Security; Commerce, Trade and Industry;
Finance and Economic Development; Home Affairs; Defense; Information and Broadcasting Services;
Local Government and Housing; Works; Energy and Water Development. Five ministries will receive
priority, given their central role in the fight against HIV/AIDS and/or their large staffs -- Defense,
Education, Health, Home Affairs (includes police and prisons), and Local Government.
Budgeted workplans have been prepared which detail the activities to be conducted by each Ministry in
the first year. These first year work plans concentrate on measures to immediately protect staff,
including new recruits, in the respective ministries, on the scaling up of the catalytic projects and on
capacity building for the elaboration of more comprehensive and sector-specific responses. The detailed
first year workplan for each ministry is available in the Project files.
The MOH as a key public sector agency in the fight against HIV/AIDS will receive financing ($11.7
million) to support implementation activities to provide care and support, and to mnitigate the impact of
HIV/AIDS for those affected and infected, as outlined in the MOH's HIV/AIDS Workplan. The focus of
the workplan is on strengthening youth friendly services, expansion of voluntary counselling and testing
(VCT) services, provision of safe blood, strengthening laboratory services, information education and
communication (EEC), partnerships with traditional healers, research, and monitoring and evaluation. In
addition, this sub-component will fund activities as described under the first part of this component as
they relate to the MOH.
Part (d) Program Administration (US$ 3.5 million)
A Program Administration Unit (PAU), established within the MOFNP and reporting to the Permanent
Secretary- Secretary to the Treasury will be responsible for the administration, management, and
reporting of all project activities. Reports for all stakeholders on resources and their use, implementation
progress and procurement plans and progress will be consolidated by this unit. In addition, the PAU will
oversee the financial management, procurement and disbursement functions of the project and be
responsible for the day to day interactions with the World Bank on project administration. The PAU will
- 15 -



initially be established in the MOFNP, but, during the course of project implementation, the Govermnent
and IDA will assess whether MOFNP as the parent institution of the PAU remains the most appropriate.
The unit will be established with the specific understanding that it may accommodate the administrative
and project management requirements of cooperating partners.
Indicative            Bank-     % of
Component                      Costs     % of'    financing   Bank-
(US$M)'   Total     (US$M)   financing
Part (a) CRAIDS                                     14.70      32.0     14.70     35.0
Part (b) NAC                                         3.80       8.3      2.50      6.0
Part (cl) Line Ministries                           10.30      22.4      9.60     22.9
Part (c2) MOH National Program                      12.70      27.6     11.70     27.9
Part (d) Program Administration                      4.50       9.8      3.50      8.3
Total Project Costs  46.00   100.0     42.00     100.0
Total Financing Required  46.00     100.0     42.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project is a multi-sector operation that will support the following key policy and institutional
changes. It will neither address long-term sector and institutional reforms within any one sector nor will
it include conditions linked to macroeconomics or individual sector policies. It will assist the
Government in:
(a) Making the National HIV/AIDS Program truly multi-sectoral by mainstreaming HIV/AIDS control
into the action plan of every Govermnent Ministry and by strengthening capacity of the NAC for
overall national coordination; and
(b) Ensuring the National H1V/AIDS program is truly participatory by encouraging the private sector
participation in HIV/AIDS control and empowering communities to be key players in the HIV/AIDS
control program.
3. Benefits and target population:
(a)  Benefits
The project will provide the following benefits to Zambia:
1. Reduced number of new HIV/AIDS cases, by reducing the rate of transmission of HIV through:
(a) changing HIV-related behaviors,
(b) improving the accessibility to condoms,
(c) reducing the rate of sexually transmitted diseases, and
(d) reducing the number of infections transmitted from parent to child
2. Extended productive life of people living with AIDS by:
(a) improving the prevention and treatment of 01, and
(b) providing support for nutritional programs for people living with HlV/AlDS;
3. Improved diagnosis, treatment and care for people living with HIV/AIDS by:
(a) expanding access to voluntary counseling and testing,
(b) diffusing standard protocols, and training both professional and traditional health care
providers on the clinical management of STI and OI, and of HIV; and
(c) improving the planning, procurement and distribution of essential diagnostic kits and
pharmaceuticals;
4. Improved ability of communities, households and individuals to prevent or cope with impact of
- 16 -



HIV/AIDS, through support for community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives, and
5. Improved economic prospects of orphans and poor HIV stricken families with school aged
children by providing support for initiatives targeting the respective households and increasing
the enrollment of orphans and vulnerable children in schools.
(b) Targeting
The project is designed to not only target specific groups which are known to be particularly vulnerable
to HIV infection, but also address the specific needs of different sectors such as education, gender, labor,
social development, transport, industry, and etc. Efforts will be put into improving the country's overall
capacity to cope with the epidemic: within the government, at the central and district levels, and outside
government. Some health promotion activities will be targeted to address risks as well as vulnerability:
1. groups which are known to be particularly vulnerable to HIV infection such as young people (in
particular young girls), pregnant women, long distance truck drivers, road and power
construction workers, traders, fishermen, the military, the prison population;
2. groups which engage in high risk HIV-related behaviors, such as commercial sex workers, or
intravenous drug users, or other high risk groups such as the young people, particularly girls; and
3. key sectors such as agriculture, mines and other industries, road construction, power and energy,
and others with significant mobile or active work force.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a)  Institutional arrangements
The MOFNP will be the custodian of the proposed project. The Permanent Secretary Budget and
Economic Affairs of the MOFNP will be the overall controlling officer for resources made available for
the project and accountable. MOFNP will provide for a PAU consisting of a Program Administrator, a
Finance Manager, a Program Administration Officer, a Procurement Officer and supporting staff. While
this unit will initially service the administrative requirements of this IDA financed project it is envisaged
that projects financed by other cooperating partners may be accommodated by the same unit. At
mid-term, GRZ, IDA and the development partners will assess the appropriateness of these institutional
arrangements.
Under MOFNP, ZAMSEF will implement the CRAIDS component and will submit its progress reports
and accounts directly to the Permanent Secretary MOFNP, with copies to the PAU and the NAC and
Secretariat.
The controlling officer of each implementing line ministry will ensure that program and project activities
are aimed at mitigating the impact of HIV/AIDS on their sector and that prevention activities are
integrated into its workprograms. They will ensure that the project resources are applied to the intended
purposes and used for eligible expenditures. The HIV/AIDS Focal Person in the line ministries will
coordinate the implementation of project activities at the level of the individual ministry.
Similarly, the controlling officer of the NAC will ensure that the use of project resources are used for the
intended purposes and for eligible expenditures. The head of the Secretariat will be responsible for the
submission of annual workplans and regular financial and implementation progress reports. In addition,
it is foreseen that the NAC will consolidate the reports of the various projects and programs, and
organize annual reviews for all partners and stakeholders.
The underlying principles behind the institutional arrangements proposed for the project are simple and
- 17 -



aim to:
1. As much as possible, avoid creating new institutional structures and use existing means for
coordination and project implementation.
2. Support the NAC to carry out its institutional mandate of program coordination and monitoring
& evaluation.
3. Support agreed channels to provide efficient flow of funds to the implementing agencies.
(b) National level coordination
The institutional arrangements for program coordination at the national level are represented by the
diagram in Figure 3.
Figure 3 National Level Coordination - Institutional Arrangements
Committee of                    Ministry of Finance &
Cabinet Ministers                  National Planning
(MoFNP)
UNADSTG  rProgramme Administration
National AIDS Council         |         Unit (PAU)
(NAC) & Secretariat
Technical Working Groups                             [    int Finnd       Co
I  /            \          Jo~~~~Inluing FinaniDS expanmitedeG
,~                                                  j
Civil Society Response     Line Ministries Activities      NAC Activities
The project will work largely through existing and established structures for the national level
coordination. The multi-sectoral NAC has been established and will be the central coordinating body for
project activities at the national level. The Chairman of the Council and a Director of the Secretariat
have been appointed. The Council will provide broad policy guidance for the National HIV/A1DS
program, supported by an adequately-staffed Secretariat headed by a Director. The NAC will be
expected to coordinate with the Committee of Cabinet Ministers on the policy issues related to the
overall national response to HIV/AIDS. The NAC Secretariat will be responsible for the program
coordination and monitoring & evaluation for the national program, supported by the TWG which will
provide technical guidance on each of their identified areas (some of these are already functioning).
- 18 -



Management responsibility for technical aspects of the project will lie with the NAC, the non-technical,
administrative aspects of project implementation will be assigned to the PAU in the MOFNP. The PAU
will coordinate the central procurement activities and administer the project disbursement and
withdrawal procedures. The NAC will have approval authority for all project activities.
At the program level a Joint HIV/AIDS Financing Committee will be established. This Committee,
under the Chairmanship of the NAC will bring together the technical and financial partners, supporting
the program. It will serve as an advisory body to the Council and monitor the physical progress of the
program, the use of resources, and the commitments for support by the various partners and elaborate
joint financing plans and mechanisms. The committee will receive and review the interim and annual
technical and financial audits of the project, among other reports.
(c) Decentralized level coordination
The CRAIDS component. The bulk of the community responses will be coordinated through the
existing ZAMSIF structure. The mechanism for such coordination is depicted in Figure 4. This
component will be community driven, and the exact nature of which projects will be funded can only be
determined based on received responses from the communities selected from a menu of broadly-defined
activities. The process starts when a community prepares a proposal for funding of an HTV/AIDS
prevention and care activity under the project. A facilitating NGO may assist the community in the
proposal preparation if requested. The proposal is channeled through the existing District Planning
Sub-Committee which oversees all development activities in the district. The Planning Sub-Committee
then submits the proposal to the DATF for appraisal, and then to the District Council for approval. The
costing and budgeting of the communities' proposals will be done by ZAMSIF and submitted to NAC on
a no-objection basis and then to ZAMSIF for disbursement.
Figure 4 Appraisal, Approval & Disbursement Mechanisms
- 19 -



Sub-project Proposal              Assisted by "facilitating" NGO if so
Elaborated by Community          requested by Community
Submitted to District Planning
Sub-committee & to District AIDS
Task Force (where existing) for
Appraisal
t Nubrnitted to District Council  b
for Recommendation for
Approval
b   Subrmitted to ZAMSIF for               fuNdn a      b      t
costing and budgeting            Authorization to Fund
Advise to ZAMSIF
_for disbursement
The Strengthening of the NAC component. For the NAC work program, a proposal will be made by
the NAC Secretariat and subrniitted to the NAC TGWs for appraisal. The NAC will be the approving
body for the work programn, which is then submitted to the PAU for funding and disbursement to the
NAC Secretariat.
- 20 -



Figure 5
NAC Component
Appraisal, Approval and Disbursement Mechanisms
Annual Workprogram Proposal Elaborated
by National AIDS Council & Secretariat
and Technical Working Groups
Submitted to National
AIDS Council for                     Joint Consultations
and Authorization to                       (JFC)
Fund
Recommendation to PAU
for disbursement
Support for the line ministries component. For the line ministries' work program proposals elaborated
by the AIDS focal points, the NAC secretariat will appraise the proposal. The appraised work program is
submitted to the PAU for funding. The PAU seeks the authorization to fund the proposal from the TSC,
and disburses the funds.
- 21 -



Figure 6
Line Ministries Component
Appraisal, Approval and Disbursement Mechanisms
Annual Workprogram Proposal
Elaborated by Line Ministry
Submitted to
Permanent Secretary
for Approval
Submitted to TSC of                                  Joint Consultations
NAC for Appraisal                                   Joint (JFC)
Recommendation to PAU
for disbursement
By these arrangements, the NAC will be able to focus on its mandate for coordination of all HIV/AIDS
activities, and will be in better place to monitor and evaluate progress with the program without being
overwhelmed by the multiple and diverse day to day administrative functions of procurement,
disbursement and withdrawal procedures, which fall outside the intended role of the NAC.
(d) Project implementation
The project will finance a series of HIV/AIDS plans presented by CBOs, NGOs, the NAC and line
-22 -



ministries. Planned activities for the first year of project implementation will be integrated into an
annual Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
The project will assist in building capacity in weaker CBOs/NGOs and ministries for planning and
implementing the AIDS control activities. The project geographic coverage will gradually expand to
include more communities as the implementing capacity gets stronger. The NAC Secretariat and line
ministries will annually present HIV/AIDS plans for the following fiscal year. The NAC will review
such plans and, when needed, will provide guidance to improve such programs.
Communities will organize themselves, and with collaboration with CBOs or NGOs if necessary, prepare
and present proposals for sub-projects to be funded by the CRAIDS component under ZAMSIF. DATFs
will appraise the merit of each of them and make a recommendation on whether it should be financed.
Sub-projects over US$ 10,000 will need the appraisal review by the NAC Secretariat. The regular
reports on these sub-project audits and evaluations will feed back into project annual reviews. The PIP
and ZAMSIF's Operational Manual describe in detail the specifics of the project's institutional and
implementation arrangements with regards to the CRAIDS component.
(e) Project monitoring
The overall aim of the HIV/AIDS project is to reduce the spread of HIV and mitigate its impact. The
short term objective of the project is to increase the use of HIV prevention, care and impact mitigation
services by targeted vulnerable groups through activities under the four project components. During the
pre-appraisal mission, a logical framework was finalized for the project, and joint performance indicators
were agreed upon for the project inputs/output and also for the outcomes/impact according to established
guidelines. A detailed performance monitoring plan was developed on the basis of the logical framework
and the selected indicators. The project will support the establishment of an M&E system within the
NAC Secretariat to perform the critical task of project M&E during project implementation. The system
will provide valuable information for project management, and for other stakeholders.
The aim of the M&E system will be to provide:
1. Easily accessible, timely information on the Project Inputs, Outputs and Outcomes so that Project
Management can be responsive, if not proactive.
2. Identify intra-country variations in HIV/AIDS epidemiology to support the design of effective
HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and Impact mitigation operations
3. Engage stakeholders by sharing information on progress done, lessons learnt and improvements
to be done through a participatory evaluation of project activities at all levels. This would
provide a basis for information to be shared and compared with others nationally as well as in the
sub-region.
The institutional capacity for M&E within NAC will be strengthened early on during project
implementation by provision of specific technical and financial assistance to the NAC by the African
Development Bank. There will be a need for sufficient capacity to collect, analyze and report the
input/output data related to the project activities from the district level to the national level on an ongoing
fashion. At the national level there are various ongoing activities, external to the Government, which
would provide useful data in terms of the outcomes and impact indicators. A computerized M&E Unit
with a modest expertise in statistics and epidemiology will facilitate efficient project M&E. The
establishment of a link with a local research institution like the Institute for Economic and Social
Research / University of Zambia will help tap into locally available expertise and skills, and also
facilitate capacity building that can be retained.
- 23 -



(f) Project evaluation
There have been sufficient data generated in Zambia to provide baselines for the project impact and
outcome indicators. The project evaluation process will evolve around the annual reviews, when the
existing data collected through the M&E system by the M&E Unit would be collated and analyzed
specifically relative to the achievements or lack thereof of the goals set by the project and program.
During the project preparation process, an attempt was made to set realistic and achievable targets.
While project progress will be monitored regularly, through the annual reviews, a flexible approach will
be taken if the monitoring data indicated need for project re-design during implementation. The annual
reviews will provide timely opportunities to address areas of significant weaknesses. It is expected that
these annual reviews, as well as the final evaluation of the project, will be participatory, and that the final
evaluation will include a beneficiary impact assessment.
(g) Supervision
DATFs, representing all sectors and the Ministry of Local Government and incorporating CBO and NGO
representation, will supervise project activities at district and sub-district levels. Staff from the PAU,
NAC, cooperating partners and the Bank's Task Team will make sample visits to the field to monitor the
performance of implementing agencies at peripheral level. The NAC will monitor overall project
implementation and meet regularly with HIfV/AIDS focal persons of the various ministries to discuss
progress under each line ministry.
The PAU, in close collaboration with NAC, will organize annual project reviews to assess the
performance of the project, its components and its contribution to the national effort to reduce the spread
and impact of HIV/AIDS. Specific areas of the review will include technical and operational aspects of
project implementation. Project reviews will be carried out jointly by the NAC and an independent team
of experts from various partners and from various technical backgrounds under previously defined terms
of reference.
The reviews will draw on the information generated from routine monitoring, the studies conducted and
any other relevant information. Project reviews will culminate in stakeholder meetings that will form a
basis for re-planning for the next year. These meetings will be used to share information on trends, best
practices and to provide general technical information. The World Bank's Task Team charged with the
supervision will cooperate closely with all cooperating partners involved and will provide multi-sectoral
expertise. In view of the new institutional structures being put in place, the multiplicity of implementing
agencies and the consequent need for broad consultations, participation and coordination an intensive
supervision strategy is proposed (see Annex 11) as essential to the success of the project.
(h) Procurement arrangements
The NAC, line ministries and districts will procure works, goods and services in relation to the respective
activities, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular
Section 3.15, Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting services by firms, organizations, or
individuals financed by IDA will be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999).
Communities will use the Bank's simplified Procurement and Disbursement Procedures for
Community-Based Investments to procure goods or services needed to implement their respective
community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives under the CRAIDS component. When these activities cost less
- 24 -



than US$ 30,000 equivalent per community per approved proposal, communities will use "local
shopping" as the standard procurement method.
To facilitate speedy import of items valued at less than US$ 100,000 equivalent required urgently for
diagnosis/treatment and institutional strengthening, contracts may be made based on international
shopping and national shopping procedures, respectively, per IDA Procurement Guidelines (Clauses 3.5
and 3.6) or through procurement from the United Nations (i.e., IAPSO, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO),
provided contract awards are made within 12 months of the Project effectiveness date.
Given the urgency of the project, a wide-ranging General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first year of
operations will be placed on the United Nations Development Business web site without a need for
hard-copy publication. The Borrower will prepare, no later than August 31, 2002, a procurement plan for
the first year of project operations to be included in the PIM, and subsequently annual procurement plans.
The plan will include relevant inforrnation on goods, works, and consulting services under the project as
well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be
updated every quarter and reviewed by IDA.
Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities) will be assessed on an annual
basis (in the form of procurement/physical audits by an external agency). In addition to the formal
annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically.
(i) Financial management
The Bank standard procedures for accounting and auditing will apply to the funds disbursed to either
public or private institutions, as set out in Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by The
World Bank. Under the supervision of the Permanent Secretary (MOFNP) as the controlling officer, the
Finance Manager will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting under the
project will be acceptable to the Govermment, the World Bank and if applicable other cooperating
partners.
The Financial Management System (FMS) objective will be to help management in spending the
resources aimed at ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness by reaching the intended
beneficiaries and achieving the set objectives. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing
timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will allow management and
financiers to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress or lack of it.
The FMS that will be developed will be computerized. It will follow the proposals as presented in Annex
6. The Action Plan to bring about the FMS includes: the recruitment of a Financial Management
Consultant to advise on the selection and installation of the Project's FMS (using an integrated accounts
package), to prepare the Program's Financial Management and Accounting Procedures Manual
(FMAPM) and to train all staff in the operation of the system and basic record keeping for the
communities; the recruitment of an internationally qualified Finance Manager; the availability of
relevantly qualified and experienced staff at ZAMSIF, line ministries and support staff; capacity
building; the establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts Register; separate Special dollar
and Kwacha Accounts will be operated and these will be reconciled monthly; quarterly reporting of
financial information; cash flow management including variance analysis; Program activities will be
reviewed by the Internal Audit Department of MOFNP and ZAMSIF in conjunction with the Monitoring
& Evaluation group; an annual external audit will be undertaken by qualified and independent auditors
on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Given the characteristics and risk profile of the project, for
a more timely feedback, the audit work will be carried out in two semi-annual phases and an interim
-25 -



report will be submitted to the stakeholders not later than three months after the end of the first half of
each fiscal year. The annual audit report will however cover the full period.
By project effectiveness, ZANARA will have in place a FMS that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information as required by the Bank i.e. the Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMR). The borrower has opted to use the traditional transaction-based method of disbursement. Thus,
existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed
i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitments. A review of the progress on the
establishment of the financial management system and capacity of the Project will be made by a World
Bank Financial Management Specialist before project effectiveness.
(j) Disbursement procedures
All disbursements against expenditure contracts with civil society organizations and the private sector
will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) and is subject to sample ex-post financial,
physical, and technical audit to be carried out by financial and technical consultants appointed by the
Auditor-General and acceptable to the Bank, and employed by the PAU. All procurement contracts not
subject to IDA prior review will be disbursed against SOEs and documentation will be retained by the
PAU and made available for review by IDA financial management and procurement specialists and
project financial and procurement auditors.
In the case of the community-driven HIV/AIDS initiatives under the CRAIDS component, the financing
of expenditures is on the basis of grants to the communities and NGOs, as the beneficiaries are unlikely
to spend without the assurance of funds. All disbursements against expenditures under this component
will be subject to ex post financial and physical audits, on a sample basis, to be carried out by financial
and technical consultants employed by the PAU.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project is an IDA 13 Grant under the Second Multi-Country H1V/AIDS Program (MAP 2) for the
Africa Region and is in accordance with the Bank's regional HIV/AlDS strategy "Intensifying Action
Against HIV/AIDS in Africa: Responding to a Development Crisis". The overall MAP design is using
the lending instrnment of an APL. A "vertical" APL for individual countries, in combination with the
"horizontal" APL for Africa was an alternative proposed and rejected (see MAP PAD for further details).
Given the MAP context, no alternative project designs would be appropriate. The IDA assistance is
aimed at filling the existing funding gap for the Zambia National HIV/AIDS/STI Strategic Framework,
and complement other available funds.
- 26-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
A large number of agencies are involved in HIV/AIDS related activities, frequently through multiple
projects. The IDA projects in Zambia have made significant progress in addressing HIV/AIDS
throughout the portfolio and other development partners are doing the same. In order to facilitate an
overview of the multiplicity of activities, projects and partners involved, IDA has assisted in assembling
a database of the extemal contributions to Zambia's HIV/AIDS response (April 2000). From the major
funding agencies alone, over 130 projects have been identified (as summarized below) and the extemal
resources, including those from IBRD/IDA, to support the current program are estimated at US$50 to 60
million annually. Notwithstanding this large number of projects and significant resource flow, a sizeable
funding gap remained until recently when Zambia's application to the Global Fund against HIV/AIDS,
TB and Malaria was approved, thus promising to significantly reduce this gap. This large number of
projects and partners presents both an opportunity for receipt of a wide-range of support and expertise,
but also a challenge for effective coordination. The govemment has facilitated coordination between the
partners during preparation and established procedures are in place to ensure that this continues.
Implementation experience in Zambia is generally good, but the HSSP (see below) has been an
exception. Steps have, however, been taken to ensure that the relevant lessons for this project, such as
experiences with a sector-wide approach and central procurement issues, are included in the design. The
experience from sector-wide approach in Zambia has led to a project design that accommodates sufficient
options for partner coordination and common financing and implementation arrangements, use of an
existing social fund structure for implementation of community initiatives and locating project
administration in the MOF.
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
General Health                   HSSP                             U            U
HlIV/AIDS prevention among farners ASIP                           S            S
& farm workers
Community support for HIV/AIDS   SIF                              S            S
prevention & impact mitigation
Scholarship program for OVC      Basic Education Subsector        S            S
Investmnent (BESSIP)
HIV/AIDS training for traditional  Environmental Support          U            S
healers                          Program
Other development agencies
Behavior change interventions    Japan, Norway, EC, GTZ,
Canada, Sweden, Netherlands,
DFID, Denmark, USAID,
Ireland, WHO, UNFPA,
UNESCO, UNDP, UNICEF,
UNHCR
Procurement of drugs & HIV test kits  EC, Netherlands, Japan, DFID
Home-based care                  Norway, EC, Denmark,
Netherlands, DFID, Canada,
WHO, UNDP, UNICEF
-27 -



High risk groups                 Norway, EC, Japan, Canada,
Sweden, UNFPA, UNESCO,
UNDP, UNICEF, USAID)
Hospital care                    Denmark, Netherlands, DFID,
WFP
Prevention of PTCT               Norway, GTZ, USAID, WHO,
UNICEF
Multi-sectoral programs           USAID, Norway, Denmark,
Netherlands, Canada, Sweden,
WHO, UNDP, UNFPA, ILO,
UNICEF
OVC                               EC, Japan, Canada, Denmark,
DFID, Netherlands, Ireland,
Italy, Norway, USAID,
UNICEF, WFP
STD control                      Norway, Sweden, GTZ, DFID,
Japan, Canada, WHO, UNFPA,
USAID, UNFPA, UNHCR
Stigma reduction                 EC, Norway, Canada, UNFPA,
UNESCO, UNDP, UNICEF,
USAID
HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria          Global Fund/HIV/AIDS/TB
and Malaria ($193 million)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Political leadership and commitment is a key issue in mobilizing national and donor resources for the
fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The GRZ has indicated its firm commitment to the fight against
HIV/AIDS. The people of Zambia are among the hardest hit by the epidemic, and the political as well as
the economic imperatives for faster growth will not be realized if the HIV/AD)S situation is not
controlled. Effective action requires national leadership and political commitment at the highest levels.
The successful short- term control of the HIV epidemic in Thailand arose because of the political
leadership driven by good epidemiological data, effective programs and vibrant activist civil society
participation. In Zambia, there is consensus among the leadership on the need to tackle the epidemic
effectively. But the thrust of the government's response will need to be sharpened based on evidence and
broad participation.
Vulnerability factors are key drivers of the epidemic. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is driven by
underlying vulnerability factors among populations. The combination of poverty, gender disparities and
information asymmetry provide very fertile soil for HIV to grow and blossom. Therefore, any attempt at
controlling the epidemic without meaningfully addressing the vulnerability factors will be unlikely to
succeed in the long term. This project will specifically focus on the vulnerable groups, including the
youth, orphans, women, widows and widowers in prevention and impact mitigation efforts.
Community participation as a process of empowerment is cruciaL The communities affected by the
H1V/AIDS epidemic find themselves facing multifaceted challenges, and with very thin resources and
capacity to respond. In addition, short term focused strategies may not meet the need for long term
rehabilitation and healing in the communities. Community participation engages the people in a
partnership to fight the epidemic. With extemal resources and the building of local capacity, the
- 28 -



communities will be more empowered in their response to H1V/AIDS. Such a response is also more
likely to be sustainable in the long term. The Zambia HIV/AIDS project will commit about 35% of the
grant resources towards supporting community driven initiatives.
Centralized coordination of community-driven initiatives is an effective way to channel resources
directly to the communities. A lot has been learned in Zambia with regards to the financing of
community based initiatives over the last few decades. The Government itself has provided public funds
through the Social Recovery Project (SRP I and II) as matching grants to conmmunities for
community-managed development activities since 1990. At the same time several other programs,
financed locally and through external support, also provided funds for community activities. In most
cases these programs operated in parallel fashion and without adequate coordination. In order to
minimize the potential inefficiencies and confusion emerging from the uncoordinated approach to
community-driven initiatives, the Government has taken the measure of gradually channelling the
community components of its sector programs through a unified delivery mechanism, ZAMSIF.
ZAMSIF draws on the 10 years of community development experience of SRP I and II and is a
centralized coordination mechanism initiated to channel funds for community-based activities. The
community components of the RoadSIP, BESSIP, Environmental Fund, and Community Investment Fund
are already being implemented through ZAMSIF. ZAMSIF is also responsible for strengthening the
capacity of districts to respond to community needs through the DIF. The ZANARA project will use
such experience and the already existing ZAMSIF structure to implement the CRAIDS component for the
community-based HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation activities.
Multi-sectoral orientation. It has been widely recognized that the HIV/AIDS epidemic extends far and
beyond the narrowly defined health sector. The multi-dimensional nature of the epidemic and its impacts
warrant a change in paradigm from a biomedical to a development one. In this context, the multi-sectoral
approach in HIV prevention, care and mitigation offer best chances of success. This project will involve
the active participation from fourteen line ministries, who will mainstream HIV/AIDS prevention into
their activities with the support of the IDA grant resources. It is expected that such broad mainstreaming
of HIV activities will have a wide impact on the control of the epidemic.
Focus on knowledge building and evidence based interventions. When compared to the HIV/AIDS
situation in the developed countries, there is a huge deficit of knowledge, best practices and resources on
which to build strong evidence based prevention and care interventions. There is still lack of consensus
on areas such as preventing PTCT, ART, Use of Vaginal microbicides, STI treatment and prophylaxis
and treatment of opportunistic infections. As such, this project will adopt a cautious approach by
initially supporting well designed research activities on these unclear issues rather than committing to a
particular intervention. The findings of such research activities could provide firner basis for specific
interventions and can be shared counrtywide, regionally and internationally.
The indigenous knowledge and practices could also be complementary in the efforts to fight
HIV/AIDS. In Mozambique, the involvement of traditional knowledge workers (healers) in awareness
creating in a psychologically and socially sensitive area like sexuality had higher impact at lower cost. In
Tanzania, the integration of local healers in AIDS prevention and mitigation strategies increased the
effectiveness of the approach and access for poorer families. Along similar lines, the Bank is currently
piloting the use of traditional channels of communication ("griot" network) to deliver culturally
congruent messages in prevention of HIV/AIDS in West Africa. This project will encourage access to
and use of appropriate indigenous knowledge and practices in the fight against HIV/AIDS. (For example,
where initiation rites are practiced, the leaders and the young men and women could also receive HIV
prevention information).
- 29 -



Role clarity between the NAC and implementing agencies. There are experiences from other
countries which show that channeling significant resources to institutions that were set up to coordinate
and monitor project activities, introduces a temptation for those institutions to venture into
implementation. In the Zambia situation, the NAC has been set up explicitly to coordinate and monitor
the national response to the epidemic and not to implement. The NAC will be supported under the
project to coordinate and monitor the activities, whereas a wide spectrum of agencies and institutions
will be supported to implement the project activities.
Procurement and disbursement. The emergency nature of the response to HIV/AIDS requires simple,
rapid and focused implementation arrangements for project activities. Lack of familiarity with IDA
procurement and disbursement procedures could hinder smooth project implementation. In this project,
such lack of familiarity is not a major problem because most activities will be channeled through the
ZAMSIF. The procurement that will be done outside ZAMSIF will be handled through a centralized
procurement office, located in MOFNP. This cental procurement office has proven capacity on IDA
procurement. In terms of disbursement, the current Zambia health project has suffered from a long back
log of payment applications. Such experience is very unlikely when the processing of payment
applications are handled by MOFNP which has greater capacity both in terms of human resources and in
experience with IDA.
Recognized "Best Practices" in Zambia, designated as catalytic projects, tend to have common
characteristics that include local ownership, public-private cooperation, cultural sensitivity and limited
geographical coverage. The project will encourage sub-projects along similar lines and assist NAC
develop an appropriate approach to scaling up the various interventions and increasing geographical
coverage. It has been suggested that NGO and CBO led initiatives have provided for a substantial part of
successes recorded.
Staff turnover threatens implementation capacity. One lesson that has emerged from the HSSP
project is that turnover of staff, on either the Borrower or the Bank side, can seriously diminish capacity
to implement the project. The limited number of staff, in Zambia, with experience working on IDA
projects, in particular with respect to procurement and financial management, negatively affected HSSP's
implementation. Efforts will be made to insulate ZANARA from this risk.
Commitment to monitoring and evaluation, scheduled assessments. Another lesson from HSSP that
is particularly relevant with regards to this project is the importance of the Government's firm
commitment to M&E and the agreed schedule of assessments/appraisals. The health project, much like
ZANARA, was designed to be very flexible in order to respond to the most urgent needs in a dynamic
sector. In order for both the Government and IDA to be able to guide the project in this relatively more
fluid scenario, it is essential that the planned M&E take place and that the findings be jointly reviewed in
a formal, periodic meeting. When this commitment weakened in the context of the health project, key
data stopped being released to partners and the annual reviews were discontinued, the overall program
became directionless and stalled.
Good donor coordination, as experienced in the health sector within the context of a sector-wide
approach, can significantly reduce the transaction costs to the government related to the management of
externally funded programs. Common arrangements for program reviews, M&E, planning of financial
and technical assistance, support missions, funding of programs or program components are all areas that
will be pursued in close cooperation with the NAC, UNAIDS and other cooperating partners.
- 30 -



Good governance is crucial for the achievement of impact and for sustained support to the program.
Especially in countries like Zambia with a high degree of donor dependency, such sustained support is of
critical importance for the HIW/AIDS program to have significant impact. Design issues concerning
transparency, accountability, monitoring and evaluation, and participation by all stakeholders will
continue to be monitored frequently.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
Realizing the devastation of the HIV/AIDS epidemnic, the political leadership of Zambia speaks out
increasingly forcefully on the need to urgently intensify the response to the epidemic. As an integral part
of the country's overall development programs and strategies, it has therefore developed the National
Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS in a collaborative effort between the Govermment and its partners.
Based on the agreed principles and strategic directions contained in this document, the Government
endorsed the initial project concept. Subsequently, consultations were held with all the Government
ministries, all of which have appointed an HIV/AIDS focal person who will serve as their liaison to the
project, and the project was broadly endorsed. Finally, while the NAC continues to take shape, the
Council, its Chairman and Director-General have strongly endorsed the project and its design.
On November 21, 2000, the GRZ organized a roundtable discussion on HIV/AIDS. The meeting was
addressed by President Chiluba and co-chaired by the Minister of Health and the MOFNP. In his
opening address, the President underlined the importance of effective education and community activism
as the main pillars for the fight against HIV/AIDS. The main thrusts of the project therefore have
support from the highest level.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has taken the decision to be a leader in the reorientation of the response to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, refocusing it from a sectoral, or medical, issue to a multi-sectoral development one. The
September 1999 launch in Lusaka of the Bank's regional AIDS strategy, "Intensifying Action Against
HIV/AIDS in Africa," was well received by both the Govemment and the private sector, as well as by
bilateral and multilateral donors. Through the Bank's regional AIDS Campaign Team for ACTafrica and
UNAIDS, the Bank is well positioned to make regional issues and experiences available to the project.
The existing HIV/AIDS Program has to be scaled up by mainstreaming program activities to all the line
ministries and other non-health government agencies at national, regional and district levels, and by
making better use of the capacity of community organizations and civil society organizations such as
churches, trade unions and private businesses. From the Roundtable Discussion on HIV/AIDS on
November 21, 2000 it became evident that the Government resources and the combined pledges by other
cooperating partners could not possibly provide for such effort and that a substantial injection of
resources and technical assistance from IDA is required to sustain the current progress and to further
reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence and its impact on socioeconomic development.
An estimate of the commitments from external funding sources indicate that the current program is
supported with financial resources at a total of USD 50 to 60 million annually. GRZ budgetary resources
to contribute to the program are expected to increase significantly through additional funds that are being
made available under the HIPC Initiative. The total resources required to seriously address the
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia are estimated at around US$560 million over three years (best estimate
scenario, NAC 1999) which includes the costs for HAART. After donor pledges there would still be a
financing gap of approximately US$300 million, or US$150 million if HAART is excluded from the
estimated costs. More recently, the approval of Zambia's application to the Global Fund against
- 31 -



HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria, for an amount of $193 million, has significantly reduced the previously
estimated funding gap. The IDA grant funds will contribute to filling the remaining gap and be applied
in a flexible manner to respond to evolving priorities.
In order for the many sources of funds in addition to the IDA resources there is need for a flexible
approach and good coordination. For this purpose the Country Coordination Mechanism will play a
major role and the establishment of a Joint HV/AIDS Financing Committee is under preparation, as a
platform for joint financing and other implementation arrangements. The project will be based on annual
workplans to allow for timely changes in the light of grants forthcoming with donor coordination by the
NAC facilitated under their component.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
[ref. Annex 5, Project Appraisal Document in Support of the First Phase of the Multi-Country HIVIAIDS
Program for the Africa Region (MAP 1) Report no. 20727 AFR). The detailed economic analysis on
HIV/AIDS has been carried out under MAP 1, which includes an overall assessment on the impact of
HIV/AIDS on economic development and poverty and a cost-benefit analysis of HIV/AIDS interventions.
The data used in the analysis included the Zambia HrV/AIDS information. This section only highlights
some key points for the ZANARA Project.
The HIV/AIDS epidemic has gone beyond health and has become a serious socioeconomic development
issue. HIV/AIDS affects an economy through (i) reducing productivity, domestic savings and economic
growth, and (ii) increasing costs of treatment and care for both affected households and the society as a
whole. Zambia is one of the severely-affected countries. About 20 percent of Zambia's adult population
is LIV positive. About 650,000 cumulative AIDS deaths have occurred by 1999 and left over 520,000
children as orphans. It is estimated that Zambia's GDP would be 4% less with the HIV/AIDS epidemic
than without it. AIDS strikes people in their most productive age, reducing both the size and growth of
the nation's labor force, increasing absenteeism due to illness and time taken to attend funerals,
increasing labor turnover and generally reducing productivity.
The care and treatment for AIDS impose enormous costs on households and the society at large.
Households with AIDS patients are likely to lose the income of their members (often the main
breadwinner) in addition to facing an increase in medical expenses, and the expenses related to burials .
Some households are forced to withdraw their children from schools in order to save money as one of
their coping strategies.
- 32 -



The economic benefits of the proposed AIDS control project are multi-fold. First, since this project aims
to scale up interventions in HIV/AIDS control and mitigation, the majority of Zambians will directly and
indirectly benefit from increased access to HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, care and mitigation  I
activities. Secondly, new HIV infections will be reduced, due to an expansion in coverage of the package
of HIV/AIDS prevention activities supported by the project. Thirdly, PLHA can lead a longer and more
productive life by benefiting from better management of opportunistic infections and access to nutritional
supplements; and therefore, less loss in productivity and income and reduced costs for treatment and
care. Fourthly, the support to the community responses will improve the care for orphans and increase
their school attendance. As the analysis in Annex 5 of the MAP showed, a reduction in AIDS-related
death rate and improved care for PLHA would likely increase the country's economic growth rate by
reversing the losses in productivity. In addition, there will be the direct benefit to vulnerable groups
such as teenage girls, orphans, PLHA and pregnant women.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
The project will assist the government to implement the strategic HIV/AIDS control interventions which
are accepted as priorities for the national program, and which have been shown to be both cost-effective
and affordable under the Zambian economic and fiscal situation. The project will finance health
manpower training and supplies for the use of standard clinical management protocols, as recommended
by UNAIDS or WHO. Such standards will be used in VCT, in prevention of PTCT, in prevention of OI,
and in the clinical management of STD and the prevention and treatment of OI.
Financing of anti-retroviral drugs. The financing of anti-retroviral drugs to prevent mother to child
transmission (PMTCT), for the treatment of parents enrolled in PMTCT programs or for PEP under
WHO/UNAIDS guidelines will be considered under the project. Support to further increase the access to
HAART may be considered in the course of the project. If the government decides to use IDA Grant
proceeds for these purpose, the project would finance training of health care personnel in the use of ART,
as well as the costs incurred with the respect to the necessary laboratory support, according to clear
clinical management protocols to be agreed with the UNAIDS and other technical agencies. This issue
also requires the formulation of a coherent national policy on the prevention of PTCT, on PEP for rape
victims and health workers and on equity issues related to access to ART. The considerations to be taken
into account for the prevention of PTCT will include promotion of breast feeding versus alternate feeding
for infants, the social stigmatization that may arise, the side effects and resistance development from
inappropriate use of the drugs. The adequacy of the legislation and law enforcement concerning rape and
sex with rninors will be addressed in the context of the PEP. Cost-effectiveness studies of suggested
interventions will be supported under the project.
Chemo-prophylaxis and treatment of 01. Research on the cost-effectiveness of alternative
interventions for the clinical management of HIV/AIDS, STDs and 01, including the piloting of
chemo-prophylaxis for OI, would be areas that can be supported under the project. The rising incidence
of TB in the country is a direct consequence from the raging HIV/AIDS epidemic. The TB TWG of the
project TSC under the NAC would coordinate and guide the national response specific to TB. Project
resources can be flexibly applied to supplement the national program in the control of the OI, including
- 33 -



TB.
4. Institutional:
The distinction between the coordination role of the national program by the NAC, and the
administration of project activities by the PAU in the MOFNP and ZAMSIF have been agreed to in order
to avoid overlap in responsibilities. Similarly, the lines of responsibility between coordinating and the
various implementing agencies will be defined and reflected in the PIM. With the exception of ZAMSIF,
most of the institutions within the project are new or, to varying degrees, new to the tasks assigned to
them. Some line ministries, such as the MOE and the MOH have been involved in the response to
HIV/AIDS and made significant progress in elaborating their role. Others have not yet been involved
and the project will support the NAC in mobilizing and supporting the various ministries. The NAC is a
new institution and expectations related to its effectiveness during the early stages of project
implementation will need to be modest.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Varying degrees of capacity with the various implementing agencies and actors are anticipated and the
project will make substantial provisions for capacity building, in particular, through the CRAIDS
component. The executing agencies for the project will include the community organizations, the NGOs,
DATFs and the respective line ministries at both national and district levels where available. The
existing ZAMSIF structure will provide important support for the capacity building at the district and
comrmunity levels.
4.2 Project management:
The role of PAU vis-a-vis the NAC will be agreed upon and spelled out in the PIM. Care will be taken
that project administration by the PAU will not include tasks and responsibilities related to
implementation. There are experiences from other countries which show that channeling significant
resources to institutions that were set up to coordinate and monitor project activities, introduces a
temptation for those institutions to venture into implementation. In the Zambia situation, the NAC is
being set up explicitly to coordinate and monitor the national response to the epidemic and not to
implement. The NAC will be supported under the project to coordinate and monitor the activities,
whereas a wider spectrum of agencies and existing institutions will be supported to implement the project
activities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
All major procurement activities for Part b and Part c will be handled centrally by the PAU, except minor
procurements for contracts valued at less than USD 5,000 equivalent per contract subject to an aggregate
of USD 50,000 equivalent per line ministry per year, which will be handled by the respective line
ministries in accordance with the agreed work-programs. In order to kick-start the procurement activities
under the program, the PAU will be hiring a procurement adviser to provide support in the initial
procurement activities of the project.
The procurement advisor will be hired for the first six months of project operations for coordination and
support of the project-related procurement activities including contract management. The procurement
advisor will provide on-going procurement and contract management training to designated PAU staff,
who will take over the procurement activities at the end of the first six months of operations.
Furthermore, in order to build capacity at the local level, where necessary, the procurement advisor will
provide procurement training workshops at the local level. It should be noted that since approximately
35% of the project funds (USD 14.7 million) will be in support of activities related to community-level
initiatives, it is not expected that the PAU would be involved in extensive procurement activities with
- 34 -



large-value contracts, and the bulk of the major procurements should be completed during the first two
years of the project activities.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The FMS will be the responsibilities of the Finance Manager in the PAU for Parts (b), (c) and (d), and
the Financial Controller of ZAMSIF for Part (a) of the project. Reporting to the Permanent Secretary
(MOFNP) through their Program Managers, the Finance Manager and Financial Controller will ensure
that financial management and reporting procedures to be put in place will be acceptable to the
Government, the World Bank and other cooperating partners if applicable.
The borrower intends to use the traditional transaction-based method of disbursement, and will put in
place a FMS that would be able to produce FMS as required by the Bank. The ZANARA FMS will be
developed in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 6. The action
plan will include: the recruitment of a Financial Management Consultant to advise on the selection and
installation of the project's EMS capable of producing consolidated financial statements (using an
integrated accounts package), to prepare the project's FMPM and to train staff in the operation of the
system; the establishment of a representative Financial Management and Procurement Committee; the
recruitment of an internationally qualified Finance Manager and other relevantly qualified and
experienced support staff; capacity building; the establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts
Register; separate Special and Kwacha Accounts will be operated and these will be reconciled monthly;
quarterly reporting of financial information; cash flow management including variance analysis; Project
activities will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Department (MOFNP) and an annual
external audit will be undertaken by the Auditor General on terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project was appraised in April 2001, at which time the environmental classification was "C" (no
assessment) and the initial Environmental and Social Data Sheet (ESDS) was approved on January 19,
2001. The current requirements of preparation and disclosure of the Medical Waste Management Plan
(MWMP) prior to appraisal were not applicable at the time. When the categorization of MAP projects
was changed to environmental classification "B" in August 2001, the preparation of the project had
slowed down, mainly because of frequent changes within the Zambia government in the running up to the
elections in December 2001. Consultations on the medical waste management issues to be addressed,
and the preparation of an MWMP started only in the calendar year 2002. Through a dated covenant
provided in the Development Grant Agreement (DGA, GRZ is assuring that the project will be compliant
-- with the environmental safeguard policy for category B projects - not later then August 31, 2003.
A draft MWMP has been prepared by MOH, supported by resources under the PPF. Resources under the
ZANARA Project will support the implementation of this plan. The plan addresses major adverse
environmental effects such as inappropriate handling and disposal of hazardous medical waste, including
sharp needles. Under the plan it is proposed to train health care professionals, traditional birth attendants
and traditional healers, and other community workers delivering care to HIV/AIDS patients. This
training will include instruction on appropriate separation, transport and disposal of hazardous medical
waste. In addition, a campaign to educate the general public and especially those living near disposal
sites on the potential hazards of medical waste will be conducted. The project will finance the revision
of existing health sector curriculum on appropriate management of hazardous medical waste at medical
facilities and at disposal sites to include the relevant dispositions regarding HIV/AIDS, and on
occupational safety guidelines for health care workers. The draft MWMP is available in the project files
- 35 -



for additional information.
The project itself is not expected to culminate in any major adverse environmental effects and assurances
have been obtained that the final MWMP will be disclosed in-country and through the World Bank
infoshop upon finalization. Resources under the project will support the implementation of the plan.
The project is not primarily designed to supply drugs and antibiotics for STI, TB or HIV. In the event
that such drugs are deemed necessary and the government requests to allocate funds for such a purpose,
appropriate mechanisms will be put in place to ensure that drugs are appropriately used, and that
resistance development is monitored through surveillance. Microbial and viral resistance to antibiotics
and antiviral drugs could pose a challenge to the micro-environment, if such drugs are not used properly.
The potential contribution of the ZANARA project to this risk is considered minimal at this time.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The MWMP is focused on strengthening the skills and knowledge of health workers, community
volunteers, patients and those who scavenge at disposal sites. It proposes a training strategy built
on focused messages, and messages tailored to the different audiences. The plan is currently in
its early draft and would be discussed with all stakeholders before its finalization.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: August 31, 2003
The first draft MWMP was received on October 31, 2002. In-country disclosure of the plan and its
display at the World Bank Infoshop is due by August 31, 2003
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Key stakeholders include all sectors of Government, development partners, NGOs/CBOs/FBOs, people
living with HIV/AIDS and their families, medical personnel, including professional medical
organizations, and the general population. With regard to issues related to medical waste management
special emphasis will be given to involve medical personnel at all levels. During project preparation,
consensus-building exercises to involve major stakeholders to gain consensus around the project concept
document, project design and implementation arrangements have been conducted. During project
implementation, communities will be able to express their needs through Community HIV/AIDS projects
and to participate as active partners in project implementation, adding ownership, transparency and
accountability to the project.
Consultations with civil society organizations on the concept of the project have been extensive and
further consultations during project implementation, monitoring and evaluation will continue. NGOs and
other civil society organizations will implement a significant part of the project, supporting government
agencies and communities in the implementation of project activities. Civil society organizations will
also be consulted in the annual project reviews, in the mid-term reviews and during the summative
evaluation of the project. As mentioned above, consultations on the draft MWMP are still on-going and
will be expected to complete at the latest by August 31, 2003.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Revisions of the existing MWMP will be reviewed together with Government.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
- 36 -



development outcomes.
The project is expected to have a positive social impact by assisting and empowering people and
institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV epidemic. The project development objective is cast
with a particular focus on the vulnerable groups. The existing poverty situation, lack of knowledge and
social arrangements all play a role in making individuals vulnerable to HIV infection. The project will
promote access to prevention, care and mitigation services by the vulnerable groups in the population
through supporting the communities as well as the public sector.
Issues such as distribution of condoms to youths may raise cultural and religious sensitivities. The
project will involve key stakeholders who are experienced in dealing with these issues (i.e. civil society
organizations and PLHA) to help overcome such barriers in locally appropriate ways and ensure that no
groups are excluded in program implementation. The CRAIDS component will offer considerable
support to communities to develop culturally sensitive and acceptable ways to respond to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic.
In addition the project will carry out a series of advocacy, information, education and communication
(IEC) activities to create awareness and acceptance of the human rights issues associated with
HIV/AIDS. For instance, PLHA and their families face continued violations of their economic and
human rights. Consequently, the project will finance advocacy, information, IEC activities to raise
awareness and acceptance of the human and economic rights of PLHA. Information activities will
include advocacy against issues of social stigmatization and discriminatory work place practices. In
addition, the project will pay special attention to women, who do not receive adequate information on
their vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. In particular, sexual workers will be targeted and also receive
information on alternative sources of income so that they are able to protect themselves against
HIV/AIDS. Finally, the issues relating to OVC will be addressed within the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The ZANARA project was developed on the basis of the Zambia National Strategic Framework. The
Strategic Framework was formulated through a process of consultations with key government,
non-government and external stakeholders, and groups of PLHA. The coordination of all national
activities concerning HIV/AIDS is the mandate of the NAC in which all key stakeholders are
represented. The project will support the NAC in order to enhance its effective leadership.
At the beginning of the design of ZANARA, key stakeholders such as NAC, NGOs and donors were
consulted on the project intentions. As part of preparation, the GRZ established a project preparation
team with broad representation of the civil society (including the Network PLHA and the Zambia
Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS), government, the academia, and NAC. This team has been charged to
consult with a wide variety of other key stakeholders on the design of the project. It is expected that
there will be significant involvement of all key stakeholders at various stages during project
implementation. In particular, the multi-sector nature of the project design and implementation makes, by
necessity, for broad stakeholder participation in M&E of project activities. A participatory project
evaluation approach is expected to be used during the annual reviews and at project completion.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society organizations will continue to be consulted during project implementation and will execute
a significant part of the project through the CRAIDS component supporting community-led initiatives.
They will also be consulted as part of the evaluation process such as the annual project reviews, and at
completion of the project.
-37 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will seek to build on the multi-sectoral nature of NAC and will support the Council to
organize annual program reviews with involvement of all key stakeholders. The reviews will concentrate
on the achievements of the program, based on an agreed set of indicators, and the formulation of specific
recommendations to improve performance. Both the NAC and ZAMSIF will be supported in creation of
a M&E that will include the relevant outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project M&E system will collect data on progress made towards achieving the targeted outcomes,
and particular focus will be on increased use of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation
programs by the targeted vulnerable groups. As already stated, the vulnerable groups include women,
PLHA, OVC, youth in and out of school and commercial sexual workers. Therefore, specific indicators
on gender and other vulnerable groups have been included among the project performance indicators (see
Annex 1).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pr ect?
Policy                                     Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 9 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  U9 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   U Yes S No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                (U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  () Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         ( Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             ( Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       () Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The MWMP has been elaborated by GRZ, and reviewed and approved by the the Bank's Africa Social
and Enviromnent Sector unit (AFTES). Resources from the IDA grant will be applied to implement this
plan.
- 38 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabiiity:
The GRZ has demonstrated its firm commitment in the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. This high
level commitment has provided an encouraging environment for the fight against the epidemic. The new
institutional framework establishing the NAC provides the focal point for coordination of efforts at the
national level. The National Strategic Framework consolidates HIV prevention and mitigation efforts
within the context of a national strategy. This project will build on the existing frameworks, along with
other partners, to support the prevention of HIV and the mitigation of its impact. The main thrust behind
the Strategic Framework is the requirement for integrated, people-centered, culturally sensitive and
prioritized approaches. The combination of the community oriented multi-sector approach, a strong
commitment from high levels of Government, substantial capacity building, modest financial
requirements, and the willingness of the donor community to enter into the partnership against AIDS in
Zambia make for the reasonable expectation of the project's sustainabilitv being considered likely in the
short to medium term.
The proposed program will be used as a leverage to mobilize additional resources. Expanding the
ownership for the responsibility to respond to the challenges that the HIV/AIDS epidemic poses is at the
core of the project and will create additional capacity and spread the budgetary burden over a larger
number of sources of financing. The capacity of the program to demonstrate result in both aspects will
be crucial for the sustainability over an extended period of time.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The socio-cultural & political           M        There is already, a high level political
environment is not conducive to promote           cornmitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS. In
the behavioral changes necessary in               order to sustain the current level of support, the
fighting the spread of the epidemic and           project will work in a participatory manner
mitigating its impact                             with other donors to keep HIV/AIDS in the
forefront of public discourse & encourage more
openness. Civil society, community leaders
will be involved very early in project
implementation so as to facilitate a more
conducive environment for the fight against
The Government's stated political &      M        By keeping HIV/AIDS at the forefront of
financial commitments do not materialize          public policy agenda & encouraging dialogue,
the government will be more likely to follow
through on its commitments & the attention to
the community driven initiatives. The
mainstreaming of HIV prevention & mitigation
activities in all sectors will also engender more
attention from the government & political
leaders.
From Components to Outputs
- 39 -



The demand for preventive and impact      S        The project will provide room for supporting
mitigating services are not met with               provision of drugs to prevent MTCT, STI
adequate supplies                                  treatment, condoms, TB and O treatments. In
addition, other co-financiers will be
encouraged in a participatory manner. Already
the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia has
matured, and sero-prevalence among the youth
is beginning to show a downward trend. The
project will be flexible, within agreed limits,
and will adjust its resources to contend with
significant but unexpected demands that may
arise.
The flow of funds to the implementing     M        The MOFNP will be the custodian of the
agencies becomes very low and slow.                project, and the project accounting will be
decentralized. A framework within which
NGO/CBO and community activities can be
funded will be developed. Agreements will be
obtained for counterpart funding by GRZ.
Community organizations and civil         M        Project will use the existing ZAMSIF structure
society are not mobilized, and lack the            to sensitize communities and channel funds
capacity to plan, implement and evaluate           towards community driven activities. The
activities tailored for HIV prevention and         training of the community members and
care among vulnerable groups.                       volunteers in the skills relevant to their
participation in HIV/AIDS prevention and
mitigation activities will be integral part of the
project's activities.
The NAC and PAU have limited capacity     H         The project will focus intensely on
to provide appropriate coordination at the         strengthening the capacity of the NAC and
national level and administer IDA                   PAU through training of staff and the supply of
financed projects.                                  appropriate equipment, technical assistance to
coordinate project activities at national and
local levels.
Decentralized project implementation in   S         The project will institute a system of ensuring
the face of uncertain financial                     accountability at all levels of implementation,
management and institutional capacity               and the use of computerized project
resulting in fiduciary difficulties.                management information system inclusive of
financial and accounting data. An adequate
audit mechanism will also be put in place.
Major procurement will be done only through
ZAMSIF or through the centralized
procurement office located in MOFNP.
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
There is sufficient experience, both within and outside the Bank, to warrant a cautious assessment of the
overall project risk, which is considered substantial. The major risks faced by the project include the
-40 -



following:
(i)    The relative lateness of an aggressive response to the HIV epidemic in Zambia means that very
valuable time may have been lost, and that the epidemic has progressed even deeper, with a much
broader impact. The implementation of the project at decentralized levels will provide the most
responsive way to reach the frontline of fighting the epidemic. There will be the need for significant
financial commitment from both the public and private sectors in the fight against HIV, and such
commitments will need to be sustained. A potential risk is the project resources being overwhelmed
by the demands arising from the continued epidemic. In order to mitigate this risk, the project will work
on expanding co-financing arrangements with other donors. Government's comments to counterpart
funding will need to be kept.
(ii)   The continuation of donor support is crucial to the achievement of the goal of reducing the
spread of HIV and the mitigation of its impact. This project focuses on institutional and community
responses, whereas fighting the HIV epidemic demands substantial efforts in other areas especially for
resources targeted to the provision of drugs, condoms and other supplies. The involvement of IDA will
likely encourage other donors to provide more resources that will be needed for stemming the epidemic
through cost-effective, well coordinated partnerships.
(iii)  The project is expected to ride on significant involvement by NGO/CBOs and the communities.
The organizations of PLHA will have to assume prominence in advocacy as well as direct involvement in
the implementation of the community initiatives. As such, the socio-cultural environment will need to
be conducive for them to do so without being stigmatized. Because the project is targeted initially to
vulnerable populations, it will be important that the institutional mechanisms exist to ensure that the
benefits reach the intended beneficiaries, and that social stigma as well as discriminatory practices are
minimized. The project will bring together the various stakeholders in addressing and creating the
appropriate environment for its efforts.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Condom promotion versus abstinence. There is a likelihood that the debate on the promotion of
condoms as a means to prevent HIV transmission and the alternative of promoting abstinence among the
youth will continue in Zambia for a period extending into the project's implementation. It is, however,
unlikely that any major controversy will be spurred on the issue by reason of the project. The majority
of Zambians support the use of condoms as the means of preventing HIV/AIDS, and the available
research evidence strongly supports their use as a practical step in preventing HIV infection.
Provision of anti-retroviral therapy. The use of ART against HIV/AIDS is still evolving, and there are
research efforts going on in the region as well as internationally. There are ethical and moral issues of
depriving their use where they are available. The project will not be prescriptive as to whether the drugs
are used. There are no major controversies expected in this regard, as the project would be guided by the
technical guidelines produced by specialized agencies, such as WHO and UNAIDS. More generally,
beyond just the provision of ARVs, resources under the project could be used to increase access to care
and to increase the capacity of the health care system to provide and administer these services.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Borrower will have:
-41 -



(a)  adopted the project implementation plan in form and substance satisfactory to IDA
(b)  opened project accounts, made therein the initial deposits, and informed IDA of completicn
of this task.
(c)  established in a form and with functions, resources and staffing satisfactory to the
Association (i) the PAU and (ii) appointed the following staff of the PAU, (ii.a) a program
administrator, (ii.b) a procurement officer and (ii.c) a financial controller
(d)  established with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association; (i) an
accounting and financial management system; (ii) a financial management and procurement
manual; (iii) a procurement plan for the first year of the project; and (iv) a financial
management and procurement committee
(e)  appointed, for the Project, independent auditors, acceptable to IDA under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 2003, and in form, substance, resources and with
functions that are satisfactory to IDA:
(a)  maintain NAC and its Secretariat which will be responsible for the overall coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of both the Programme and the Project
(b) cause NAC to appoint (in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 of the DGA) the following
staff, namely: (i) a programme manager, (ii) an MIS manager, (iii) a finance manager, (iv) an
administrative manager; and (v) an internal auditor.
(c)  prepare, submit and carry out the Medical and Waste Management Plan.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
S 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
-42 -



Wbertus Voetberg                  Dzingai B. Mutumbuka 
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Dire                      Manager/Director
December 11, 2002
4
- 43 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
Key Performance         Data Collection Strategy
Hidr.'rchyofOb.jectives_          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve sustainable growth  Reduced HIV incidence &   HIV sentinel surveillance  Strong political & financial
through the strategic priority  prevalence among males &  reports                commitment by both public &
of (i) reducing the spread of  females aged 15-19 years                          private sectors to the fight
the HIV/AIDS epidemic & (ii)                                                     against HIV/AIDS from a
mitigating its impact                                                            multi-sector perspective in a
sustained fashion
Reduced HIV prevalence     HIV sentinel surveillance  Socioeconomic & political
among antenatal women, less  reports                  climate remains stable
than 20 yrs from 17% to 15%.
Reduced national adult HIV  HIV surveillance reports  Socioeconomic & political
prevalence                 UTNAIDS                    climate remains stable
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
ref. MAP 2                 ref. MAP 2                 ref. MAP 2                 ref. MAP 2
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Increased use of           Median age at first sex    Sexual & Behavioral Survey  Safer sexual behavior change
HIV/AIDS prevention, care &  increased by I year for both  report (SBS)          sustained
impact mitigation programs by females & males by 2008  (ZDHS)
the targeted vulnerable groups
Percentage of teenagers aged  HIV Sentinel surveillance  Both male & female partners
15-19 years who are mothers  ZDHS                     change sexual behaviors
or pregnant with their first                          Women empowered
child reduced from 59.4% to
45% by 2008
Reported Condom use at last  SBS                      Condom supplies are
sex with non-regular partner  ZDHS                    available, affordable & users
increased from 30% to 45%                             know how to use them
for males, & from 17% to 30%
for females by 2008
Decrease the primary school  School Survey/MOE        Educational system is effective
non-enrollment rate among  LCMS
orphans & vulnerable children BESSIP/MOE
(OVC) from x % to x% by
2008 (will check with
BESSIP)
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
-44 -



Component:
Part (a) Community         350 Community Initiatives  ZAMSIF Project Reports    Balance between prevention &
response to the HIV/AIDS   funded by 2008                                       care maintained
epidemic improved
Availability of counseling &  ZAMSIF Project Reports  Test kits are available, social
testing services increased by                        stigma reduced
2008
Number of peer educators,  ZAMSIF Project Reports    Quality maintained
trainer of trainers increased
Increase number of districts  ZAMSIF Project Reports  Communities willing to
with functioning HIV support                         participate
groups to 25 by 2008
10% increase in orphans &  ZAMSIF Project Reports    Social safety net is intact
vulnerable children attending
school before & after projects
in beneficiary communities by
2008
30 functioning district    ZAMSIF Project Reports    Social safety net is intact.
HIV/AIDS task forces
(DATF) established for
sensitizing, appraising &
coordinating HIV/AIDS
prevention & care activities by
2008
Part (b) NAC & Secretariat Technical & operational   NAC annual reports         Information & technical
strengthened               guidelines produced &     Copies of guidelines       expertise available
disseminated by all Technical
Working Groups every three
years until 2008
Two research studies on    NAC reports               Research expertise is available
HIV/AIDS prevention & care  Research reports
supported annually
until 2008
Membership of the Business  NAC reports               Private & public sector able to
Coalition against HIV/AIDS  Business Coalition reports  work together
increased from 18 to 36 by
2008
An HIV/AIDS situational    NAC reports               Information available,
assessment & report on                                accessible
progress against the strategic
framework produced annually
until 2008
An HIV/AIDS newsletter     NAC reports                Local circumstances
produced to share &                                   considered
disseminate best practices &
bibliography on HIV/AIDS in
-45 -



Zambia produced annually
Management Information     NAC reports               Staff are trained, have skills &
System established by                                are retained
Mid-Term
Agreed operational framework NAC reports
for the DATFs produced by
the end of first year of project
Part (c) HIV/AIDS          All line ministries have  line ministry reports to NAC  Behavior change occurs
prevention & mitigation   systematically sensitized their NAC annual reports
activities mainstreamed in  staff about HIV/AIDS through
all line ministries        specifically planned
workshops & activities by
2008
All line ministries have a  line ministry reports    Funds are not used for
funded budget line for     NAC reports               unplanned purposes
HIV/AIDS prevention & care
activities by 2008
All public sector training  NAC compiles & reports from  Skills available
institutions have integrated  all institutions
qualitative HIV/AIDS aspects
into their curriculum by 2008
All line ministries have  line ministry reports      Non-discriminatory policy is
produced & disseminated IEC  NAC reports             maintained
materials on HIV/AIDS
prevention in the workplace by
2008
All line ministries have trained ILine ministry reports  Peer educators are retained
peer educators & counselors  NAC reports
on HIV/AIDS prevention &
care by 2008
Part (d) Project           All central procurements are  PAU internal reporting  Bureaucracy minimized
Administration             done according to time plan                          Negative power not exercised
Strengthened
Disbursement & withdrawal  PAU intemal reporting
procedures are done according
to established standards
Financial Management Action PAU intemal reporting
plan implemented according to
schedule
-46 -



Key'P'40(,;orinnce      Mt ,0Dta-1lection -Strategyll
Hierarchy of Qbjectives      IKe ncA        c             C                      Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
Support for CRAIDS        USD 14 7 million           ZAMSIF Reports             Capacity is built & retained at
communities
Communities are willing to
participate
Demand does not overwhelm
resources
Strengthening NAC & its    USD 2 5 million           NAC Reports                Capacity built & retained
Secretariat                                                                     NAC is able to work with
implementing partners
Support to Line Ministries  USD 21.3 million (i) Line  NAC Reports              Budgets are funded
ministries (excluding MOH) & Line Ministries Report  Implementation capacity is
(ii) MOH                                             built & retained
Non-discriminatory policy
implemented in work place
Program Administration     USD 3.5 mullion           PAU Reports                Capacity built & retained
Unit                                                 Bank Supervision Reports
- 47 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
This project contributes to the partnership against HIV/AIDS in Zambia by supporting the Government's
program as articulated in the NASF. The ZANARA project will finance US$ 46 million to GRZ's
national program for HIV/AIDS as articulated in the National Strategic Implementation Plan and its
activities. The purpose of the Government's program is to:
(i)  to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS
(ii) to mitigate the socioeconomic impact of the disease, and
(iii) to increase access to care and support for people infected or affected by HIV/AIDS
The project's objectives support the national program by aiming to increase the use of HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and impact mitigation programs by specifically targeted vulnerable groups. The
particular focus on vulnerable groups is important because the same vulnerability factors directly
underlie the reasons for the ravaging spread of the HIV/AIDS and its adverse impact.
The ZANARA project is designed within a multi-sectoral framework, which addresses the HIV/AIDS
epidemic within a very broad context. It is a program to support the GRZ to implement an expanded
response to HIV/AIDS through supporting community-based initiatives, and also by mainstreaming
HIV/AIDS activities into all line ministries and the private sector. The support for community-based
initiatives would involve H1V/AIDS prevention programs through peer education, IEC activities and the
provision of support for appropriate VCT services. The care of orphans, widows, widowers, and home
based care for PLHA are also expected to be conducted as part of the community-based initiatives.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$14.70 million
Part (a) Support for the Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS). Under this component, the
project will support community-based responses to the challenge posed by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The
support will take the form of direct funding of community initiatives or through the facilitation of
activities by community CBOs and NGOs. There will be clearly defined eligibility criteria for
organizations and NGOs which will be funded under this component. In order to hasten the
implementation of this highly decentralized component, the already existing ZAMSIF structure within
the GRZ establishment will be utilized to channel and administer the project funds to the communities.
Although it will be difficult to specify which activities will be funded under this component, the broad
range of activities to be supported include:
(i)  Support for community-based sub-projects which have been prepared and submitted through the
agreed upon institutional structure. It is anticipated that at least 350 new community-based
initiatives will be funded during the course of the project implementation. A careful balance will
be maintained among the sub-projects between prevention, care and impact mitigation activities.
(ii)  Training of community volunteers, peer educators and trainers of trainers in HIV related
counseling. This would generate a critical mass of capable community members who will provide
counseling for HIV prevention, post-test counseling for those infected, condom promotion and
distribution, and also to optimize the care and support available to PLHA, orphans, widows,
widowers, and other vulnerable groups as outlined in the NASF.
(iii) HIV support groups. As at the time of project preparation, there are an estimated 12 districts
with I{V support groups. These support groups are formed by organizations of people living with
HIV/AIDS and are an important forum for providing psychological and material support to the
-48 -



PLHA. Under this component, it is planned to establish about 25 additional and functioning HIV
support groups spread among the districts.
(iv) Support for orphans and vulnerable children. One of the tragedies resulting from the
HlV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia is the increasing number of orphans and other vulnerable children
in the population. These children are less likely to be enrolled in primary schools and even when
enrolled, are more likely to drop out. The project will support community-based initiatives that
focus on making it possible for OVCs to remain in school. In particular, attention will be given to
school attendance among females. Support will be given to initiatives that make special provisions
for the OVCs for social services such as education and health.
(v)  Capacity building for the District Response to HIV/AIDS. The District HIV/AIDS Response
system will coordinate the HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation activities by the
communities in the districts. Under this component, the project will support the building of the
necessary capacity to manage the response. Where significant inertia is detected from the
communities in coming out with proposals, the project will undertake appropriate measures to
stimulate and facilitate the community response through workshops and consultation with the
community leaders.
Project Component 2 - US$2.50 million
Part (b) Support to NAC and its Secretariat
The NAC and it's Secretariat form the national body for coordination and M&E of the overall national
program and the project. In order to support the NAC to perform this vital task, the project will support
activities such as:
(i)  Building capacity within NAC. This would involve enhancing the capacity to provide national
leadership on HIV/AIDS, especially its role to guide a coordinated national strategy, to overcome
social and cultural barriers to HIV/AIDS, and to mobilize the line ministries, religious and cultural
organizations, organizations of PLHA, women's groups, youth groups, the private sector and other
stakeholders in facing the challenge of HIV/AIDS. The project support would include the
financing for NAC to conduct its mandated activities and support for the establishment of a viable
M&E system. Similarly, the decentralized entities for the coordination of HIV/AIDS related
activities at district level will be supported where it relates to capacity building, appraisal of
proposals and M&E.
(ii)  Coordinate project support towards HIV-related research and knowledge management The
project would provide support for NAC to fund at least two research studies on HIV/AIDS
prevention and care annually. The NAC Secretariat would also be expected to produce and
disseminate technical and operational guidelines related to all the nine TGW. Such guidelines will
be evidence-based and accessible to care providers. Similarly, local best practices will be
identified and shared with the stakeholders through HIV/AIDS periodicals, newsletters and mass
media where appropriate.
(iii) Coordinate private-public sector partnerships in facing the challenge of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. The NAC would be supported to work with civil society, such as the Zambia Business
Coalition against HIV/AIDS and the Zambia Federation of Employers, to expand its membership
within the private sector and to engage in HIV/AIDS activities that will benefit both the private as
well as the public sectors.
(iv) Conduct monitoring and evaluation of the project implementation activities. The project will
support the NAC Secretariat in performing its vital M&E role for the project, as well as to
contribute to the overall national program. As a major challenge within the context of a
-49-



multi-sector program with multiple, and very diverse implementing partners, the monitoring of all
HIV/AIDS related activities by the Council and Secretariat is a crucial issue, and the project will
finance activities that will enable capacity to be built in this area. The collection, analysis,
reporting and dissemination of the data on inputs, outputs, outcomes and impact, as well as the
conduct of specific studies for data gathering if necessary, will form the core of the activities to be
supported. The NAC Secretariat would be encouraged to consider contracting out of some
functions where its ability is limited or building that particular capacity within itself is not very
cost-effective.
Project Component 3 - US$ 21.30 million
Part (c): Support to the Line Ministries
With the specific purpose of mainstreaming HIV/AIDS-related activities to all line ministries, this project
component will support the various sector-specific responses to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. All activities
relating to line ministries, excluding the MOH, will be supported under Part (cl) of this component. In
recognition of the unique role that the MOH plays with respect to IHIV/AIDS, those activities to be
undertaken by the MOH, as defined in their workplan, as well as MOH's mainstreaming of
HIV/AIDS-related activities in its own ministry will be funded as Part (c2) of this component.
Part (cl) Support to all line ministries (except MOH). The HIV/AIDS Focal Persons in each
ministry, with support from the NAC Secretariat and their respective Permanent Secretary, would
facilitate the elaboration of annual FIV/AIDS work plans that address the following two broad areas:
(i) The internal impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the specific line ministry. The extent to
which HIV/AIDS has affected the quality, quantity and substance of available services, the ability
to supply the required services, the organization of the sector, the role of service providers, human
resources policy and management practices, the planning and management of sector resources, and
the availability of resources to the sector would provide the framework for assessing the internal
impact of the epidemic on the specific line ministry.
(ii)  The external impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic relative to the work of the specific line
ministry. The extent to which the specific sector can contribute to the prevention of further spread
of HIV in order to protect both its staff and target populations, and the increase in access to and use
of care and support for the affected or infected among staff members and their families.
Within the context of the NASF, several "catalytic projects" have been identified that constitute
recognized best practices. The ministries responsible for taking the lead in increasing the coverage of
these programs have been identified and the project will make resources available for this purpose.
Where the implementing agency is an NGO, CBO, or religious organization, support will be resourced
from the CRAIDS component [Part (a)] of the project to the extent possible.
The line ministries are considered as key public sector partners in Zambia for the fight against
HIV/AIDS, and project funds will be used for eligible expenditures as proposed in the annual work plans
elaborated by ministries. The line ministries include the MOH; Education; Sport, Youth and Child
Development; Community Development and Social Welfare; Science, Technology and Vocational
Training; Agriculture and Cooperatives; Labor and Social Security; Commerce, Trade and Industry;
Finance and National Planning; Home Affairs; Defense; Information and Broadcasting Services; Local
Government and Housing; Works and Supply; Energy and Water Development.
Budgeted work plans have been prepared which detail the activities to be implemented by each Ministry
in the first year. These first year work plans concentrate on measures to immediately protect staff,
including new recruits, in the respective ministries, on the scaling up of the catalytic projects and on
- 50 -



capacity building for the elaboration of more comprehensive and sector-specific responses. The detailed
first year work plan for each ministry is available in the project files.
In general, the activities to be considered within each of the line ministry work plans will include the
following basic range of activities:
(i)  Capacity building for the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS related activities in the ministries' work
plans.
(ii) EEC campaigns for its staff and clients awareness, promote condom use and provide for a
sustainable behavior change among its staff and the clients by extension.
(iii) Train peer educators and counselors to promote utilization of VCT services among their staff, and
provide psychological support for those affected in the Ministry.
(iv) Promote access to condoms for staff.
(v)  Promoting the prevention of MTCT among staff, piloting of routine prophylaxis against 01 for
staff that have been infected with HIV.
(vi) Impact studies to investigate the qualitative and quantitative consequences of the epidemic on
specified (sub)/sectors and analyze possible and appropriate responses.
In addition to the above areas, each line ministry will conduct activities specifically relevant to its areas
of comparative advantage. The possible activities to be supported under each of the various line
ministries include:
(a) Ministry of Education
(i)  Mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS prevention into the teachers' training curriculum and for the
orientation of new teachers employed.
(ii)  Expand HIV/AIDS and STI related counseling and testing to schools, colleges and
institutions of higher education, using peers and parents as key resources.
(iii) Establishment of support groups for teachers and other staff affected by HIV/AIDS.
(iv) Review education sector policies regarding access to school of children and teachers with
HIV/AIDS, sanctions against sexual harassment and sexual abuse by teachers and others.
(v)  Review primary, secondary and tertiary school curricula to include appropriate reproductive
health and HIV related education, produce and distribute the relevant educational materials,
and train teachers in their use; promote school- and student association- led initiatives, in
primary, secondary and tertiary education institutions.
(vi) Monitor and evaluate the impact of HIV/AIDS in the education sector, in collaboration with
other ministries and relevant agencies.
(b) Ministry of Sport, Youth and Child Development
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience through
sporting and other youth activities for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention and care
information.
(ii) Stimulate the development of youth-led HIV/AIDS initiatives, including recreation, sports club
and adolescent reproductive life and health-related initiatives.
(c) Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience through
community development activities and outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AEDS prevention
- 51 -



and care information.
(ii) Support and promote policies protecting the property as well as human rights of orphans,
widows and PLHA, to avoid disinheritance and other discriminatory practices. This activity
will be carried out in collaboration with civil society, organizations of PLHA, women
associations, and other relevant governmental and non-governmental agencies.
(iii) Stimulate the development of women-led initiatives focusing on the empowerment of women,
counseling on the use of condoms, awareness on the risks posed by early and forced marriages,
defilement, and the rights of PLHA. This activity will be carried out in collaboration with
women's organizations.
(d)  Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training
Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience through the
curriculum at the vocational training centers and other outlets for the dissemination of HIV/A1DS
prevention and care information.
(e)  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience through the
farmers associations and other outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention and care
information.
(ii) Train district trainers of agriculture and fishery extension workers on IV/AIDS counseling
and testing, and on improved nutrition, with an emphasis on locally grown foods for improving
the nutrition of PLHA, orphans and as breast-feeding alternatives.
(iii) Promote community-led and farmers' association-led H1V/AIDS initiatives in the area of
improved nutrition, with an emphasis on the nutrition of PLHA, orphans and children of
H1V-infected mothers.
(f)  Ministry of Labor and Social Security
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience through the
pensioners and their families and other outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention
and care information.
(ii) Incorporate and promote the implementation of new public service management rules and
practices that address legal, ethical and social rights of PLHA, including policies on
recruitment, leave, deployment, training, pay, exit, and welfare of public officers.
(iii) Monitor trends and the impact of HIV/AIDS in the civil service and assist the respective
ministries plan for future resource shortages
(iv) Stimulate company-led, workers associations-led and union-led HIV/AIDS initiatives at
workplaces. These activities will be targeted at particularly vulnerable professional groups
such as long distance truck drivers, migrant laborers, traders, fishermen, hotel and tourism
industry workers.
(g) Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience through the
chamber of commerce, members of the private sector and other outlets for the dissemination of
HIV/AIDS prevention and care information.
(ii) Promotion of public-private partnerships in the fight against HIV/AIDS in Zambia.
(h) Ministry of Finance and National Planning
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and other
- 52 -



relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention and care information.
(ii) Mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS prevention messages on salary pay checks and other avenues.
(i)  Ministry of Home Affairs
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and other
relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention and care information.
(ii) Provide targeted HIV prevention, care and mitigation services for all police and prison workers
and populations.
(iii) Train police and prison health care providers, care givers and social workers and counselors on
HIV/AlDS prevention, diagnosis, clinical management and social support.
(iv) Train police and prison managers in H1V/AIDS control activity management.
(j)  Ministry of Defense
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and other
relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention and care information.
(ii) Provide targeted HIV prevention, care and mitigation services for all members of the armed
forces and their families.
(iii) Train armed forces health care providers, care givers and social workers and counselors on
HIV/AIDS prevention, diagnosis, clinical management and social support.
(iv) Train armed forces managers in HIV/AIDS control activity management.
(k)  Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Services
Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience through various
externally directed EEC activities and other relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS
prevention and care information to the general public.
(1)  Ministry of Local Government and Housing
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and other
relevant outlets for the dissemination of H{IV/AIDS prevention and care information to the
general public.
(ii) Review, harmonize and supervise the application of district-based policies and regulations
concerning HIV/AIDS.
(m) Ministry of Energy and Water Development
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and other
relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention and care information to the
general public.
(ii) Devise strategies for high capture audience through use utility bills and focus on water
collection points for HIV/AIDS prevention messages.
(n) Ministry of Works and Supply
(i) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and other
relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention and care information to the
general public.
(ii) Ensure all construction contracts include HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities for the
work force.
- 53 -



(iii) Promote company- and union-led HIV/AIDS initiatives, targeted to mobile workers.
(iv) Scale up existing initiatives within the Ministry of Works, for example, the Drama Club
activities.
Part (c2) Support to the Ministry of Health. As the impact of the epidemic is increasingly placing
demands on MOH, it has a unique role to play in the implementation and support, and mitigation of the
impact of HIV/AIDS for those affected and infected. An HIV/AIDS Work plan, indicating how
ZANARA will support the Ministry in its efforts, has been prepared. The focus of this support is on:
(i) scaling up of youth friendly health services, since prevalence among the 15 to 19 year old has
registered a decline.
(ii) increasing the number of VCT centers at health facilities, as well as support positive living 'post test
clubs'.
(iii) strengthening the capacity to treat Ols, thereby improving the quality of live and preventing
premature death.
(iv) providing anti-retroviral drugs to improve the PMTCT program (including treatment of mothers and
fathers recruited into the PMTCT program); and post-exposure propylaxis in rape and sexual abuse
victims, as well as accidental contamination in health workers.
(v) improving laboratory support services in HIV/AIDS.
(vi) increasing awareness through IEC interventions.
(vii) support for M&E activities, including establishing an effective surveillance system and
strengthening the existing information system.
In addition to the above activities, which are, by and large, focussed on its clients, the Ministry of Health
will also:
(i)  Mainstream HIV/AIDS prevention into the curriculum of all institutions of training for health care
workers.
(ii) Improve blood safety and quality control with the national blood transfusion system by providing
HIV testing kits and maintaining high standards.
(iii) Promote occupational safety for workers in the Ministry through improved and safe handling of
laboratory and other medical waste, training of medical and support staff on occupational safety
relevant to HIV transmission and provision of clear guidelines in cases of accidental occupational
exposure to HIV.
(iv) Promote job security for members of staff affected by HIV/AIDS while minimizing exposure risks
of un-infected external clients in the health sector.
(v) Provide support to other ministries in their HIV/AIDS related activities.
Project Component 4 - US$3.50 million
Part (d) Program Administration. Under this component, the project will support the PAU located
within MOFNPfor the day-to-day administration of project activities. Support will be provided to PAU
to monitor resource use, process all central procurement activities, administer withdrawal and
disbursement procedures, consolidate the financial management aspects of project implementation, and
consolidate project reporting. During the course of project implementation, Government, IDA and other
partners will assess whether this institutional arrangement is still the most appropriate.
- 54 -



- 55 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
Local        Foreign -     Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million  US $million   US $million
Part A: CRAIDS                                             13.82         0.88         14.70
Part B: National AIDS Council                               2.32         0.48          2.80
Part C: Line Ministries                                    10.50        11.50         22.00
Part D: Project Administration                              2.23         0.27          2.50
Total Baseline Cost                                        28.87        13.13         42.00
Physical Contingencies                                     0.90         0.10          1.00
Price Contingencles                                        0.90         0.10          1.00
Total Project Costs'             30.67         13.33        44.00
Total Financing Required              30.67         13.33        44.00
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million  US $million   US $million
Goods                                                        8.60          12.00        20.60
Works                                                        0.20           0.00         0.20
Technical Assistance, Services, Training, Workshops          9.50           0.60         10.10
Grants: CRAIDS                                               8.60           0.00         8.60
Incremental Operating Costs                                  4.50           0.00         4.50
Total Project Costs      31.40         12.60         44.00
Total Financing Required      31.40         12.60         44.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 46 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 0% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 56 -



Annex 4 Monitoring and Evaluation
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
The overall aim of the HIV/AIDS project is to reduce the spread of HrV and mitigate its impact. The
short term objective of the project is to increase the use of HIV prevention, care and impact mitigation
services by targeted vulnerable groups through activities under the four project components. During the
preparation, a logical framework was developed and finalized for the project in a participatory manner,
and joint performance indicators were agreed upon for the project inputs/output and also for the
outcomes/impact according to established guidelines. A detailed performance monitoring plan was
developed on the basis of the logical framework and the selected indicators. The project will support the
establishment of an M&E system within the NAC Secretariat to perform the critical task of project
monitoring and evaluation during project implementation. The system will provide valuable information
for project management, and for other stakeholders and external parties.
The M&E system will collect data broadly categorized into two groups:
(i)  Operational data. These are derived from the day-to-day project activities, including all project
inputs, supervisory information and the outputs resulting from project's activities. This category of
information will focus on the process aspects of project implementation and align those processes
with the overall project development objectives. The information will be collected by the M&E
unit at the NAC from the various implementing agencies. The CRAIDS component will make
input of the relevant data collected through the ZAMSIF M&E system. The line ministry
information on project input and outputs will be collected by the HIV/AIDS focal points and
forwarded to the central M&E unit in NAC.
(ii)  Epidemiological data. These data relate more to the project outcomes and the impact on the
epidemic. These data sources will track the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zambia and assess the impact
of Zambia's national HIV/AIDS program. The serological, behavioral and social surveys being
conducted by the various intemal and external partners in Zambia will provide valuable
information to the M&E system.
The M&E unit will be the central clearing house for all the information collected within the two
categories outlined above. The unit will synthesize the information collected and provide:
(i)  Easily accessible, timely information on the project inputs, outputs and outcomes so that project
management can be responsive, if not proactive.
(ii) Identify intra-country variations in HIV/AIDS epidemiology to support the design of effective
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation operations
(iii) Engage stakeholders by sharing information on progress done, lessons learnt and improvements to
be done through a participatory evaluation of project activities at all levels. This would provide a
basis for information to be shared and compared with others nationally as well as in the sub-region.
The multi-sectoral nature of the response supported by the project necessitates a significant investment
into the monitoring and evaluation system. The system will have to capture inputs and outputs from
implementation channels of variable degrees of efficiency and effectiveness. The decentralized level
implementation will also need to provide incentive for participation in the project monitoring and
evaluation. The commitment to beneficiary and stakeholder involvement in decision-making and in
implementation will be enhanced if the M&E system can provide real-time information to NAC and to
the other decentralized decision-makers in both the public sector and the private sector.
- 57 -



The institutional capacity for M&E within NAC will be strengthened early on during project
implementation by providing specific technical assistance. There will be a need for sufficient capacity to
collect, analyze and report the input/output data related to the project activities from the district level to
the national level on an ongoing fashion. At the national level there are various agencies, external to the
Government structure, which can provide useful data in terms of the outcomes and impact indicators.
The establishment of a link with a local research institution like the Institute for Economic and Social
Research/ University of Zambia will help draw upon locally available expertise and skills, and also
facilitate capacity building that can be retained.
At the district and decentralized levels of implementation, the key stakeholders include the DATF, the
District Planning Sub-Committees, the NGO/CBOs involved with HIV/AIDS activities and the
communities. The information generated through the decentralized level coordination can be captured
through the existing ZAMSIF M&E system which can then feed into the overall national level M&E
system. The ZAMSIF Poverty M&E component will provide very useful input to the project M&E Unit
and also to the overall national HIV/AIDS program in terms of social and economic data and indices. A
geographic mapping approach will also be incorporated into the M&E system. The real time data
collated from the comnmunities and the decentralized implementation agencies can be presented through
the geographic mapping system to capture the intra-country variations in project inputs/outputs, and any
mismatch in resource applications.
At the national level, the key users of the system will include each of the line ministries and their
decentralized units, the Zambia Business Coalition, the NGO/CBOs and the organizations of PLHA. The
M&E Unit will consolidate the inforination from all the sources and use it as a valuable monitoring tool
on an on going basis for project management The linkages between the project reporting mechanisms
and the national program level M&E have been clearly established.
Project performance indicators
Key performance indicators for the project have been selected to reflect the project's input/output
(processes) and the outcomes/impact.
The input indicators include the: (i) number of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation
community initiatives funded through Part (a) of the project; (ii) number and availability of HIV VCT
sernices in the districts; (iii) percentage of public sector training institutions with HIV/AIDS prevention
education integrated into their curriculum; (iv) number of districts with functioning HIV support groups;
and (v) number of operational research studies on HIV prevention conducted and reported. The output
indicators include the number of: (i) ministries who have sensitized their staff, (ii) peer educators and
counselors in HIV/AIDS prevention and care trained in each ministry, (iii) ministries with budget line
items for HIV/AIDS-related programs, and (iv) DATFs that are functional.
The outcome indicators selected for the project are behavior change indicators. These include the: (i)
median age at first sex encounter increased by one year in both males and females by 2008; (ii) reported
condom use at last sex encounter with a non-regular partner increased from 30 to 45 % for males and
from 17 to 30% for females by 2008; (iii) percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who are mothers or
pregnant with their first child reduced from 59% to 45% by 2008; and (iv) increase in primary school
enrollment and completion rate among orphans and vulnerable children supported under Part (a) of the
project by 2008. The impact indicators are the reduction in HIV prevalence among: (i) young people
aged 15 to 19 years by 2008; and (ii) antenatal women aged less than 20 years by 2008.
There has been sufficient data generated in Zambia on which to base the project's impact and outcome
indicators. The baselines for these indicators have been identified, and their monitoring will not involve a
- 58 -



specially conducted survey because they are routinely obtained. The project evaluation process will
begin at MTR, when the existing data collected through the M&E system by the M&E Unit would be
collated and analyzed specifically relative to the achievements or lack thereof of the goals set by the
project. During the project preparation process, attempt was made to set realistic and achievable targets.
By the mid-term it should be possible to evaluate whether the project is moving in the right direction or
not. In the event that significant weaknesses manifest during implementation, the annual reviews would
provide timely opportunity to address such before the project implementation is concluded. It is
expected that the final evaluation of the project will be participatory and will also include beneficiary
assessment.
- 59 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIVIAIDS (ZANARA)
Years Ending
2008
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD                -      -
i  Year 1    Year 2    Year 3     Year4     Year5     Year6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           4.5       8.0        9.0       9.0       5.5       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          6.5      10.0       11.0      11.0       7.5       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              6.5      10.0       11.0      11.0       7.5       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  6.0        9.0      10.0       10.0       7.0      0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Central                0.5        1.0       1.0        1.0      0.5       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiarles     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     6.0       9.0       10.0      10.0       7.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 60 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
Procurement
Procurement for project preparation. The project preparation facility (PPF) are funds to finance
consulting services, urgent office equipment etc. Contracts are being awarded based on the PPF Letter
Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and the
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. (See para 3 below)
Procurement under the project. Of the four components comprising the project, namely: (i) support
for CRAIDS (US$14.7 million); (ii) support to NAC & its Secretariat (US$ 2.5 million); (iii), support to
the line ministries (US$21.3 million); and (iv) program aministration (US$3.5 million), it is not possible
to determine the exact mix of goods and services to be procured under the first component, where
sub-projects will be identified as the project is implemented. For the other components, where feasible,
the procurement requirements have been defined. Details of procurement and sources of funds for each
procurement will be specified in the PIP and will conform with the Government's procurement
requirements and with the IDA guidelines. Procurement methods will be defined each year, where
possible, when the procurement plan is discussed and finalized. Consequently, aggregate amount of
procurement by each method cannot be definitely assessed and defined at this stage (but estimates are
used for the present) for a part of the project. During appraisal, discussions were held on the details of
the procurement plan (including procurement methods) for the items that can be planned for under this
project, as well as sources of funds for each activity. The summary of proposed procurement
arrangements are presented in Table A below.
IDA financed grants and credits will be utilized for goods, training, consultancy, and operating costs
under the project. Procurement for all IDA financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting services by firms or
individuals will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September 1997; January 1, 1999 and
May 2002).
Consultant selection for assignments will usually be addressed through competition among qualified
short-listed firms and individuals in which the selection will be based on QCBS by evaluation of the
quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of services to be provided. In addition, selection shall
also be done based on CQ and other methods as provided for in the guidelines. Short lists for contracts
estimated to cost under US$ 200,000 may be comprised entirely of national consulting firms if a
sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if
foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded. Contracts less than US$ 100,000 each
for firms, may be contracted on the basis of CQ. Contracts less than US$ 50,000 for individuals may be
awarded on the basis of their qualifications in accordance with Section V of the Bank's Consultants'
Guidelines (hereinafter called IC procedure). Contracts may be awarded on a single source basis only in
exceptional circumstances, after adequate justification and prior review by IDA for all those estimated to
cost more than US$ 5,000. For contracts of a routine nature estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and
where established practices and standards exist such as financial audits, least cost method of selection
may be used.
Goods procurement will be carried out in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
- 61 -



Loans and IDA Credits (January 1996, August 1996, September 1997, January 1999). Under the project
goods expected to be procured include condoms, HIV/AIDS testing kits, drugs and medical supplies,
equipment, vehicles, furniture, computers, etc. Contracts of individual value of US$ 100,000 equivalent,
or more, will be awarded on the basis of ICB. To the extent possible, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into packages estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more and will be procured through
International ICB. The ICB procurements shall be carried out by the Procurement Unit of the PAU. Small
value goods procurement contracts (individual value of less than US$ 100,000 equivalent will be
awarded on the basis of NCB subject to an aggregate ceiling of US$ 11.0 million equivalent. The
standard bidding document for NCB will be submitted to IDA by the PAU for prior review and approval.
For the CRAIDS component, contracts up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 100,000 equivalent
may be procured under community participation arrangements using the simplified formats set forth in
the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for CBI. Goods estimated to cost less than
US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through shopping procedures by soliciting at least
three quotations from different suppliers, in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines and the June 9, 2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping" issued by the
Bank, subject to an aggregate ceiling of US$ 900,000 equivalent. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$ 50,000 maybe procured through United Nations Agencies IAPSO in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.9 of Bank Guidelines, subject to an aggregate ceiling of US$ 500,000 equivalent; this
includes urgent requirements set out below.
Urgent requirements. Notwithstanding the general provisions of paragraph 5 above, given the urgency
of the program, and to facilitate speedy procurement of urgently required drugs and items required
immediately for institutional strengthening, specific contracts will be handled by the PAU in the
following exceptional manner:
(i)  Drugs for 01, HIV test kits, syphilis test kits, reagents for infection control and TB laboratory
reagents, estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$
1,000,000 may be procured through international shopping;
(ii) Computers and accessories, office and power equipment for new PAU and NAC Secretariat staff
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of US$ 100,000 may be procured through shopping or
contracted from the UN Agency (IAPSO); and
(iii) Vehicles (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 350,000 equivalent) for initial management
of the project may be procured from IAPSO and/or National Shopping procedures (preferably from
bonded warehouses' on a competitive basis).
All contracts and deliveries (i.e. arrivals in the project site) under the above stated 'emergency
requirements' must be completed within 12 months from the project effectiveness date. The list of these
items and their estimated value - within the framework of the details mentioned in (i) to (iii) above - will
be agreed upon with IDA and incorporated in the Procurement Plan. The procurement and timely
distribution of the goods will be the responsibility of PAU.
Works procurement will be carried out in accordance with Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1996, August 1996, September 1997, January 1999). The civil works to
be included in this project would generally be small civil works projects i.e. minor works or
refurbishment and rehabilitation and therefore there will be no ICB contracts. Contracts exceeding US$
50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 200,000 will be awarded on the basis of NCB. Individual
contracts estimated to cost $50,000 or less may be procured under community participation arrangements
using the simplified formats set forth in the Guidelinesfor Simplified Procurement and Disbursementfor
Community-based Investments. Individual contracts (other than for CRAIDS component) estimated to
cost less than US$ 50,000 may be awarded through National Shopping using approved procedures. For
- 62 -



the line ministries component, works contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 10,000 equivalent per
contract will not be eligible for financing under the program. The National Shopping for works
procedure to be adopted here is to award lump sum fixed price contracts on the basis of written
solicitation issued to at least three qualified civil works contractors and after evaluation of the bids which
would be received in writing. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA and the
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award of the contracts will be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided the contractor demonstrates the required
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Training activities will comprise hiring consultants for developing training materials and conducting
training and support for training programs. Training, workshops and study tours will be carried out on the
basis approved annual work programs that will identify the general framework of training activities for
the year, including the type of training/ study tours/ workshops, the number of trainees, cost estimates,
etc. Procurement of these will also follow IDA procurement guidelines using the Quality Based
selection method or Consultant Qualification for firms or the IC procedure for individuals.
The General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business and local
newspapers at least 60 days prior to the issue of bid documents. The GPN will be updated on an annual
basis and will show all outstanding ICB for goods and consulting services. Specific Procurement Notices
in accordance with the guidelines will be issued for ICB contracts and before preparation of short lists
with respect to consulting contracts above US$ 200,000.
Procurement planning. The Procurement Planning Schedules covering mainly goods and consultancy
services are not yet finalized. Given that the individual projects to be financed will be defined later
(during project implementation), the major part of the funds for CRAIDS cannot be defined at this stage.
For some components (strengthening of procurement functions, financial management systems, etc), line
ministries activities, the procurement plans are to be defined and included in the PIP. Given the
importance of the procurement plans, these will be finalized on priority basis and their agreement with
Bank is a "condition of effectiveness".
Implementation arrangements. The Procurement work will be done in two main parts. For the
CRAIDS component comprising community based sub-projects, where the existing structures and
methodology of ZAMSIF project (see below) will be adopted. The ZAMSIF organization will render
reports for the EIV/AIDS project to the Project Administration Unit (PAU).
ZAMSIF-based community projects (CRAIDS). For the ZAMSIF based component, the communities
or NGOs will be prepare sub-project proposals which will be approved through the District Planning
sub-committee. After that ZAMSIF will be responsible for supervising and coordinating the procurement
by the communities and also disbursing funds to the communities. ZAMSIF is already existing and is
implementing community driven projects with this system. The work program to be implemented will be
based on the applications received from the communities from a menu of approved activities.
Procurement will be done using the simplified procurement procedures as those prevailing under the
ZAMSIF.
Procurement unit. The Procurement Unit will have the overall responsibility of carrying out
procurement, managing and supervising the implementation of the procurement function as well as
providing procurement support and capacity building in the implementing agencies. The Procurement
Unit at the PAUwill comprise a Procurement Manager/ Specialist assisted by a Procurement Officer.
- 63 -



For the community driven component the existing ZAMSIF structure will be utilized with the addition of
one Procurement & Costing Specialist to specifically responsible for the HIV/AIDS component. The rest
of the procurement will be primarily done by the Procurement Unit in the PAU. The PAU is located in
the Ministry of Finance and National Planning (MOFNP).
Line ministries and NAC will also be gradually involved in their own procurement, starting in a small
way and doing more as capacity is built up. This will entail procurement of goods, works and services
within the agreed thresholds (see below).
Procurement arrangements and reporting responsibilities
(Chart is available at the end of this Annex 6 )
Procurement capacity assessments of the implementing agencies i.e. the PAU, 6 line ministries,
ZAMSIF, one district council and one ZAMSIF regional office have revealed that procurement staffing
levels for line ministries are adequate, and that the line ministries are operating under thresholds certified
by Zambia National Tender Board (which are higher than the thresholds being proposed under
ZANARA). However, most of the line ministries have limited or no experience in implementation of
Bank financed projects therefore, training and capacity building in Bank procurement procedures and
guidelines will need to be carried out. Some of the line ministries' and ZAMSIF Management Unit's
procurement capacity assessments were satisfactory as they have gained experience from implementing
other Bank financed projects and have a good track record. At the district council level the procurement
capacity is very weak as the relevant structures are not in place and there are very limited procurement
activities and generally most of the procurements are using the shopping method. ZAMSIF in
conjunction with the District Councils has put in place institutional arrangements and training programs
to strengthen the procurement capacity.
PAU has not yet been established. Centralized procurement for items above the thresholds for the
ministries will be carried out by the PAU including providing the procurement support to the other
beneficiary agencies under the project. A complete Procurement Capacity Assessment has not been
undertaken because the PAU organization has not yet been established. Therefore, such aspects as
procurement cycle management , record keeping and organizations and functions for procurement
management could not be assessed. These aspects will be reviewed as the project proceeds and the
organization is actually set up. Such a review will establish if the reporting arrangements and
procurement set up is suitable for the efficient procurement.
Community Response to HIV/AIDS. The project through the CRAIDS component will support
community based projects. The CRAIDS component will be carried out by ZAMSIF. ZAMSIF is a
Govermnent Department under the MOFNP that is semi-autonomous which supports community based
development through the CIF and the DIF. Through these existing structures of ZAMSIF CRAIDS will
fund community based activities and will address prevention of HIV/AIDS as well as provide care and
support to those affected by HIV/AIDS. The CRAIDS component will provide support to the following
activities VCT; condoms promotion and distribution, peer education, community health education,
support to youth programs, information dissemination, minor civil works, and capacity building support
to District Councils. As procurement capacity is strengthened at district level then the districts will be
given increased procurement responsibility - the details will be defined later on.
An operations manual has been prepared for the community based component CRAIDS which provides
guidelines for procurement for the community-based projects. In addition, a Procurement Manual for all
components is also being prepared. This will be ready by effectiveness and is a condition of
-64-



effectiveness.
ZAMSIF will be responsible -for ensuring compliance with the guidelines and ex-post procurement
reviews will be carried out for a random sample of sub-projects periodically by the Bank and district staff
of the ZAMSIF Management Unit.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.   'Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.30          0.00         0.00        0.30
(0.00)          (0.20)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.20)
2. Goods                            7.50            8.00          2.65         0.00        18.15
(7.20)          (7.00)        (2.40)       (0.00)     (16.60)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          13.30        0.00        13.30
and Training                        (0.00)         (0.00)        (13.30)       (0.00)     (13.30)
4. Grants to Communities            0.00            0.00          8.60         0.00        8.60
(0.00)          (0.00)        (8.60)       (0.00)      (8.60)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00          5.60         0.00        5.60
Costs                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.30)        (0.00)     (3.30)
Total                             7.50            8.30         30.15         0.00       45.95
(7.20)          (7.20)        (27.60)      (0.00)      (42.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 65 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The procurement of goods whose contracts are valued at US$ 100,000 or more will require prior review
by IDA.
For works, all contracts valued at US$ 100,000 or more will require prior review by IDA. All contracts
exceeding the value of US$ 100,000 under the emergency procurement procedure (para. 6 above) will be
subject to IDA prior review.
The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the borrower for
those consultancy contracts to be awarded to firms and individuals. Prior review will not be required for
contracts worth less than US$ 100,000 for firms and contracts worth less than US$ 50,000 for
individuals. However, IDA will review: (a) all Terms of Reference of contracts, regardless of value; (b)
all single-source contracts exceeding US$ 5,000; (c) assignments of a critical nature as determined by
IDA; and (d) amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the prior review thresholds. Prior
review will be required for the training plan.
Prior review by the PAU's procurement unit
The PAU and the Zambia National Tender Board will define prior review thresholds for the line
ministries, communities, districts, etc., in consultation with IDA, when the prior review will be
conducted by the PAU's Procurement Unit. The prior review thresholds will be set differently for each of
three levels of procurement capability for which these agencies will be categorized suitably. PAU will
periodically review and revise the categorization and thresholds (below) of individual Implementing
Agencies based on demonstrated improvements in procurement capability.
The current thresholds agreed are for three categories as below.
Goods up to (USD)  Works up to (USD) Consultants up to (USD)
Category I (Best Capacity)    30,000                15,000                8,000
Category 11 (Medium Capacity)  10,000               10,000                4,000
Category III (Least Capacity)  4,000                 4,000                1,000
The criteria for categorization of each implementing agency will be the level of procurement proficiency.
Category ratings for selected ministries and agencies
Name of implementing agency         Procurement capability rating
Cabinet Office                                      Category III
Ministry of Community Development & Social Services  Category III
Ministry of Finance & National Planning             Category ll
Ministry of Health                                   Category II
- 66 -



Ministry of Science, Technical & Vocational Training  Category III
Project Adminiistration Unit (PAU)                 Category III
Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)              Category II
District Councils                                  Category III
(Category ratings for other supported ministries and agencies will be completed before effectiveness)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold,             Procur.ement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (uS$'thousands)           'Meth6d              (OS$'thousands)
1. Works                      >50,000                   NCB                100,000 or more
<50,000               Quotations                None
2. Goods                      <100,000                  NCB               >First 3 contracts
>100,000                  ICB                100,000 or more
<30,000            Shopping/IAPSO               None
Emergency requirements
as detailed above         (Drugs) <200,000            Shopping                  All
(Equipment) <100,000      Shopping/IAPSO                All
3. Services                   >100,000                 QCBS                100,000 or more
<100,000               CQ & LCS                  None
Individuals                    >50,000                  CQ                 50,000 and more
<50,000                   CQ                     None
Firms/lndividual
>5,000               Single Source               All
<5,000               Single Source              None
4. Training Workshops          >50,000                  QBS                    None
& Seminars                     <50,000                    CQ                    None
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
The PAU will conduct quarterly reviews of the procurement work of the decentralized agencies on a
selective basis. will have procurement audits conducted on an annual basis for its own use and for use by
Bank.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 67 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Financial management
The project will be administered by the PAU, while the NAC is responsible for the co-ordination
of the activities by various implementing entities. The MOF is accountable for the proceeds of
the entire Grant. The flow of funds is as follows:
Figure 1 Flow of Funds
Special Account "A"                              Special Account "B"
Part (a) CRAIDS      j                           Parts (b), (c) & (d)
Grants   DstrictResponse  NAC Coordination       MOieHiisre                    Program
CBO/NGOs           &ME&LnMistesAdministration
Capacity Building                   National Program
Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992
edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the IDA Grant Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the IDA Grant account
will be fully documented except for expenditures against contracts: (i) with an estimated value of
US$ 100,000 each or less for works; (ii) with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 or less for consulting
firms and goods; (iii) with an estimated value of US$ 50,000 or less for individual consultants; and (iv)
for all training workshops and study tours, which may be claimed on the basis of certified SOEs.
Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained at the PAU (for Parts B, C
and D of the Project), and at ZAMSIF (for Part A of the Project) and will be available for review as
requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
The allocation of IDA Grant proceeds are shown in Table C; the proceeds of the IDA grant would be
made against 100% of consultant services and training, 85% of all expenditures on all local expenditures
for goods and 100% of expenditures on all foreign expenditures for goods, and 100% of all expenditures
for IDA-financed components of community initiatives under the CRAIDS component. As projected by
the Banks standard disbursements profile, disbursement would be completed by four months after project
closure. Disbursement would be made against standard IDA documentation.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
E xpendiitue Category        Amount In US$mfilion         Financing Percentage
Goods                                      20.00                   100% of Foreign
85% of Local
Technical services, consultants'           10.18                        100%
- 68 -



services, and training
Grants to Community Initiatives            8.62                        100%
Works                                      0.20                   100% of Foreign
85% of Local
Incremental Operating Costs                2.57                        50%
Refinancing of PPF                         0.43                        100%
Total Project Costs                       42.00
Total                                     42.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Parts a, b, c and d (Special Accounts 'A' and 'B')
During the negotiations, the borrower informed the Bank of its decision to use the traditional
transaction-based method of disbursement. Thus, disbursement procedures as outlined in the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook will be followed for all components and during the life of the project, i.e.
Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitments. By appointing an internationally qualified
person as Finance Manager in the Program Administration Unit, and engaging a consultant to design
and implement ZANARA Project's financial management system, it would be possible for the client to
produce FMRs, as required by the Bank.
Under the project SOEs will be submitted for withdrawals from the IDA Grant Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for (i) goods under contracts costing less than US$ 100,000
equivalent each; (ii) services under contracts costing less than (A) US$ 100,000 equivalent each for
consulting firms, and (B) US$ 50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (iii) all Incremental
Operating Costs and training; and (iv) all Grants to communities under the CRAIDS component costing
less than US$ 50,000 equivalent each.
Replenishment of funds from IDA to the Special Accounts 'A' and 'B' will be made on evidence of
satisfactory utilization of the previous advance , reflected in the consolidated SOEs prepared by the
PAU. Withdrawal applications for direct payment and special commitments will be for a minimum of
US$ 100,000 or 20 percent of the SA authorized allocations, whichever is lower.
Special account:
The ZANARA Project will maintain 2 Special Accounts in a Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA as
follows:
Special Account A, in USD, will exclusively service Part (a) of the project, and will be maintained by
ZAMSIF. The funding to the communities will be based on approved project proposals. All community
based activities will be handled through ZAMSIF. Approval of the proposals for funding will be by
the NAC. On approval the communities will be provided with accountable advances for eligible
qualifying activities and will be required to report on the usage of the funds using agreed formats.
Additional funding will only be available after accounting for the previous advance.
Communities will be expected to maintain separate Kwacha Bank Accounts for IDA funds
received from ZAMSIF. Before funds are transferred to the community an assessment will be
made of the existence of, at least a basic accounting system and knowledgeable staff to record the
transactions and produce basic financial reports of Receipts and Payments. Detailed accounting
- 69 -



and processing procedures are as per the CRAIDS Implementation Manual appearing as
Appendix A.
Special Account B in USD, will finance Parts (b), (c) and (d) of the project. The activities under these
components will be funded according to approved annual and quarterly work programs. Following the
approval of the work program accountable advances will be provided for eligible qualifying activities in
accordance with procedures documented in the FMPPM. Replenishments will be on a monthly basis
after satisfactory submission of reconciliations to the PAU. The reconciliation will consist of a bank
statement and the supporting documents for any expenditure.
A Kwacha account will be maintained at a commercial bank exclusively for Part A component of
ZANARA with a separate set of books and accounts.
Other Kwacha accounts will be opened for each Components Parts B and D and for each of the
participating ministries for component (c). These are individual accounts for ZANARA and separate
books and accounts will be maintained for them.
Bank account signing arrangements will allow for two panel signatories. All bank accounts will be
reconciled monthly. Full detailed accounting and control procedures will be documented in the FMPPM.
As part of eligibility criteria, a Financial Management capacity assessment will be made by the Finance
Manager before funds are transferred to the component recipients. Recommendations for improvements
will be made where weaknesses are identified and assistance can be provided.
General (Financial Management)
The NAC has responsibility for the coordination of the activities under the ZANARA project. The NAC
working under a Cabinet Committee of Ministers for H1V/AIDS will establish a secretariat to provide
Technical guidance and implement Council decisions. A PAU will be established comprising the
ZANARA Project Manager (PM), including Finance, Procurement and Monitoring Managers located at
the MOFNP until such time that requisite capacity has been created at the NAC to assume these
responsibilities, if appropriate. Under the supervision of the PM, the Finance Manager will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures to be put in place will be
acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other Cooperating Partners. ZANARA proposes to
use the existing GRZ Financial regulations to govern the financial procedures for the project funds. The
accounting functions for the project will be incorporated within the existing GRZ structures at MOFNP.
The principal objective of the ZANARA project's FMS will be to support management in the
deployment of resources with due regard to economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the fight against
HIV/AIDS and the subsequent relief to the people of Zambia. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of
producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the project's overall progress towards the
achievement of the objectives. The ZANARA Project FMS will be developed in accordance with the
Action Plan presented in Section B below.
Financial Management Action Plan
Financial Management and Procurement Committee (FMPC)
Reporting to the Permanent Secretary of the MOFNP, a representative of FMPC will be appointed to
review the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) comprising:
(i)  Financial reports. The reports will include as a minimum a statement showing for the period and
- 70 -



cumulatively cash receipts by sources and expenditures by main expenditure categories; the
starting and closing cash balances; and supporting schedules comparing actual and planned
expenditures. Members of the FMPC will review and approve Quarterly and Annual Financial
Statements; they will examine material variances between budget and actual figures, seeking
appropriate remedial action within an agreed timeframe.
(ii) Physical Progress reports. The reports will include accompanying narrative interpreting the
Program's progress with agreed performance(output) indicators and how costs to date relate to
those planned at appraisal; highlight issues that require attention and the likely effect on the
Program by completion.
(iii) Procurement reports The reports will provide information on procurement of Goods, Works and
Services; including the selection of Consultants; and compliance with agreed procurement
methods.
The format and contents of FMRs will be agreed with IDA.
Staffing
The recruitment of staff has started and an internationally qualified Finance Manager will be appointed
to direct and guide the financial operations. To assist the Finance Manager suitably qualified and
experienced staff will be made available from MOFNP or competitively sourced from the open market.
Varying levels of staff training may be required in financial management, government accounting;
information systems and computer applications; and procedures relating to the utilization of funds (e.g.
Special Accounts, Disbursements, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement, etc.). On-the-job training
will be provided.
Accounting System/Financial Procedures/Internal Audit
A Financial Management Consultant will be recruited to advise on the selection and installation of the
Program's computerized FMS (using an integrated accounts package) which must be compatible with
IFMS at MOFNP, to prepare the (FMPPM and to train staff in the operation of the system. Provision has
been made in the Project Preparation Fund budget for recruiting the consultant, procuring computer
hardware and software. The consultant and the Finance Manager will be required to train the recipient
ministries in IDA guidelines/procedures, and communities in basic bookkeeping and provide accounting
guidelines. [An operations manual will spell out: eligibility criteria and eligible expenditures
description; funding mechanisms and channel forflow of funds to recipients; review and screening
and authorization (ex-ante); payments; accountability and transparency measures; monitoring and
compliance assessment (ex-post); relation with IDA and other donors and methods of withdrawal; forms
andformats.]
The Internal Audit Department at MOFNP and ZAMSIF will be involved in the periodic review of the
project's activities. Due to the large resources going down to the Community level it is proposed that
extensive internal audits are carried out for all funds transferred to the Community with reasonable
frequency. The Internal audit should work in close collaboration with the M&E Unit. Through well
structured workshops the Communities can be sensitized to provide the internal checks at the community
level.
- 71 -



Planning and Budgeting. Counterpart Funding if part of this project will be approved in line with the
Government's budgetary process. The Finance Manager, in consultation with the PM, the Procurement,
the Monitoring Manager and the FMPC, will be responsible for preparing the Program's Consolidated
Quarterly/Annual, Work plans and Cash Flow Forecast in line with generally accepted accounting
practice.
Government Accounting - Cash vs. Accruals Base. The ZANARA Project will meet the MOFNP
requirement for modified cash accounting. Thus, for the period of the project, Project funds will be
accounted for on a cash basis.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services. Procurement procedures will be documented in the
FMPPM. World Bank and Government procurement regulations will be observed. The Finance
Manager and support staff must be conversant with those procedures, as internal control issues and the
incurring of liabilities on behalf of the Project will be matters of concern to the financial management
function. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments,
will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMPC (see above).
Withdrawals/Disbursements. Existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook will be applied on the project, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursements and Special
Commitments. By appointing an internationally qualified person as Finance Manager, and engaging a
consultant to design and implement ZANARA Project's FMS, it should be possible for the client to move
towards report (FMR)-based disbursements as a possible option. However, considering the nature of the
project:anticipated rapid disbursements and it's short duration(4 years) the Client has decided to stick to
the transaction based disbursements for the duration of the project.
Fixed Assets/Civil Works/Consultants. Control procedures will be documented in the FMPPM. A
Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. Regarding Capital Work in
Progress, controls will be established to ensure that payments are made only for certified work (including
physical verification). A Contracts Register will be maintained for all contracts with consultants. A
Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be
prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMPC.
Financial Reporting
(i)  Monthly Cash. In compliance with Government requirements, the Finance Manager will be
responsible for preparing a Monthly Return to the Accountant General, MOFNP.
(ii) Quarterly. Financial Monitoring Reports will be produced and submitted to the FMPC
(iii) Annually. The Program's Financial Statements will include:
(a) A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds analyzed by Cooperating Partner (
i.e., IDA, counterpart and donor funds; uses of funds according to categories)
(b)  Program Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
(c)  Notes on significant accounting policies and standards adopted by management when
preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or explanations deemed
appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view";
(d)  A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts to the bank balances on
the Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds;
(d)  SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
(e)  A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
- 72 -



Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank publications -
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (January 1995), Financial Monitoring Reports:
Guidelines to Staff/Borrowers (November 30, 2001). In due course, the agreed formats adopted by the
FMPC will be documented in the FMPM.
External Audit
Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the financial year
end. In Zambia, the Office of the Auditor General (AG), as outlined in the Constitution of Zambia Act
1996, is responsible for the external auditing of all Government Funds. In practice, because of capacity
constraints, the AG frequently appoints relevantly qualified, experienced and independent private sector
auditors as his/her agents on approved terms of reference. In such cases, the private sector auditor
reports directly to the AG who retains the overall signing responsibility for the audit opinion. Besides
expressing a primary opinion on thefinancial statements in compliance with International Auditing
Standards (IFAC/INTOSAI), the AG must include a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and
propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied
upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding the Special Account, the AG will also be expected to
form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end.
Additionally, the AG will be required to prepare a separate Management Letter giving observations and
comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls
and compliance with financial covenants.
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIVIAIDS (ZANARA)
Project Schedule,                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             10/02/2000                  10/02/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    04/16/2001                   04/16/2001
Negotiations                                   04/08/2002                   04/12/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  02/28/2003
Prepared by:
Ministry of Finance and National Planning, supported by a Project Preparation Team including the
(Interim) National AIDS Council, Ministry of Health, Central Board of Health, NGOs, private sector.
Preparation assistance:
IDA Project Preparation Facility Q2670-ZA for the sum of US$ 435,300 was provided for various
preparation activities. The preparation activities involved consultancies (PIM, procurement and
financial management), office equipment and furniture, and training workshops.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Albertus Voetberg                 Lead Health Specialist/Team Leader
Andrew Follmer                    Operations Officer
Muhammad Ali Pate                 Young Professional/Public Health Specialist
Helen Mbao                        Social Development Specialist
Trina Haque                       Senior Economist
Bwalya Mumba                      Procurement Specialist
Subhash Dhingra                   Procurement Specialist
Fenwick Chitalu                   Financial Management Specialist
Chris Walker                      Lead Specialist - Quality Assurance/Peer Reviewer
Rollinah Mudenda                  Task Team Assistant
Debrework Zewdie                  Adviser - Peer Reviewer
Susan Stout                       Lead Implementation Specialist - Peer Reviewer
Vanessa Saldanha                  Program Assistant
- 74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft (March, 2001) -- final document is a condition for effectiveness
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Assessment for MAP Projects -- August, 2000
Institutional Assessment -- March, 2001
Social and Gender Assessment - March, 2001
C. Other
HIV/AIDS in Zambia: Background Projections, Impacts and Interventions ---September 1999
Zambia National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS -- 2000
Costing the Zambia National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework 2001-2003, October 2000
Orphans and Vulnerable Children: A Situational Analysis, Zambia 1999
Database of External Contributions to Zambia's HIV/AIDS Response, GRZ/WB/UNAIDS, April 2000
HIV/AIDS Bibliography, an annotated review of research on HIV/AIDS in Zambia, GRZ/UNICEF, 1996
World Bank Identification Mission Aide-Memoire - September, 2000
World Bank Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire, report on the HIV/AIDS Round table -- November,
2000
World Bank Project Concept Document - February, 2001
World Bank Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide-memoire -- February, 2001
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIVIAIDS (ZANARA)
02-Dec-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                    disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                               IBRD       IDA                    Cancel   Undlsb.    Orig  Fnn Rev'd
P070122     2001 RegionalTradeFac Proj -Zambia             000     1500                       000     1139      156      000
P057167     2001 TEVET                                     0 00    25 00                      0 00    24 73    -0 21    0.00
P003227     2001 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT            0 00    2700                       0 00     8.51     4 78     0 00
P050400     2000 PUB SVC CAP (PSCAP)                       0 00    28 00                      0 00    19 83    22 59    0 00
P063584     2000 Sodal InvesbmentFund (ZAMSIF)             000     6470                       000     47 89    1130      000
P064064     2000 MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT            000     3770                       000     28.37    1920      000
P003249     1999 BASICEDSECINVPRG                          000     4000                       000     21.20    2388     401
P003236      1998 NATIONAL ROAD                            0 00    70 00                      0 00    13 93    1418      0 00
P035076     1998 POWERREHAB                               0o00     75.00                      0.00    35.07    3852     2642
P003253     1997 Environmental Support Program             00o0    1280                       000      665      6.87     000
P044324     1997 ENTERPRISE OEVELPMNT                      0 00    45 00                      0 00     0.72     3 74     0 81
P040642     1996 ERIPTA                                    0.00    23 00                      0.00     8 56     231      2 31
Total:     0 00    463 20                      000     226 86   148 72   33 55
ZAMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval           Company                           Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998                  AEF Amaka Cotton                   1.30     0.00     0.00     0.00      1.30     0.00     0.00     0.00
2001                  AEF Chingola Htl                   0.96     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.96     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998                  AEF Drilltech                     0 12      0.00     0.15     0.00      0.12     0.00     0.15      0.00
1999                  AEF Esquire                       0.30      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.30     0.00     0.00      0.00
1997                  AEF JY Estates                    0.89      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.89     0.00     0.00     0.00
2001                  AEF Michelangelo                   0.20     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.20     0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                  AEF Pentire                        0.38     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.38     0.00     0.00      0.00
2000                  APC Ltd.                           2.50     0.00     0.00      0.00     2.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1972/73               Bata Shoe ZA                      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                  Finance Bank                      0.25      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.25     0.00     0.00      0.00
2000                  KCM                                0.00     5.67    26.31      0 00     0.00     5.67     19 69     0.00
2000                  Marasa Holdings                    4.60     0.00     0.00      0.00     4.60     0.00      0 00     0.00
1998                  Nicozam                           0.00      0.30     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.30     0.00      0.00
1999/00               Zamncell                          2.97      0.44     0.00     0.00      2.97     0.44     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:           14.47      6.41    26.46      0.00     14.47     6.41    19.84     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                               Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic
2000                 AEF QNet                              0.34        0.00       0.08       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             0.34       0.00       0.08       0.00
- 76 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIVAIDS (ZANARA)
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Zambia     Africa   Income     Development dlamond'
2001
Populaton, mid-year (mnillIons)                     10.3      674      2,511                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   320      470       430
GNI (Alias method, US$ billions)                     3.3      317      1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                       2.3       2 5       1.9
Laborfrce (b96)                                      2.8       2.6      2.3     GNl                             Gross
per                           prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below natlonal poverty line)  73
Urban population (% of total population)             40        32        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     45        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIve births)             114       91        76
Child malnutritlon (% of children under 5)            24        ..        .          Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  63       55        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulaton age 15+)                   22        37        37
Gross prmary enrollment (% of school-age population)  79       78        96           -Z     mbra
Male                                               81        85       103                  Low-income group
Female                                             76        72        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000     2001
Economic mtlos'
GOP (US$ bUllons)                           4.0      3 4       3 2       3.6
Gross domesUc InvestmentGDP                19.5     11.0      19.2      20.9                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          28.7     34.6      17.3     22.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  7.6      8.4      -3.2       3.5
Gross national savings/GDP                  0 6     4.2       -8.3      -0.8
Current ascount balance/GDP                -19.7   -15.2     -18.8     -20 4    Domestc                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                       2.5      7.1                        savings
Total debVGDP                              91.3    206.3     194.9     161.3
Total debt servicelexports                 36.0     51.1      36.8
Present value of debVGDP                      ..      ..     129.3     114.6
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..     469.0     393.3
Indebtedness
198141   199141     2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                1.0      1.0      3.6       5.2      42                   Zambia
GDP per capIta                     -2.0    -1.5      1.5       3.1       2 1                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services     -3.0      4.1      4.9       2.8       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000     2001      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
ff of GOP)                                                                      lo
Agriculture                                17.0     17.4      22.3      22.0
Industry                                   40.1     51.0      25.3      25.7    so
Manufacturing                             19.3    36.7      11.4      11.2
Services                                   43.0     31.6      52.4      52.3     o
9    97   Be    99   oo   01
Private consumption                        61.8     59.8      91.3      84.6    .so
General govemment consumption              30.6     31.8      12.0      11.8                    GDI    --*-GDP
Imports of goods and servIces              40.6     37.3      39.7      39.5
(average annual growth)                 1981-91  199141      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agricuture                                  3.4      4.3       1.4      -2 4    30
Industry                                    1 2     -3 7       2.9      9.8     i
Manufacturing                             4.5      1.3       3.6       5.7
Services                                   -0.5      3.0       4 4      5.1    [             97   5
Private consumption                         3.3      1.4      -1.3       3.5
General govemment consumption              -1.1     -7.0      -1.6       6 4
Gross domestic Investment                  -5.0      8.9      17.3      18 3            -Exporte       ---mports
Importsofgoodsandservices                  -1.7      3.8       0.9      6.9
Note. 2001 data are prelirrinary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the ountry (in bold) compared with its incom-group average it data are nissing, the diamond will be incornplete
- 77 -



Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001      InflatIon (%)
Domestic prices                                                                   so
(% change)
Consumer prices                              13 0     92.6      26.0     21.7     40
Implicit GDP deflator                         7.8     92 7      30 0     24.3     z
20
Government finance                                                                is
(Y. of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                              23 5     18.7      19 4      19.1            as    97    9s    99    00    01
Current budget balance                       -9 8    -10 6       3 4      -0 5            -    GOP deflator  *   CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                        .     -16 0     -10.7     -12.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          996     1,085      746       871     1
Copper                                               895       430      504
Cobalt                                                94        67       86      oo      i0
Manufactures                                  ..      46       163      190
Total imports (cf)                          1,065     952       978      1,253
Food                                          .        .         9        10      r
Fuel and energy                               ..      83       177      220
Capital goods                                 .      285       284      460        0
05   go   97   a8  9s    00   0
Export pnce index (1995=100)                   .       83        69        65
Import price index (1995=100)                 62       87        92        86                  U Exports    UImp-wrts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .      95         74       75
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991      2000      2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,149    1,169       872     1,041     o
Imports of goods and services               1,650    1,258     1,317     1,625       - 
Resource balance                            -501       -89      -445     -564       s
Net Income                                   -156     4384      -145      -139    -10
Net current transfers                       -123      -40        -18      -20      101111111
Current account balance                      -780     -513      -608      -743
Financing items (net)                        371      544        716      860
Changes in net reserves                      409       -31      -108      -117     2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       142      194        113      186
Conversion rate (DEC, IocallUS$)              0.9     64.6   3,110.8   3,610.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        3,621    6,968     6.311     5,884
IBRD                                       347      373        25        17                     G 111
IDA                                          4      493      1,828     1,869                 F 86   A 25
Total debt service                           421      599        329         .                                 8- 1,828
IBRD                                        43      344         10       10
IDA                                          0       10         17       23        E. 2,151
Composition of net resource flows
OfFicial grants                             26      521        185      211
OffIcial creditors                         183      115
Pfivate creditors                          -20        -7
Foreign direct Investment                   -38       0        122      140               D-912            C 1.198
Portfolio equity
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 26      273                          A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               20      210       210         ..     i-IDA    D -Other rnublateral  F- Pnvate
Principal repayments                        17      168         12       17      C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                     3       41        198
Interest payments                           26      186         14       16
Net transfers                              -23      -145       184
uevelopment tconomics                                                                                              wa.iue-
- 78 -



Additional Annex 11 Supervision Strategy
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
Objectives
The first year of implementation for the ZANARA is expected to be FY03. Although the project
preparation has been extensive, it is still anticipated that there will be considerable need for close
supervision during the initial years of project implementation. The main objectives of the supervision in
the first year are to (a) ensure that there is adequate implementation capacity at the district levels and all
the participating line ministries; (b) ensure that the NAC and Secretariat have adequate capacity and
support to begin carrying out their mandate of coordination and M&E; and (c) ensure adherence to
appropriate safeguards and fiduciary responsibilities.
Strategic focus
The supervision strategy will focus on the following critical areas in the first year. However, as is the
case with the overall project design, flexibility in focus for support supervision will be required in order
to be responsive to evolving priorities or emerging problems.
Institutional arrangements for the implementation.. The supervision will focus on the essential
institutional arrangements in order for the project to carry out the planned project activities. The role of
the DATFs and the District Planning Sub-Committees in the district level coordination of project
activities under the CRAIDS component will be evaluated during the first year of implementation. The
project cycle for the district and sub-district proposals will also be reviewed with regards to efficiency
and timeliness of implementation. At the national level, the evolution of the Joint Project/PAU located
under the MOFNP and the role of the Joint HIV/AIDS Steering Committee with the participation of all
the donors will both be closely monitored. During the initial stages of the project there will be a strategic
focus on the strengthening and creation of partnerships - with civil society organizations, private sector
organizations and within the public sector - for the implementation of the national program. Such
partnerships are seen as the main vehicle to address concems about the absorptive capacity to intensify
the national response to HIV/AIDS as significant as foreseen under the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation. In a multi-sector project with diverse implementing agencies such as this,
it will be important to have a sound M&E system in place early during project implementation. At the
core of the mandate of the NAC is the M&E function for the overall national program. The project will
strengthen the M&E capacity within NAC in collaboration with the ADB and other cooperating partners.
During the first year, the supervision activities will focus on achieving an adequate level of functioning
for the M&E. It is anticipated that participatory stakeholder meetings will form part of the annual project
reviews for the CRAIDS and the Line Ministry components. Joint M&E systems, such as being
developed for the Kenya and the (proposed) Tanzania programs will be used to give the NAC Secretariat
the advantage of sample tools and lessons learned elsewhere.
Coordination. The core function of the NAC is the co-ordination of a large range of activities and
initiatives implemented by a host of agencies from the public sector, the pnvate sector and civil society
organizations, from national level to decentralized level. The supervision strategy will concentrate on
supporting the NAC Secretariat in this formidable task. Key targets in the inital year will be the
development of a Joint M&E Framework for the national program, the development of a model for Joint
HIV/AIDS Program Reviews, the elaboration of a joint financing framework for HIV/AIDS, and the
functioning of the PAU as the institution for joint administrative functions.
Procurement. Supervision will provide problem-solving support on procurement and evaluate whether
capacity and procedures for the centralized procurement are in place.
- 79 -



Financial management. During the first year the project, supervision will focus on the establishment
and management of the two Special Accounts and facilitate timely flow of funds directly to
implementation entities. The argument for the fast tracking of this project hinges on an efficient and
fast-disbursement channel to support the community and multi-sector responses to HIV/AIDS.
Partnerships. Many UN and bilateral agencies such as UNAIDS, WHO, UNICEF, ADB, EU, DFID,
USAID, SIDA and the Dutch have made useful contributions during the ZANARA project preparation.
Such contributions resulted in the proposition for establishing joint coordination mechanisms. The
supervision of the project will continue to build such partnership and collaboration. Three methods are
identified to further develop the partnership and collaboration:
(i)  Joint-missions. The IDA team will participate in the annual joint review of the national
HIV/AIDS program as organized by the NAC Secretariat and supported by the PAU. Whenever
there would be need for additional missions, the IDA team will invite other partners to participate
in these supervision missions and reviews of the project. Donor agencies have experts in the area
that they may have comparative advantages to be part of the IDA supervision mission team.
(ii)  Sharing international experiences and best practices through supervision. Inviting people
with experiences of implementing successful HIV/AIDS related programs outside to join the
mission to share their expertise and experiences. Such support can be provided and financed by the
donor community, and
(iii) Periodic evaluation of the partnerships with a view (i) to strengthen of the relations; (ii) achieve
our common goals in Zambia; and (iii) improving coordination.
During the project launch workshop, the IDA team will discuss the options described above with various
partners to confirm possible arrangements and support.
Supervision
The project will need intensive supervision given the large span of activities, its blend of public and
private sector interventions, and its multi-sectoral as well as its multi-agency nature. In addition,
concems about a limited capacity will require intensive support to develop partnerships for the
implementation of the national program. The project will be implemented by many entities only recently
established and whose capacity will need strengthening. A budget of US$200,000 and a full-time staff
based in the Lusaka Country Office is needed to supervise the project during the first 12 months of
project implementation. The Country Director has already committed to provide a supervision budget of
up to $200,000 during the first twelve months of implementation. The project task team would consult
with the Bank's Global HIV-AIDS Office early on during implementation to explore additional financial
contributions for M&E.
Some of the skills required for the supervision of the ZANARA project will be needed on a regular basis
while others will be required on an ad hoc basis. It is therefore proposed to establish a project team,
which will emphasize financial, procurement and operational basic needs, complemented by technical
specialists, in particular those covering M&E, community participation, maternal and child needs,
sectoral concems and sub-regional matters.
A much more intensive than normal supervision program should be carried out during the first year of the
project to put in place a sound institutional base and properly begin interventions to be undertaken by this
complex operation. Clearly there will be an incubation period for the main new institution, the NAC,
whose staff will have just come on board, developing a management culture, preparing terms of
reference, and with limited World Bank procurement/financial management experience. The project
team will need to assess-on the ground-whether the indicators levels chosen are realistic, given the
- 80 -



Zambia situation and do conform to those in the Joint M&E framework that will be developed, or need
adjustments. The staff in the Lusaka Country Office will provide support on a continuous basis and will
sollicit support in specialized areas as required.
Project supervision will also benefit from the Bank's: (i) Senior Health Specialist with extensive
experience in operations and MAP projects elsewhere; (ii) education team involved in the Bank's new
education sector program; and (iii) the Bank's team in the Country Office working on the ZAMSIF. In
addition there will be an (i) M&E specialist consultant; (ii) implementation specialist to provide longer
term support and to troubleshoot implementation issues at an early stage, (iii) maternal and child needs
specialist, and (iv) NGO/CBO/community participation specialist.
The project team therefore includes the following members: (i) Task Team Leader with experience in
HIV/AlDS operations; (ii) health/nutrition/population specialist, (iii) senior implementation specialist,
to help in the critical first half year of project's implementation; (iv) financial management specialist
who will review adherence to Bank procedures with regard to fiduciary responsibilities; and (v)
procurement and implementation specialists, responsible for the procurement, implementation, and
institutional issues and (vi) sectoral specialists in the areas of education, gender, maternal and child
needs, and community participation.
The ZANARA project team will be complemented by representatives of Zambia's development partners
who are active in the fight against HIV/AIDS. The wide variety of stakeholders, both in terms of
technical focus as well as geographic coverage, poses an enormous challenge to the forging of a
framework for coherent programme implementation. While the various stakeholders work well
together under the umbrella of NAC it was felt that the consideration of more formal working
arrangements including the development of joint planning and monitoring processes would be
helpful. This could start with a joint review of progress towards the delivery of the strategic
plan. The ZANARA project team will provide support to the process as well as the content of the joint
program reviews as required. The establishment of a specific Joint HIV/AIDS Steering Committee with
the participation of all the donors will further facilitate and enhance their role and technical input to the
broader project implementation issues.
Staff Allocations [Bank Budget (BB)]
Staff                   # of staff weeks
Task Team Leader (Lusaka) or designee          14
Lead Health Specialist                          8
Education Specialist                            4
Social Sector / Community Participation Spec.   8
Procurement Specialist                          4
Financial Management Specialist                 6
Other                                           3
Total                                          47
- 81 -



Consultants (BB, Trust Funds, or Partner support)
# of staff weeks  # of missions
Monitoring and Evaluation      10              4
Community Participation        4               2
Nutrition                      10              3
Procurement/Financial          12              4
Other                           8              2
Total                          44             15
-82 -



Additional Annex 12 Supervision Strategy
ZAMBIA: Zambia National Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
CRAIDS
COMMUNITY RESPONSE TO HIV/AIDS COMPONENT
Of the
National Response to HIV/AIDS
ZANARA
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Lusaka
Zambia
18/06/01
- 83 -



Section 1         Introduction and Situation Analysis
1.1      The HIVIAIDS Epidemic In Zambia
HIV/AIDS is Zambia's most challenging development problem today. The 1998 antenatal survey
found HIV prevalence rates of 27 percent in Zambia's major cities. Rates are very high along
major highways and in trading centres and border, farming and mining towns. The 1998 survey
reported rates of 31 percent in the border town of Livingstone and 27 percent in Chipata. A
Ministry of Health expert group estimated that provincial adult HIV prevalence was 26 percent in
Lusaka, 23 percent in the Copperbelt and 19 percent in the Northern Province. National adult
HIV prevalence is estimated to be 20 percent, which means that more than 1 million Zambians
have HIV.
The context of the current HIV/AIDS epidemic is alarming. More than 50 percent of the
country's population are less than 20 years of age and they constitute the most vulnerable group
to HIV/AIDS. As one of the most urban countries in Africa, urban migration characterised as
movement from smaller towns to larger cities is still in occurrence. The mobility of Zambians is
directly relevant to the epidemic. A recent survey indicates that less than ten percent of Zambians
had lived in their present location for less than five years. This type of movement increases the
likelihood that sexual activity with non-regular partners occurs. It also reinforces the need for
dissemination constant and consistent prevention messages to the population as new people
move in and out of communities.
While recent sentinel surveillance data and population surveys indicate encouraging signs of a
decreasing prevalence among the younger, urban and more educated, overall infection rates are
not expected to decrease significantly for many years. Furthermore, the death rate will not
decrease for some time even if infection rates are stablised. In general, it is estimated, even with a
levelling of infection rates, rates will remain high through 2010. Furthermore, the death rate will
not decrease until 2030 and an impact on the orphan rate will not be felt until nearly 2050.
People living with AIDS in Zambia are stigmatised and they experience some form of
discrimination. This in part is due to beliefs that AIDS is associated with illicit sex and the result
of sin. Some of the stigma is associated with misconceptions of how HIV is acquired. Some of
the adverse consequences of such stigma include but are not limited to an increased burden and
suffering among those living with AIDS, a reluctance of individuals to know their HIV status,
delay in seeking health care, and delays by communities to respond to HIV prevention in their
communities. This stigma is even extended to the family members, friends, caretakers and
contacts of people living with AIDS.
The overall burden of HIV on the Zambian economy is tremendous. Frequently the primary bread
winner of the family falls ill first placing the family in economic jeopardy. The burden of caring
for the ill comes at opportunity costs for earning family income, attending school and caring for
small children. The increased health care costs are too much for most families to absorb and the
chronically ill patient does without. Given the slow progression of AIDS, many families exhaust
- 84 -



their entire savings long before the transition of the person with AIDS. The illness and and death
of these economically active prime-age adults result not only in higher medical expenses and
lower incomes for family members, but also in worsened health and little or no investment in the
future of the survivors. Survivors, especially women and children, may also lose access to land,
housing, livestock and other assets because they have no protected rights to inherit property from
their husbands or fathers. Neither children nor women have any legal recourse to recovering their
husbands' or fathers' property removed from them.
The impact on the work force has been felt at all levels including private sector and government.
No government ministry is immunised against losing trained and skilled members. The costs to
the private sector of losing trained labour are forcing many private sector companies to develop
HIV/AIDS work place policies directed at both prevention, but also protection policies for
chronically ill members of staff.
It is perhaps on the children that the AIDS epidemic is most acutely felt. Fifteen percent of
Zambian children are orphans. An estimated 23% of those orphans result from AIDS. Projections
for 2010 indicate that AIDS may likely account for two-thirds of orphan children. The children
witness the slow deterioration of their parents' health and the subsequent shunning from the
extended family and community, where AIDS remains a highly stigmatised disease. Children
frequently drop out of school as the family income decreases and/or to care for an ill parent. The
extended family system has absorbed orphans into their families, but give the magnitude of the
epidemic, the question becomes for how much longer before it buckles.
The National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS places people at the centre of the solution. Experience
has shown that communities in Zambia have proved to be the driving force behind HIV/AIDS
prevention and care. The young too have shown that behavioural change is possible. The
community has had to bear the major impact in terms of caring for the sick and orphans, widows
and widowers. Communities have also been able to some extent to take ownership of the
problem - this is evidenced by the emergence of prevention, care and mitigation activities that
have been successfully initiated and implemented by community members. This response
however needs support, co-ordination and facilitation in order to effectively scale up.
1.2      Background Information on ZAMSIF
The Government of the Republic of Zambia has already committed itself to a programme of
poverty reduction, which emphasises empowerment, and subsequent involvement of the people
not only as beneficiaries but also as providers of their own services. GRZ has recently launched
ZAMSIF, which supports community based development for poverty reduction. The ZAMSIF
goal is to contribute to the improved, expanded and sustainable use of services provided in a
governance system where local governments and communities are mutually accountable.
ZAMSIF has three development objectives, which are to:
* Achieve sustainable improved availability and use of quality basic social services by
beneficiary communities and specific vulnerable groups;
* Contribute to the building of capacity for improved local governance; and
- 85 -



*   Strengthen the capacity to provide timely information on poverty and social conditions and
facilitate its use in policy making.
In order to achieve these objectives, ZAMSIF has three components:
*   The Community Investment Fund (CIF) which aims to empower local communities
through the financing of sub projects identified, implemented, managed and maintained
by communities;
*   The District Investment Fund (DIF) which addresses the second objective and aims to
strengthen the capacity of local government to respond to community needs and
initiatives;
*   The Poverty Monitoring and Analysis (PMA) component which addresses the third
objective and which supports policy related research.
The Government has agreed that ZAMSIF will be the most appropriate implementing agency for
the Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS) component of the National Response to
HIV/AIDS for the following reasons:
*   ZAMSIF is based on 10 years of successful experience of community based development
and has established administrative procedures, monitoring and information systems for
funding communities;
*   ZAMSIF DIF component has an existing emphasis and focus on capacity building at the
district level which will also address the needs of the District AIDS Task Forces.
*   ZAMSIF is a multi-sector agency, HIV/AIDS cuts across all sectors;
*   ZAMSIF has been found to be efficient and effective. This component will use existing
management systems and support which obviates the need to set up parallel structures in
order to achieve a quick response;
*   ZAMSIF is able to respond to the management needs of different donors and
programmes.
Section 2         Project Summary - Community Response to HIV /AIDS
Component
2.1     CRAIDS Component Objectives
The Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS) component of the Zambia National
Response to HIV/AIDS (ZANARA) will be based on the National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS
and the experience of community based development gained by ZAMSIF and its the predecessors
Social Recovery Projects I and II.
Objective
The objective of Community Response to HIV/AIDS CRAIDS component is:
To improve the response of communities to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, which
contributes to the prevention of HIV/AIDS, mitigates the impact of HIV/AIDS on
households and improves the quality and access to care of those affected by
HIV/AIDS.
- 86 -



In order to achieve these objectives the component will have the following activities:
*   Support to Community aased Initiatives - financing community based projects
which are identified, planned, managed and operated by communities themselves.
*   Support to the District Response to HIV/ AIDS - supporting capacity building
activities to enable a district response to HIV/AIDS which effectively supports and
facilitates the community response;
*   Support to Non Governmental Organisations - supporting NGOs with programmes
which address the expressed needs of communities and which meet the agreed
criteria;
*   Information Dissemination - establishing mechanisms for the dissemination of
relevant information to communities, districts and other relevant bodies in close
collaboration with NAC.
These activities are described in this Project Implementation Manual for CRAIDS.
2.2     Institutional Support
The Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS) component of the National Response to
HIV/AIDS (ZANARA) will use the existing administrative capacity and management expertise
within the ZAMSIF Management Unit (MU). The MU, however, will be augmented with
qualified personnel, according to agreed terms of reference'.
The ZAMSIF MU is a semi-autonomous unit within the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MOFED) and is headed by a Programme Director supported by the necessary
departments and staff. The existing ZAMSIF departments, including Field Operations and its
Regional Network, Finance, Technical Departments, Capacity Building, Information and
Communications and Monitoring and Evaluation departments, will support CRAIDS component.
The Programme Director will report to the NAC , Project Administration Unit in MOFED and to
the ZANARA Technical Steering Committee.
2.3      Guiding Principles and Strategic Approach of the Community Response
to HIV/AIDS
2.3.1      CRAIDS Approach to Community Based Development
CRAIDS will support community-based projects where communities manage, plan, implement
and sustain their own development. Communities own their own projects and participate in all
stages of the project cycle.
CRAIDS will support activities which address HIV/AIDS and that enhance this approach.
2.3.2           Consistency with National Strategic Plan
CRAIDS is designed to support the National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS. The guiding
- 87 -



principles of the national response to HIV/AIDS are:
*   People are in the centre of the solution;
*   Respect for the basic human rights of all persons;
* Cultural norms, values and practices should be an integral part of the response;
*   Prioritisation by vulnerable groups and respective geographical areas;
*   Go to scale from the on-going projects in order to cover priority vulnerable groups;
*   Develop an integrated strategic management approach, which develops and monitors best
practice as well as the progress in going to scale for priority areas.
It is expected that, at the national level, the National HIV/AIDS, STD, and TB Council (NAC)
will provide the co-ordination required as well as policy direction, co-ordination with other
donor, sector, private sector programmes and identification of potential partners. Several working
groups will assist and advise the NAC. At the district level, the co-ordination, policy direction,
identification of local partners will be provided by the appropriate district level co-ordination
mechanisms, the District Development Co-ordinating Committees (DDCC) and possibly the
District AIDS Task Forces (DATF).
Priority Interventions identified by the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan are:
*   Mobilisation of a multi sector response, especially at district level;
*   Promotion of behaviour change and reduction of high risk behaviours;
*   Increased and improved STD prevention and control;
*   De-stigmatisation of HIV/AIDS;
*   Increased voluntary counselling and testing;
*   Reduced mother to child transmission;
*   Improved home based care and support for people living with AIDS;
*   Community based support for orphans and vulnerable children;
*   Improved drug supply for the treatment of STD, TB and HIV positive clients;
*   Improved hospital level care.
2.3.3      Consistency with Specific Sector Standards, Guidelines and Policy.
CRAIDS will use national technical standards and support community based projects which use
recognised best practice, where these exist. Where the standards are not available, CRAIDS will
assist in the development of these in co-operation with the relevant stakeholders and NAC
Technical Working Groups. Particular attention will be paid to sustainability issues of
self-reliance, community management and maintenance and sector social service delivery
obligations. NAC will provide and maintain networking links with relevant stakeholders and
sector ministries so as to keep informed of sector policy change that might impact on
interventions. NAC will also provide the link between the CRAIDS programme and the NAC
Technical Working Groups, which provide technical advice to the NAC and its secretariat.
2.3.4     Targeting
The targeting mechanism will be demand-led self targeting. The component will respond to
community demand but appraisal and approval procedures will favour the identified priority
- 88 -



areas and groups. The demand for community projects, which address the needs of those already
affected, is likely to be highest from those geographical areas with show very high prevalence
rates. These have been identified in the National Strategic Framework and are:
* Lusaka and Copperbelt Provinces;
*   Districts along the main trucking routes, well defined fishing areas, refugee populations
and tourism;
*   Towns with frequent cross border traders.
These areas show the highest prevalence rates mostly due to high mobility of populations.
CRAIDS will also support programmes that aim to prevent HIV in those areas with low
prevalence rates.
The priority target groups for the CRAIDS component are:
*   Women;
* People Living with HIV/AIDS;
*   Orphans and vulnerable children;
*   Youth in and out-of-school, especially girls;
*   Commercial sex workers;
*   Truck drivers.
Special attention will be given to the gender factors of HIV/AIDS in the context of the imbalance
of power between men and women. Women face a greater risk of infection than men. Women are
also the main caregivers.
2.3.5     Elements of Community Based Interventions
CRAIDS will actively seek partnerships at all levels and will support community-based
interventions which include the following elements:
*   Decentralisation of decision-making and devolution of responsibilities to local
levels, community and district levels, through a co-ordinating mechanism at
district level, possibly District AIDS Task Forces;
*   Interventions are based on needs and priorities identified by the community;
* Local and traditional leadership structures are respected and used;
* Communities take an active role to identify and manage interventions. CRAIDS
support will supplement community initiatives and not displace them;
* Information is disseminated to community members, through a vigorous
information dissemination;
* Community projects supported by CRAIDS are linked with a more permanent
institution such as a hospital, clinic, church or school, wherever possible, to
provide continuity and sustainability.
2.3.6     Expected Benefits.
The project is expected to generate the following benefits:
- 89 -



*   improving access and availability to measures which prevent HIV/AIDS;
*   improving care to persons affected by HIV/AIDS;
*   strengthening the capacity of communities to design, plan and manage commurity
based interventions which aim to prevent HIV/AIDS and care for those affected
by HIV/AIDS;
*   strengthening the capacity of district authorities' to respond to community
initiatives which aim to address HIV/AIDS;
*   improved response and co-ordination of community based initiatives related to
HIV/AIDS at the district and community level.
- 90 -



CD






|  /  Z  A  M  B  I A                                           >                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T A N Z A N I A
-TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS   RIVERS /:eng 
\             ~~~~~RAILROADS       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                     
-,^ \ o~~~~ SELECTED CITIES             INTERNA:llONALEBOUNDARIES k  ^
3 @ ~~PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                    KAS ORTj 
F~~~~~~~~~DM RE. FCOG
/              Lukulu  }(_ 2- v /> ) } ( / ~~~~~~T L.bt. gZMIU
l   I                                                                  g    n    S   C   e          >  1      C  A  * - % 1 | M.mb.  |
X                                                &  tt  E  S  T  E  t N \ >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M,om '"\ 
- \ iy ) Katbo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLt oWto Mgy HffE Z*--*J:N;_  , 
A  N            Li  A OUTHEtChsks ' " -'eOt
<> $=t Kdyt                                                             w E | \\ 2 xw9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
z MIBIA Aent,.d mlt0sand 0 r~~~~~~~~~~~oid 0,-Fi ll6. 
m~~~~~~.6.                      SWNB E                                                                                  M,oALAW-nIoenwtt _









-  Type:     PA   --      -   -
IMAGING
Report No.:         25034  ZA



