                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR0000922




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IDA-H0170)




                                         ON A


                                        GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.7 MILLION
                           (US$ 42 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                       TO THE


                                REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA


                                       FOR THE


 ZAMBIA NATIONAL RESPONSE TO HIV/AIDS (ZANARA) PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF
    THE SECOND PHASE OF THE MULTI-COUNTRY AIDS PROGRAM FOR AFRICA




                                    February 27,2009




Human Development 1
Southern Africa Country Department 2
Africa Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective February 2, 2009)

             Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZK)

                        1.00 = US$ 1.4909

                      US$ 1.00 = ZK 5,150

                          FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1- December 31




            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAP        Africa Action Plan
AMICAALL   Alliance of Mayors and Municipal Leaders on HIV/AIDS in Africa
ART        Antiretroviral treatment
BESSIP     Basic Education Subsector Investment Program
CBO        Community Based Organization
CCM        Country Coordinating Mechanism
CHAZ       Churches Health Association
CRAIDS     Community Response to HIV and AIDS
CSO        Civil Society Organization
CSW        Commercial Sex Worker
DACA       District AIDS Coordinating Advisor
DATF       District AIDS Task Force
DFID       Department for International Development
DGA        Development Grant Agreement
DHMT       District Health Management Team
DHS        Demographic and Health Survey
FINPRO     Financial Processing System
FMPC       Financial Management and Procurement Committee
FMR        Financial Monitoring Report
FPP        Focal Point Person
GAMET      Global HIV and AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Team
GFATM      Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GRZ        Government of the Republic of Zambia
HAART      Highly Active Antiretroviral Treatment
HBC        Home Based Care
HCWMP      Health Care Waste Management Plan
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report



                               i

IEC       Information Education Communication
IGA       Income Generating Activity
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
JAPR      Joint Annual Program Review
JFA       Joint Financing Agreement
JFC       Joint Financing Committee
LEA       Learning Exchange Activity
MAP       Multi-Country AIDS Program
MDG       Millennium Development Goal
MOFNP     Ministry of Finance and National Planning
MOH       Ministry of Health
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NAC       National HIV/AIDS/STI/TB Council
NACMIS    National AIDS Council Management Information System
NASA      National AIDS Spending Assessment
NASF      National Strategic Framework
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NZP+      Network for people living with HIV and AIDS
OI        Opportunistic Infection
OVC       Orphans and Vulnerable Children
PACA      Provincial AIDS Coordinating Advisor
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PATF      Provincial AIDS Task Force
PDO       Project Development Objective
PEPFAR    President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
PLWHA     People Living with HIV and AIDS
PMTCT     Prevention of the Mother to Child Transmission
PAU       Project Administration Unit
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
STARZ            Strengthening the AIDS Response in Zambia
UNAIDS    United Nations Joint Program on HIV/AIDS
UNGASS    United Nations General Assembly Special Session
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNV       United Nations Volunteer
VCT       Voluntary Counseling and Testing
YFHC      Youth Friendly Health Centre
YFHS      Youth Friendly Health Services
ZAMSIF    Zambia Social Investment Fund
ZANARA    Zambia National Response to HIV and AIDS
ZANIS     Zambia National Information Service
ZBCA      Zambia Business Coalition on HIV and AIDS
ZNAN      Zambia National AIDS Network
ZNBTS             Zambia National Blood Transfusion Service




                             ii

Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili

Country Director:          Michael Baxter

Sector Manager:            Christopher J. Thomas

Project Team Leader:       Musonda Rosemary Sunkutu

ICR Team Leader:           Musonda Rosemary Sunkutu




                        iii

                                                    ZAMBIA
                Zambia National Response to HIV and AIDS Project




                                                 CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...........................................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...........................................................8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................................19
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .....................................................................37
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................................38
 6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................................41
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......................44
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................................45
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..............................................................................................47
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................................70
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .........................71
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................73
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...............................................................74
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................................75
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................................93
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................................98
 MAP




                                                        iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Zambia National
Country:                Zambia                Project Name:         Response to HIV/AIDS
                                                                    (ZANARA)
Project ID:             P003248               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H0170
ICR Date:               02/26/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:             THE REPUBLIC OF
                                                                    ZAMBIA
Original Total
                        XDR 33.7M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 33.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance and National Planning
Zambia Social Investment fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
UK-funded DFID


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/22/2001    Effectiveness:                          07/08/2003
Appraisal:             04/16/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/30/2002    Mid-term Review:     08/15/2005         08/23/2005
                                     Closing:             02/28/2008         08/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              40                 20
Health                                                         40                 70
Other social services                                          15                  7
Sub-national government administration                          5                  3


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                            Secondary         Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                      Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary         Secondary
Population and reproductive health                            Primary          Primary
Social risk mitigation                                        Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Kapil Kapoor                     Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas            Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Musonda Rosemary Sunkutu         Albertus Voetberg
ICR Team Leader:          Musonda Rosemary Sunkutu
ICR Primary Author:       Humberto Albino Cossa



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective is to significantly increase access to, and use of,
HIV/AIDS prevention, care & impact mitigation programs with particular emphasis on



                                             ii

vulnerable populations (e.g. youth, women of childbearing age, widows, child or women
headed households, people living with HIV and AIDS & other groups at increased risk of
being infected or affected).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who are mothers or pregnant with their
                first child reduced from 59.4 percent to 45 percent by 2008.
Value           59.40 percent teenage
quantitative or mothers and pregnant        45percent                        20.9 percent
Qualitative)    with first child.
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    02/28/2008                       12/31/2006
Comments        The percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who are mothers or pregnant with
(incl. %        their first child decreased by 64.8 percent between 1998 and 2007. Source -
achievement)    Antenatal sentinel surveillance studies 1998/2006.

Indicator 2 :   Reported condom use at last sex with non-regular sexual partner in 15-49 year
                old increased from 30 percent for males to 45 percent by 2008.
Value
quantitative or 30 percent                  45 percent                       50 percent for

Qualitative)                                                                 males

Date achieved 12/31/2002                    02/28/2008                       08/31/2007

Comments        Reported condom use increased by 40 percent in males between 2002 and 2007.

(incl. %        Source DHS 2002/2007

achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Percentage of pregnant women aged 15-19 years who are HIV infected reduced
                from 17 percent to 15 percent.
Value
quantitative or 17 percent                  15 percent                       8.7 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    02/28/2008                       08/31/2006
                The percentage of pregnant women aged 15-19 years who are HIV infected
Comments        decreased by 48.8 percent between 1998 and 2006 and by 31 percent between
(incl. %        2002 to 2006. Source - Antenatal sentinel surveillance studies 1998/2002/2006.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Median age at first sex increased by one year for both male and female by 2008.
Value
quantitative or 16.5                        17.5                             18.5
Qualitative)



                                                iii

Date achieved 12/31/2003                   02/28/2008                        08/31/2005
Comments        The median age at first sex for both males and females increased by 12.1 percent
(incl. %        between 2003 and 2005. This indicator was tracked in the age group 15-24 years
achievement)    in both males and females from sexual behavior surveys (SBS) 2003/2005.
Indicator 5 :   Primary school enrollment rate among Orphans and vulnerable children.
Value
quantitative or 23 percent                 na                                102.4 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   02/28/2008                        12/31/2007
Comments        Increase in the primary school enrollment rate among orphans and vulnerable
(incl. %        children increased by more than 300 percent between 2002 to 2007. Source
achievement)    Annual Education Statistical Bulletin.

Indicator 6 :   Reported condom use at last sex with non-regular sexual partner in 15-49 year
                old increased from 17 percent for females to 30 percent by 2008.
Value
quantitative or 17 percent                 30 percent                        37.4 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   02/28/2008                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Reported condom use increased by 54.5 percent in females between 2002 and

achievement)    2007. Source DHS 2002/2007.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   350 community based initiatives funded by 2008.
Value
(quantitative   0                          350                               1263 (1080- IDA,

or Qualitative)                                                              183-DFID)

Date achieved 12/31/2003                   02/28/2008                        08/31/2008

Comments        The component achieved more than 300 percent above the set target. Source:

(incl. %        ZANARA reports. This was achieved through reallocation and foreign exchange

achievement)    gains increasing grant allocation to US$ 13.5 million including support from
                DFID of US$ 2.49 million.

Indicator 2 :   30 functioning district HIV and AIDS task forces established for sensitizing,
                appraising and coordinating activities by 2008.
                                                                             72 functioning

Value                                      30 functioning                    district HIV and

(quantitative   0                          district HIV and                  AIDS task forces

or Qualitative)                            AIDS task forces                  successfully
                                           established                       executing their
                                                                             functions
Date achieved 07/31/2003                   02/28/2008                        08/31/2007
Comments        The indicator was achieved by 240 percent above the set target. Source NAC
(incl. %        reports. Significant support from the project and UNDP, helped to capacitate



                                                iv

achievement)   the DATFs in proposal development, M&E including fiduciary management to
               support subprojects.
Indicator 3 :  Increase number of districts with functioning HIV support groups to 25 by 2008.

                                           HIV and AIDS                      HIV and AIDS
Value                                                                        support groups
(quantitative  0                           support groups in                 established and
or Qualitative)                            25 districts
                                           established                       functioning in all
                                                                             72 districts
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   02/28/2008                        08/31/2007

Comments       The indicator was achieved by 288percent above the set target. Source NAC and

(incl. %       ZANARA Reports. Supported by the project and other donors. Knowledge

achievement)   sharing and counseling within support group helped to reduce stigma and
               increased utilization of services.

Indicator 4 :  All public sector line ministries have systemmatically sensitized their staff about
               HIV and AIDS through planned workshops and seminars by 2008
                                                                             Staff from 23 Line
                                                                             ministries and 18
Value                                      Staff from 15 Line                public sector
(quantitative  0                                                             departments
or Qualitative)                            ministries.                       including the
                                                                             provinces and
                                                                             districts sensitized
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   02/28/2008                        08/31/2008

Comments       The indicator was achieved by 270 percent above the set target. Source

(incl. %       ZANARA reports. With support the project, GFATM and PEPFAR there now

achievement)   have a system in place in the public sector that responds to HIV and AIDS and
               Gender mainstreaming.

Indicator 5 :  Proportion of pregnant women aged 15-24 years attending antenatal clinics who
               test positive for syphilis.
Value
(quantitative  7.5 percent                 na                                2.7 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   02/28/2008                        12/31/2006

Comments       The prevalence of syphilis declined by 64 percent between 2002 and 2006.

(incl. %       Source - Antenatal sentinel surveillance studies 2002/2006. Pregnant women

achievement)   are now routinely being offered HIV test and being tested and treated for
               syphilis.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     05/28/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     07/31/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.50
  3     10/16/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.06
  4     03/12/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       2.30
  5     06/29/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       4.34



                                                v

  6   11/19/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory     7.18
  7   03/29/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    10.86
  8   10/06/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    19.80
  9   02/28/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    23.87
  10  09/01/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    27.98
  11  03/02/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    35.97
  12  08/15/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    43.27
  13  01/17/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    46.89
  14  08/01/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    50.46
  15  08/28/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    50.46



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

                          1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       In 1999, prior to the design of the Zambia National Response to HIV and AIDS
(ZANARA) project, 870,000 Zambians were estimated to be living with HIV, with
cumulative deaths of 650,000 from AIDS. The adult mortality in Zambia increased from
12.2 to 14.3 deaths per 1,000 people from 1996-2002 [1]. Life expectancy at birth had
fallen from 60 years in 1990 to 37 years in 2006, largely due to the HIV and AIDS crisis.
In 2002, when the ZANARA project was designed, the prevalence of HIV infection
among the adult population aged 15-49 years ranged from 11.5 percent in rural areas to
25.4 percent in urban areas with an adjusted national HIV prevalence of 16.9 percent1.
HIV infection rates among women (18 percent) were higher than those for men (13
percent) and young women aged 15-24 were 4-5 times more likely to have been infected
than their male counterparts [1].

2.       The HIV prevalence urban to rural ratio was 2.2 in antenatal surveillance and 2.1
in population survey estimates. These figures indicated that Zambia was (and still is) a
hyper epidemic country, with a matured and generalized HIV epidemic. The socio-
economic consequences of HIV and AIDS in Zambia were already severe. First, the
excessive death toll due to the epidemic reduced the labor supply and jeopardized
programs to reduce poverty in the short term, while development prospects deteriorated
in the medium term. Second, dependency ratios increased as the number of orphans and
vulnerable children (OVC) increased as the epidemic hit people at their most productive
ages.

3.       By 1999, there were about half a million orphans with that number expected to
rise to almost a million by 2014. This put further strain on the extended family structure
of communities and on scarce investment resources. Third, despite sustained growth in
gross domestic product (GDP) of 4.6 percent per year, poverty remained around 56
percent. The fall in productivity due to AIDS and economic costs associated with loss of
labor as a result of deaths accounts for 3 percent of GDP in Zambia. Despite the alarming
proportions of the HIV and AIDS epidemic in Zambia, the availability of external
assistance for HIV and AIDS programs was limited at the time of the design of
ZANARA project and did not commensurate with the severity of the epidemic.

4.       Due to HIV and AIDS becoming a major threat to the country's long-term
development, Zambia's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, approved in 2002, and the
Joint IMF/IDA Staff Assessment, included HIV and AIDS as a crosscutting issue. In
addition, Government's 2000-2003 National Strategic Framework on HIV and AIDS
(NASF) and subsequently, the 2002-2005 National Intervention Plan called for a multi-
sectoral approach to fight and control the epidemic guided by development and socio-
cultural principles. NASF's main objectives were to:
    a) Reduce HIV transmission mainly focusing on children, youth, women, and
         situations that were at high risk for HIV transmission and increased vulnerability.


1Data from ante-natal clinic survey, 2002



                                                   1

    b) Reduce the socio-economic impact of HIV and AIDS on individuals and families
        at the workplace, in the home, and in Zambian society as a whole.
    c) Mobilize local and external resources to fight the epidemic through a concerted
        effort at all levels including the highest level of Government.

5.      In 2002 the Government of Zambia established the National HIV/AIDS/STI/TB
Council (NAC) by an Act of Parliament with a mandate to coordinate and monitor the
national multi-sectoral response. In addition, a Cabinet Committee of Ministers on HIV
and AIDS chaired by the Minister of Health was established to provide oversight to the
national response. The Committee of Ministers reports directly to the President of the
Republic of Zambia. At provincial and district levels local representations of the NAC
were created; the Provincial AIDS Task Forces (PATFs) and District AIDS Tasks Forces
(DATFs) respectively. These bodies aimed to promote, support, and strengthen the
decentralized HIV and AIDS response including the community­based responses.

Rationale for Bank assistance:
6.      The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2004-2007 recognized that attainment
of the goal of increasing incomes and living standards of the vast majority of Zambians,
and of sustained economic growth, could be seriously compromised in the absence of
effective control of the HIV and AIDS epidemic. Thus, the focus and objectives of the
ZANARA project, to reduce the spread of HIV and AIDS, mitigate the socio-economic
impact of the disease, and increase access to care and support for people infected or
affected by HIV and AIDS in Zambia, was consistent with the CAS. The project design
was selective in its support and focused on financing high priority interventions for which
significant funding gaps exist, including a new approach for addressing HIV and AIDS
by supporting and strengthening community-based responses to the epidemic.

7.      The main strategy of the CAS for 2004-2007 was to work in tandem with the
Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) and its partners to support a multi-
sectoral, multi-donor HIV and AIDS prevention and treatment program, and to strengthen
related activities within the ongoing country portfolio. Moreover, the value added of the
Bank support through ZANARA was its focus on the multi-sectorality and development-
oriented approach to the epidemic, as well as the Bank's ability to fill the existing
financing gap (estimated at US$ 300 million in 2000) to allow for a rapid scale-up of the
HIV and AIDS response in all sectors. IDA's resources, together with technical
assistance, were to be applied flexibly to respond to evolving needs, and build capacity in
Government institutions and communities to help reduce the spread of the epidemic.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.      The project's development objective (PDO) was to significantly increase access to
and use of HIV and AIDS prevention, care, and impact mitigation programs with
particular emphasis on vulnerable populations (e.g. youth, women of childbearing age,
widows, child or women-headed households, people living with HIV and AIDS, and
other groups at increased risk of being infected or affected).




                                             2

9.        Based on the project's logical framework analysis, the PDO indicators included;
(i) Median age at first sexual encounter increased by one year for both males and females
by 2008, (ii) Percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who were mothers or pregnant
with their first child was reduced from 59.4 percent to 45 percent by 2008, (iii) Reported
condom use during most recent sex with non-regular partner increased from 30 percent to
45 percent for males, and from 17 percent to 30 percent for females by 2008, (iv) Primary
school non-enrollment rate among OVC was reduced from x% to x% by 20082 (The
indicator has been tracked as increase in the primary school enrollment rate among OVC
through the annual Educational Statistical Bulletin by the Ministry of Education)
including a number of other outcome output and input indicators3.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10.       There was no revision of the PDO but continuity with the original PDO and key
indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.       The project was designed to (i) target specific groups that are particularly
vulnerable to HIV infection i.e., (a) groups known to be particularly vulnerable to HIV
infection such as young people (in particular young girls), pregnant women, long distance
truck drivers, road and power construction workers, traders, fishermen, the military and
the prison population; (b) groups engaging in high risk HIV-related behaviors such as
commercial sex workers and intravenous; (ii) address specific needs of key sectors such
as education, gender, labor, social development, transport, agriculture, mines and other
industries, road construction, power and energy, and others with a significant mobile or
active work force; and (iii) improve the country's overall capacity to cope with the
epidemic, within Government, at the central and district levels, and outside Government.

12.       The expected benefits included: (i) Reducing the number of new HIV and AIDS
cases by reducing the rate of transmission of HIV through: (a) changing HIV-related
behaviors, (b) improving the accessibility to condoms, (c) reducing the rate of sexually
transmitted diseases, and (d) reducing the number of infections transmitted from parent to
child; (ii) Extending the productive life of people living with HIV by: (a) improving the
prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections (OIs), and (b) providing support for
nutritional programs for people living with HIV; (iii) Improving diagnosis, treatment and
care for people living with HIV and AIDS by: (a) expanding access to voluntary
counseling and testing, (b) diffusing standard protocols, and training both professional
and traditional health care providers on the clinical management of STI and OI, and of
HIV; and (c) improving the planning, procurement and distribution of essential diagnostic
kits and pharmaceuticals; (iv) Improving the ability of communities, households and
individuals to prevent or cope with the impact of HIV and AIDS, through support for


2
 The targets were not set since these were moving target since the number of OVC was expected to increase. Thus, it was not clear
how many would be reached. The task team relied on targets to be set by the government through Ministry of Education...
3See key performance indicators in Annex 2.




                                                              3

community-led HIV and AIDS initiatives; and (v) Improving economic prospects of
orphans and poor HIV stricken families with school-aged children by providing support
for initiatives targeting the respective households and increasing the enrollment of OVC
in schools.




1.5 Original Components



Component 1 - Part (a) Support for Community Response to HIV and AIDS (CRAIDS) (US$
14.7 million)

13.     The component supported a new and innovative approach to respond to the
challenges posed by the HIV and AIDS epidemic through direct funding of community-
based initiatives and interventions facilitated by community-based organizations,
including non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Specifically, the component provided
support for: (i) Community-based sub-projects which were prepared and submitted
through agreed institutional mechanisms; (ii) Capacity building and training of
community volunteers, peer educators and master trainers in HIV prevention strategies;
(iii) Establishment of support groups for people living with HIV; (iv) OVC; and (v)
Capacity building for the District Response to HIV and AIDS.

Component 2 - Part (b) Support the National AIDS Council and Secretariat (US$ 2.5 million)

14.     Under this component, the project provided support to: (i) Build capacity of NAC
for national leadership on HIV and AIDS; (ii) Coordinate support towards HIV-related
research and knowledge management in support of the learning-by-doing approach of the
project; (iii) Coordinate private-public-sector partnerships in response to the HIV and
AIDS epidemic and (iv) Support monitoring and evaluation of the project and the
national program.

Component 3 ­ Part (c) Support to Line Ministries (US$ 21.3 million)

15.     The component provided support to mainstreaming HIV and AIDS related
activities into all line ministries. The project supported various sector-specific responses
to the HIV and AIDS epidemic. This component had two sub-components:

Part c1 Support to Line Ministries (US$ 9.6 million)
16.     The sub-component supported sector specific responses to the HIV and AIDS
epidemic through annual action plans to address the internal impact of the HIV and AIDS
epidemic (i.e., the impact on the specific line ministry) and the external impact of the
HIV and AIDS epidemic (i.e., the impact related to the services provided by a specific
line ministry). The specific activities to be included in each line ministry work plans



                                             4

included: (i) capacity building for the mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS related activities
in the ministries' work plans; (ii) Information Education and Communication (IEC)
campaigns (such as the promotion of condom use) which promoted sustainable behavior
change among staff and clients; (iii) training of peer educators and counselors to promote
utilization of Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) services among staff, and provide
psychological support for those affected in each Ministry; (iv) promoting access to
condoms for staff; (v) promoting the prevention of mother to child transmission
(PMTCT) among staff, piloting of routine prophylaxis against opportunistic infections
(OI) for staff that have been infected with HIV; and (vi) impact studies to investigate the
qualitative and quantitative consequences of the epidemic on specified sub/sectors and
analyze possible and appropriate responses.

17.       In addition, each line ministry was expected to conduct activities specifically
relevant to its areas of comparative advantage. Fifteen line ministries were targeted4 and
five ministries were prioritized5.

Part c2 Support to MOH's National Program (US$ 11.7 million)
18.       The project design recognized the unique role that the MOH plays in the fight
against HIV and AIDS. This sub-component supported implementation activities to
provide care and support, and to mitigate the impact of HIV and AIDS for those affected
and infected, as outlined in the MOH's HIV and AIDS Work plan. Specifically, the
activities included: (i) scaling up of youth-friendly health services (since prevalence
among the 15 to 19 years old has registered a decline); (ii) increasing the number of
VCT centers at health facilities; (iii) supporting positive living 'post test clubs'; (iv)
strengthening the capacity to treat OIs (thereby improving the quality of life and
preventing premature death); (v) providing anti-retroviral drugs to improve the
prevention of the mother to child transmission (PMTCT) program (including treatment of
mothers and fathers recruited into the PMTCT program); (vi) provision of post-exposure
prophylaxis in rape and sexual abuse victims, as well as accidental infection in health
workers; improving laboratory support services for HIV and AIDS; (vii) increasing
awareness through IEC interventions; (viii) support for monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
activities; (ix) mainstreaming HIV and AIDS prevention into the curriculum of all
training institutions for health care workers; (x) improving blood safety and quality
control in the national blood transfusion system; (xi) promoting occupational safety for
workers in the MOH (through improved and safe handling of laboratory and other
medical waste, training of medical and support staff on occupational safety relevant to
HIV transmission and through provision of clear guidelines in cases of accidental
occupational exposure to HIV); (xii) promoting job security for members of staff affected
by HIV and AIDS while minimizing risk exposure of un-infected external clients in the
health sector; (xiii) mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS in workplace activities; and (xiv)
provision of overall support to other ministries in their HIV and AIDS-related activities.



4MOH; Education; Sport, Youth and Child Development; Community Development and Social Welfare; Science, Technology and
Vocational Training; Agriculture and Cooperatives; Labor and Social Security; Commerce, Trade and Industry; Finance and National
Planning; Home Affairs; Defense; Information and Broadcasting Services; Local Government and Housing; Works and Supply;
Energy and Water Development.
5Defense, Education, Health, Home Affairs, and Local Government and Housing



                                                             5

Component 4 - Part (d) Program Administration (US$ 3.5 million)

19.     Under this component, the project supported the Program Administration Unit
(PAU) in the day-to-day administration of project activities including monitoring use of
resources, processing all central procurement activities, administering withdrawal and
disbursement procedures, financial management aspects of project implementation,
project reporting, and providing managerial and administrative support to the project
implementing and coordinating agencies.

1.6 Revised Components

20.     Project components were not revised.




1.7 Other Significant Changes

21.     There were no significant changes in the design, scope and scale of the project.
However, in 2006 following the closure of the Zambia Social Investment Fund
(ZAMSIF), which was the lead executing agency of the CRAIDS component in the
Ministry of Finance and National Planning (MOFNP), the administration of this
component was moved from ZAMSIF to the PAU and the CRAIDS operational manual
was revised. Similarly, with the coming on the scene of the Global Fund to fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) and the US Presidential Emergency Plan for AIDS
Relief (PEPFAR), which provided substantial resources for procurement of ARVs under
the ART scale-up program, the Bank team fully supported the Government's decision
that planned activities related to the provision of antiretroviral (ARV) drugs would be
taken up under GFATM and PEPFAR support and the project support would focus more
on strengthening laboratory capacity for patient monitoring, concentrate on scaling up
prevention services at district level, strengthen capacity for blood safety and procurement
of drugs for OIs and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). It should be noted, however,
that the team carefully examined the benefits of ART and considered the possibility of
funding ART in the course of project implementation should more funds be needed.

22.     Furthermore, at the request of Government, the closing date of ZANARA project
was extended from February 28, 2008 to August 31, 2008 to support scaling up activities
under the community and health components using the foreign exchange rate gains. Two
reallocations of the grant were made among the components and expenditure categories;
the first on August 12, 2005 for reallocation of the unallocated amount, and also to take
into account contributions from the United Kingdom Department for International
Development (DFID) support to CRAIDS and the second, on January 3, 2007 to
accommodate the exchange rate gains resulting from the USD depreciation against the
SDR.




                                             6

23.     In March 2005, DFID through the Strengthening the AIDS Response in Zambia
(STARZ) program provided financing to the CRAIDS component in the amount of £1.21
million. In addition, the contributions from GFATM and PEPFAR substantially increased
the total funding available for HIV and AIDS activities in Zambia. Under the umbrella of
the NAC, ZANARA project team interacted with all agencies to maximize synergies and
avoid duplications. To that effect, it was agreed with the GFATM that the project would
support internal HIV and AIDS mainstreaming activities in line ministries while the
GFATM would concentrate on mainstreaming HIV and AIDS to external clients of line
ministries.

24.     In general these changes impacted positively on project results. For example, with
the additional financial contribution from DFID, an additional 183 community projects
were supported bringing the total community project funded from IDA and DFID to
1263. On the other hand, the agreed division of areas between the GFATM and
ZANARA regarding internal and external mainstreaming of HIV in line ministries which
was facilitated by NAC proved to be a challenge due to late disbursement of funds under
the GFATM. Consequently, the pace of implementation was slow and the resources
under the project overstretched to address both the internal and external mainstreaming of
HIV in the workplace.




                                           7

                       2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

25.      The Government together with the Bank team and key stakeholders carried out a
sound analysis of current, historical and trend data on HIV which allowed projections of
the likely evolution of the epidemic in the medium term6. The Bank engagement in HIV
and AIDS and its presence in other sectors contributed significantly to broaden and
consolidate the multi-sectoral approach to HIV and AIDS prevention and impact
mitigation beyond the health sector. The multi-sectoral approach and focus on
community-based interventions were important in raising awareness and mobilizing all
segments of society for prevention, care, and impact mitigation of the epidemic. This also
contributed considerably to reduction in stigma, an important deterrent of HIV prevention
strategies in most countries of the region.

Project Design
26.      As mentioned above, during project design, Zambia was facing a dramatic
situation characterized by high levels of HIV-related morbidity and mortality, particularly
among young adults, and an ever increasing number of OVC. At the time, the crisis was
not paralleled by the presence and volume of external support. In this context, the
ZANARA project pioneered support to a comprehensive and national response to the
epidemic, and its components were in line with the multi-sectoral approach and the needs
on the ground. The project was consistent with the multi-country AIDS program (MAP)-
2 eligibility criteria and the NASF for Zambia.

27.      The project design only proposed limited ART for PMTCT, and treatment of
affected parents. At the time, this was realistic because despite the observed excess
mortality and high morbidity associated with HIV infection, the project had limited
resources and the costs for ARV's at the time was prohibitive. However, the team
carefully examined the potential benefits of the ART program and considered the
possibility of increasing support to procurement of ARV's in the course of project
implementation in the likely event that more funds would become available. In retrospect,
the team made a good decision since other financiers came on board and supported the
scaling up of ART in Zambia.

28.      The project adopted a learning-by-doing approach and showed flexibility during
implementation. The CRAIDS component was particularly sound as it incorporated
lessons from similar projects such as the ZAMSIF and from other MAP projects in the
region, which recognized the importance of empowering local communities in the fight
against HIV and AIDS. The objectives of the project were clearly defined and the design
of components appropriate to meet the objectives.

Organization
29.      The design of ZANARA was flexible as it anticipated the involvement of other
important players in HIV and AIDS. The Government and Bank team did a thorough


6Living Conditions and Monitoring Survey (LCMS) 1998 and DHS 2002



                                                        8

appraisal of the institutional set up in different institutions including Government, private
and non government to manage the national response to HIV and AIDS. They also made
a good assessment about the prevailing political context and governance issues that
afflicted the MOH at the time. Consequently, and creatively, the Government and Bank
team agreed to house the ZANARA project management unit under the MOFNP, which
the Zambian Government accepted.

30.     These institutional arrangements are unique to Zambia since most HIV projects in
the region are attached to NAC and/or MOH and/or the President's or Prime Minister's
office. The team opportunistically took advantage of the existing ZAMSIF institution,
which had a decade of experience in implementing community development programs at
grassroots levels. The team involved ZAMSIF in the design of the CRAIDS component
and incorporated lessons learned from ZAMSIF experience in reaching out to
communities. The project components reflected the multi-sectoral approach needed to
address the HIV and AIDS epidemic. Private sector support focused on strengthening the
Zambia Business Coalition on HIV and AIDS (ZBCA), an umbrella organization for the
private sector on HIV and AIDS, and the provision of direct support to small business
organization for mainstreaming HIV in the work place under the CRAIDS component.

31.     Although an independent institutional review of ZANARA's institutional
arrangements was done before midterm in August 2005, Government did not discuss nor
make decisions on the recommendations provided in the review. This, however, did not
affect implementation of activities under the project or the national program. Overall the
institutional set up and procedures established allowed for full participation of
communities and other stakeholders in the implementation of various HIV and AIDS
interventions while observing IDA's requirements.

Government's commitment and stakeholder involvement and participatory process
32.     Confronted with the devastating effects of the HIV and AIDS epidemic,
Government developed, in a consultative and participatory process, the NASF to
intensify the response to the epidemic, as an integral part of the overall development
program of the country. During the design of the ZANARA project, consultations were
held with line ministries and key stakeholders from civil society. Government also
supported the main thrust of the project towards community involvement and capacity
building as publicly expressed by the then President of the Republic, during the
roundtable discussion on HIV and AIDS in November 2000. Subsequently, the
Government developed a strategic plan for the period 2002-2005 that emphasized a
multi-sectoral response with clear mandates of all stakeholders.             More recently,
Government developed the NASF 2006-2010 and mainstreamed it into the National
Development Plan for 2006-2010.

33.     The NAC endorsed the project design and the multi-sectoral approach proposed to
control the spread of the HIV and AIDS epidemic.

Assessment of risks




                                             9

34.        The ZANARA mapped and assessed seven critical risks. Four were rated modest,
one high (NAC and PAU capacity to coordinate and administer IDA projects
respectively) and two were rated substantial. The latter concerned the risk of being unable
to match demand for services with adequate supply, and the possible fiduciary difficulties
that decentralized institutions and agencies could face because of their weak capacity.
The overall risk assessment was rated substantial and represented a cautious approach by
the project team.

35.        In retrospect, this risk assessment proved to be right and the risk mitigation
measures proposed by the team were in the right direction. For example, to reduce the
risk of imbalance between project resources and demand, it was highlighted that other co-
financiers would be encouraged in a participatory manner. This materialized, for
example, when DFID provided an additional £1.21 million to CRAIDS. There was no
Quality at Entry Assessment by Quality Assurance Group (QAG) of the project.




2.2 Implementation

36.        Throughout its entire implementation period, the ZANARA project was rated
satisfactory and it was never at risk. The project was not restructured; however its closing
date was extended by 6 months from February 28, 2008 to August 31, 2008 at the request
of Government to complete implementation of activities under CRAIDS and MOH using
the US$12.8 million foreign exchange rate gain at the time.7

37.        At the midterm review (MTR), carried out in September 2005, the
implementation progress of the project was considered satisfactory and the
implementation of the CRAIDS component was considered excellent. For example, 410
sub projects had been funded, which was above the target set of 350 community
subproject. In addition, disbursements were ahead of schedule (52 percent of the US$
14.7 million allocated to this component had been disbursed) in line with the rate of
achievement of results. It was anticipated that if all planned disbursements and
commitments were made, the project would commit or disburse all project funds some 18
months before the original closing date. In this context, and given the uncertainty
concerning the amount of funds that would be available as a result of the exchange gains
in the remaining period, the MTR suggested suspending receipt of new proposals under
CRAIDS since all funds were committed.

38.        By September 2007, the project had disbursed fully the total amount of the
original grant of US$42 million. Furthermore, due to a high demand for sub-projects
from the community, the total grant value disbursed to subprojects increased to US$ 13.5
million. This was already above the initial Development Grant Agreement (DGA)
allocation for community grants of US$ 6.90 million. The allocation of US$4 5.64


7At effectiveness, the total grant amount of SDR 37.7 million corresponded to US$ 42.0 million. By August 31, 2008 the same grant
amount in SDR increased to US$ 50.46 million.



                                                              10

million to the community response increased the total amount to the component to US$
20.34 million. [2]. Similarly, the Ministry of Health was allocated an additional amount
of US$ 3.33 million mainly for procurement of drugs medical supplies and laboratory
equipment.

Factors which may have impacted positively on the Project's achievements

39.     Rapid and effective capacity building at community and district level: A key
contribution of the ZANARA project was its success in building capacity at the
community level in project management, program implementation, M&E, fiduciary
aspects, and skills in business management for income generating activities (IGA). The
project built the capacity of DATFs to undertake desk and field appraisal of project
proposals and follow up on implementation of community projects upon approval for
funding. This helped tremendously in monitoring the implementation and achievement of
set targets under the community projects. Another positive factor was the deliberate
decision by the CRAIDS management not to turn down any poorly designed proposal but
rather to work with the proponents through the DATFs to develop fundable proposals.
These measures resulted in better quality project proposals and early identification of
implementation constraints. Another positive factor was CRAIDS strong focus on
prevention. All community proposals had a component on prevention.

40.     The project helped to build capacity of traditional leadership in advocacy. This
had a positive influence in mobilization of communities to apply and submit proposals
for funding. They also provided leadership in monitoring the performance of subprojects.
For example, the Chairperson of the House of Chiefs who was also the Chairperson for
the Provincial AIDS Task Force for North-Western Province played a key advocacy role
in bringing the chiefs on board in fighting the epidemic. A number of Traditional
Leaders have held key positions in the HIV and AIDS response at national, sub-national
and community levels.

41.     The initial intense public awareness about the CRAIDS through the media,
political fora facilitated by Members of Parliament and institutions at district level such
as the District Councils and District Development Committees that penetrated lower
community structures helped to inform people about CRAIDS even in the remotest parts
of the country.

42.     Clear distinction of functions and roles between NAC and other implementing
agencies NAC's role was clearly defined through the NAC Act to provide coordination,
strategic guidance, and monitoring of the national response to HIV and AIDS.
Government, communities, civil society organizations and the private sector were
responsible for implementation. Financial and technical assistance for NAC's
institutional capacity building was provided through the ZANARA project and other
partners. The establishment of the PAU under the MOFNP, with clear management and
administration roles, helped clarify the mandates of Government agencies directly
involved in HIV and AIDS. In particular, it restricted direct involvement of the NAC in
managing the IDA support to the National Response.



                                          11

43.     The uniqueness of the Zambian institutional arrangements where the management
of the grant was detached from the NAC and integrated under the MOFND while
coordination including strategic guidance were the sole responsibility of NAC may to a
large degree explain the success of the ZANARA project.

44.     Within the public sector, Government policy is to mainstream HIV and AIDS in
all line ministries and Government departments facilitated the process of mainstreaming.
The project's focus on the five priority ministries i.e., Defense, Education, Local
Government and Housing, Home Affairs and Health helped to strengthen capacity to
reach out to their clients. For example, Ministry of Education continues to reach out to
pupils and students through established anti-AIDS clubs and guidance councilors. In
addition, mobile video vans provided to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
became foci for building partnerships. Stakeholders who were doing mobilization
activities on HIV and AIDS and dissemination of other health information had access to
these mobile vans to reach out to the general public.

45.     Strong Implementation Agency The PAU's performance in the Ministry of
Finance and National Planning was commended in most implementation support
missions. The PAU team had a good knowledge of the Zambian context, issues related to
HIV and AIDS and a sense of mission and dedication. Many of those interviewed during
the implementation completion and results report (ICR) mission, acknowledged the
guidance the PAU was able to provide to decentralized entities and implementing
agencies. The PAU dedicated a significant amount of time to training and capacity
building of implementers, particularly in relation to M&E, fiduciary and accountability
requirements. These investments in capacity building had a high rate of return, as
evidenced by the swift pace of implementation of the overall project component activities
and its outputs.

46.     Readiness of the Zambian society to deal with the devastating effects of the HIV
and AIDS epidemic. The seriousness and negative impact of HIV and AIDS in all aspects
of Zambian society as well as the community mobilization and support from other
partners, may have prompted most sectors of society to take action to curb the
consequences of HIV and AIDS epidemic. The rapid increase in the number of project
proposals from communities, civil society organizations, public sector, faith-based
organizations and others probably reflected the high demand for mitigating interventions
on the ground. In total, 5,000 project proposals were received, of which a quarter (1,263)
were funded (i.e 1,080 by IDA and 183 by DFID).

47.     Donor support to the National Program: At the inception of the ZANARA
project, only two other donors (NORAD and the Global Fund) provided HIV and AIDS
funding (See Annex 2 table 2). The importance of the ZANARA project rests not only on
its financial contribution but also on its ability to bring knowledge, expertise, lessons and
experiences from elsewhere. This made ZANARA catalytic in nature as it attracted more
and more donors to the sector. In 2004 the number of donors increased to 5 with the
addition of the United States Government (USG) and the UK Department for



                                            12

International Development (DFID) and altogether 13 external funders supported the HIV
and AIDS sector during the lifetime of ZANARA.

48.     This development has resulted in substantive increases in contributions to the
sector. The total amount provided in 2003 was only US$ 8 million (including 22% [US$
1.7 million] from the Bank). The subsequent year, the total amount to HIV and AIDS
increased significantly to US$ 97.8 million as a result of USG contribution of US$ 57
million and the GF first round which contributed with US$ 25.9 million. In the following
years the contributions to the sector increased as more donors came on board. From 2006
to 2008 the total external funding averaged US $258 million per year. Of this amount the
USG alone contributed approximately 63% or US$165 million per year on average.

49.     Bank contribution to total HIV and AIDS funding in Zambia has decreased over
the year as aggregate funding levels have increased. In 2003 ZANARA funded 22 percent
of the national response. Two years later the same percentage was at 9 percent and at the
closing of the project in 2008, ZANARA's contribution made up 1percent of total HIV
and AIDS funding. This clearly shows the importance of the Bank's engagement in the
sector at the inception of the project. During ZANARA's lifetime (2003-2008) a total of
US$ 1 billion was made available for HIV and AIDS in Zambia. Of this the Bank
contributed 5 percent, the USG 59 percent, and the GF 17 percent.

Factors which may have impacted negatively on the Project's achievements

50.     Long preparatory time: The relatively lengthy project preparation period, which
was a result of the country context at the time (i.e. 2002 elections, unwillingness to
borrow for HIV and AIDS), delayed the start of project implementation. The project was
originally supposed to have been an emergency operation to address an important threat
to the gains Zambia had achieved with its economic reforms.

51.     Line ministries' focal points. While all line ministries developed their HIV and
AIDS workplace plans, few ministries appointed full time HIV and AIDS focal points.
Appointed staff often had other full-time responsibilities. Implementing an HIV and
AIDS program on a part-time basis is in itself an enormous challenge and this
arrangement had an adverse impact on implementation of activities. The fact that only a
few line ministries allocated sufficient resources to HIV and AIDS in their budgets may
have been a sign of their degree of commitment. There was also a high turnover of HIV
and AIDS focal points in line ministries, which caused delays in implementation. The
recruitment of United Nations volunteers to assist focal points in line ministries helped
advance the work somewhat; however, it may also have compromised the sense of
ownership for the HIV and AIDS programs by the country itself as the United Nations
volunteers were not considered part of the civil service. Another issue was that limited
resources had a tendency to be too thinly spread on all line ministries instead of keeping
the focus (and resources) on line ministries with potential for high impact.

52.     Institutional capacity and staffing of the NAC. An important challenge in the
context of Zambia was the coordination of various inputs from development partners to



                                           13

support the NASF. It is incumbent on NAC to effectively coordinate the work of all
parties intervening in HIV and AIDS. During the life of the project, NAC was
restructured twice and the frequent changes in leadership at NAC affected its stability and
capacity. In addition, the lengthy recruitment of staff for NAC, mainly due to an inability
to attract qualified staff, adversely affected the NAC's capacity8. Despite these challenges
NAC was able to establish mechanisms to coordinate the national response to HIV and
AIDS based on the "three one" principles9.

53.       Initial lack of capacity in the areas of M&E and procurement. The project faced a
number of key challenges such as the inability of CSOs to focus on results. This was
initially due to lack of capacity in monitoring and evaluation of programs, but was later
addressed through increased capacity building in this areas. Another issue was the
procurement delays in MOH due to inadequate ability in forecasting and coordination
among program managers. The idea of using an UN agency for procurement of medical
supplies and laboratory equipment instead of building capacity was not successful and
caused delays in procurements by more than a year which in turn held up
implementation.

54.       Although the project provided support to ZBCA through NAC to promote the
private sector response to AIDS, clear modalities of support to the private sector response
to AIDS through CRAIDS were not defined during appraisal of the project until much
later. Subsequently, this affected the low disbursement to the sector (only three private
sector projects were funded under the CRAIDS component).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

55.       M&E Design. Although the design of the M&E framework was straightforward,
progress on the project M&E was initially slow. The Bank team and Government
counterparts did not provide for a separate budget line item for Project M&E under the
project. Initial data collection focused more on the inputs and outputs rather than on
outcomes. However, the Zambia team with technical assistance from the Bank moved
rapidly to establish the necessary system for a good M&E collection, i. e. program
activity reporting formats for the various levels of implementers (CRAIDS community
recipients, DATFs, line ministries, DHMTs and MOH). The selected indicators were in
line with the project development objectives and activities.

56.       M&E Implementation. The project M&E system was launched in 2004. The data
collection forms, including the M&E system, had undergone various revisions and
discussions with the relevant stakeholders and adjustments were made to the indicators
and the reporting period revised. To ensure good quality of the data, ZANARA adopted
process-monitoring tools such as an M&E checklist and data audit guidelines. These tools
coupled with regular supervision visits allowed ZANARA to promptly identify various



8Out of 52 positions, 36 were contracted locally, 6 were provided under the partnership of the Global Fund/Ministry of Finance and
NAC, and 10 positions are to date unfilled
9One agreed HIV/AIDS Action Framework, One National AIDS Coordinating Authority, and One agreed country-level Monitoring
and Evaluation System



                                                              14

errors (e.g. arithmetic mistakes and errors in filling the forms), and take corrective
measures, including facilitating capacity building, if needed.

57.    ZANARA also took part in the monthly meetings of the M&E technical working
group (TWG) chaired by the Central Statistics Office.          The M&R TWG provided
technical support to NAC. In addition, the project supported capacity building of
decentralized entities of the NAC at provincial and district levels using a standardized
national M&E training curriculum. For the last 5 years, ZANARA supported the capacity
building of NAC to conduct a Joint Annual Program Review (JPAR) with all
stakeholders. Other contributions to the national M&E system included support to the
development of the NAC database, NAC management information system (NACMIS),
M&E diagnostics and plans to strengthen the M&E system, support to surveys and
evaluations such as the HIV and AIDS Epidemiological Synthesis, the National AIDS
Spending Assessment (NASA), the 2004 antenatal sentinel surveillance and the 2007
demographic and health survey (DHS).

58.    M&E Utilization. The national M&E plan was developed with stakeholders and
donors to incorporate indicators with realistic targets. Indicators were applicable, in line
with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and an attempt was made to align
them with the 2004­2007 Zambia Results-Based CAS. Where there were variations
between indicators identified in the PAD and the Zambia CAS, the indicators in the
national M&E plan took precedence. The M&E plan consists of 55 indicators for
measuring the national HIV response (4 impact indicators, 17 outcome indicators, and 34
output indicators). The National Program benefitted from Bank M&E expertise in the
design of both the NAC 2002-2005 and 2006-2010 M&E frameworks. However, there
was no consistency in the way the indicators in the PAD and DGA were phrased. This
posed a challenge in monitoring.

59.    Although, the project M&E was designed earlier than the national M&E
framework, the project indicators are in line with the 55 indicators because the national
and project M&E adapted the global M&E standards for measuring the national HIV
response. Similarly the national reporting system adopted the reporting formats of the
project M&E system. The ZANARA project used available data between 1998 and 2003
as the baseline for the M&E results framework. Significant efforts were made to monitor
community projects through regular reporting and field visits. The reporting formats
generally were simplified to facilitate reporting by recipients, which resulted in regular
inflow of data and information for management purposes.

60.    An important observation relates to the use of prevalence data in the ZANARA
project. This is so because the project was not included in the MAP restructuring
(prevalence indicators were removed from MAP results framework because of complex
interpretation of HIV prevalence) and the result of the proxy indicators shows that HIV
prevalence rate indeed stabilized at high levels, although there has been some noticeable
decline in the young age groups and remained so during the period of the project. Over
the course of implementation, the project has been reporting on indicators specified in the
PAD, DGA and more recently the IDA15 and the Africa Action Plan (AAP) monitoring



                                          15

indicators. The use of M&E data in the project was generally good and exemplary
compared to other MAP projects.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

61.    Safeguards. The ZANARA project was rated "C" (no assessment) for
environmental safeguards at the time of appraisal but changed to environmental
Classification "B" before negotiations. This meant that a Health Care Waste Management
Plan (HCWMP) had to be prepared. Due to the electoral season in Zambia during the
second half of 2001, and frequent changes of staffing at the MOH, the HCWMP was only
finalized in 2002. In conformity with the HCWMP, incinerators were procured and
distributed to hospitals to improve health care waste management. A medical waste
management curriculum was developed and health staffs at provincial, district and
hospital levels were trained in disposal of hazardous medical waste, including sharp
objects. Traditional birth attendants, traditional healers, and community health workers
providing care to HIV and AIDS patients were also included in the training program.

62.    Financial Management. The risk assessment of financial management of the
ZANARA project was rated high due to the large number of implementing entities
handling IDA resources (especially at the community level) and the then history of
fiduciary problems in MOH. To mitigate the financial management risk, various manuals
and guidelines were issued under the CRAIDS component. The PAU also undertook
fiduciary training of staff from line ministries and all funded community sub-projects in
2005. This measure significantly contributed to strengthening the capacity of community
based organizations (CBOs) and members of the communities to manage and account
appropriately for the funds made available to them. The financial and disbursement
procedures put in place for community subprojects and line ministries, as well as the
monitoring of sub-projects by DATFs helped minimize the risks of wrong doing and
misuse of funds. The ZANARA was able to identify and take adequate measures on 15
community projects that had misapplied and/or misappropriated funds. The unaccounted
funds amounted to a total of US$ 44,674, which constitutes 0.22 percent of the total
CRAIDS funding (US$ 20.34 million) and only 0.001 percent of the total project
expenditures (US$ 50.46 million by August 31, 2008). The PAU has since paid back US$
44,674 to the Special Account but has continued to pursue the community projects for the
recovery.

63.    The project used largely manual accounting systems in the PAU. The FINPRO
computerized accounting package installed in 2005 did not functioned well and therefore
it was not used. This affected timely submission of the unaudited quarterly interim
financial reports (IFRs). In general, the project complied with reporting requirements
except for two occasions when the external audit reports were submitted slightly after the
due date.

64.    Procurement. Contrary to expectations, key procurement documents were not in
place when the project started; however, the PAU team managed to finalize the
Procurement Plan and the Procurement Manual by project effectiveness as these
documents were conditions for project effectiveness. Bidding documents, nonetheless,



                                          16

were not in place at effectiveness and this posed some challenges to the operations as the
PAU was not yet adequately staffed with procurement specialists. These deficiencies
were rectified during the first year of project implementation. The ZANARA PAD
provided only for one position in procurement although additional procurement staffs
were recruited during implementation. To build capacity in procurement at local levels,
the ZANARA PAU provided training on Bank procurement procedures to staff in
implementing agencies. The training, which included on-the-job and short-term training
programs, significantly contributed to improve fiduciary management and reduce
fiduciary risks. Generally throughout implementation, the proactive approach of the PAU
procurement unit was commendable as it responded to the changing demands, anticipated
procurement needs early, and submitted revised procurement plans as necessary.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

65.     Although World Bank Management had approved US$20 million IDA credit
additional financing to the ZANARA project based on a Government request, the
Government later declined to "borrow" from IDA instead of a grant for HIV and AIDS a
strategic decision made not to borrow for social sectors as own resources and grant
funding from development partners were available. Additional financing (US$ 20
million) for the ZANARA project was therefore dropped in December 2007.

66.     The Zambian Government, the ZANARA team, and cooperating partners
discussed different options to ensure continuation of the activities funded under the
ZANARA project. The activities under the NAC and line ministries components
including the MOH sub component have been integrated into Government and other
development partner's support to HIV and AIDS. Government has created a budget line
for each line ministry for continued support to the HIV workplace programs under
Government funding.

67.     The Zambian Government, through the MOFNP, indicated its willingness to
provide funding for the CRAIDS component at a total of US$ 1.5 million for the
remainder of 2008 after project closing, and approximately US$ 1.7 million in the 2009
budget. As an exit strategy, the MOFNP also directed that a sustainable solution for the
CRAIDS component should be developed jointly by the NAC and PAU and presented for
consideration. A concept note on CRAIDS support through the GFATM as well as a
proposal on the options for the institutional home for CRAIDS were submitted to the
country coordinating mechanism (CCM) in October last year for their consideration. In
summary, the Government recognizes the benefits of the ZANARA project, particularly
the CRAIDS component, and is willing to preserve the capacities built and gains made so
far.

68.     Keeping and making use of the technical expertise and experience accumulated
by the ZANARA PAU seems sensible to strengthen community involvement in the area
of HIV and AIDS. The presence of other partners providing substantial funding estimated
at US$ 443.63 million to selected aspects of the HIV and AIDS programs in Zambia is
timely in helping to sustain initiatives to control the epidemic. The Bank jointly with




                                          17

DFID has plans to support an impact evaluation of community response to HIV and
AIDS in Zambia starting July 2009.

69.     Sustainability remains a challenge as, in one side, Zambia is still a hyper epidemic
country, and, in another, availability of internal and external resources is limited,
particularly considering the global financial crisis. For example, the GFATM's current 10
percent cut on round 8 and further 25 percent efficiency cuts in future GFATM funding
will certainly limit Zambia ability to further expand HIV programs to vulnerable
populations. Also Zambia has not received IDA facility to fill key gaps. However, as will
be further discussed in the following sections, today in Zambia there are more
development partners supporting HIV and AIDS than five years ago, when ZANARA
project became effective. The total funding available for HIV and AIDS increased
significantly over the years. The amount of funding per se may not ensure long term
sustainability in the absence of harmonization, coordination and alignment under the
leadership of the Government. While there is room for improvement, Zambia made
significant strides in this direction as shown by NAC's steady improvement of its
coordination and facilitating role, and by MOFND strong leadership in managing HIV
and AIDS grants. Moreover, The GRZ decided to introduce a line budget for HIV and
AIDS in every line ministry. All these factors indicate that HIV and AIDS is perceived by
the Government and external partners as a high priority program for Zambia. Lastly, but
not least, the number and quality of HIV and AIDS players adds to the national capacity
to plan and implement effective HIV and AIDS preventive and mitigation programs,
which on aggregate may contribute the further reduce the spread of HIV and AIDS.




                                          18

                                3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

70.     The relevance of objectives, design and implementation is rated satisfactory.
Unlike first generation MAPs which focused primarily on impact indicators, the project's
key indicators focused on measurable outcomes which can be linked to project activities.
The assessment of outcomes is focused on the project's contribution to the overall
national response vis a vis the contribution from development partners and other
stakeholders especially in assessing the successes against the outcome and impact
indicators of the National Response.

71.     Objectives:   Presently, the objective of the ZANARA project is as highly
pertinent as it was at effectiveness. This is because Zambia is still a hyper-epidemic
country despite the progress made and will continue to face the consequences of HIV and
AIDS in the medium and long term. It is for this reason that increasing access to HIV and
AIDS prevention, care and mitigation services to high risk and vulnerable groups remains
a priority of the Government's Fifth National Development Plan (FNDP). The recent
National HIV and AIDS Strategic Framework 2006-2010 also reiterates the importance
of mainstreaming HIV and AIDS prevention and mitigation in all sectors. Finally, HIV
and AIDS feature high in the CAS which recognizes that HIV and AIDS, through its
destruction of human resources, pose a risk to the implementation of the FNDP unless the
Government continues its effort to combat the disease.

72.     Design: The design of ZANARA project components and the implementation
arrangements were adequate and creative. The project thrust for community involvement
in HIV and AIDS and mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS in the workplace was and is still
appropriate, as evidenced by the fact that the Government is ready to provide financing to
sustain implementation of programs. The project maintained its focus on vulnerable
groups as identified during the design stage and evidenced by the number of sub projects
benefiting youth, OVC, girls and other high risk groups. In the current context, an impact
evaluation component would be necessary to add to the original project design.

73.     Implementation. The model of community-driven projects is one of the key
aspects to the success of the ZANARA project. The implementation arrangements
established, including the support by decentralized structures facilitated the process. In
this regard ZANARA PAU played an important role in creating the capacity of
intermediary institutions (PATFs and DATFs) to facilitate and follow up implementation.
The project also contributed significantly to building the capacity of line ministries to
establish, implement and monitor HIV and AIDS programs in the work place. In addition,
MOH and other relevant institutions were trained in procurement of health sector goods.
The increased local capacity has resulted in a substantial increase in number of donors
and inflow of funds to the HIV and AIDS.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives




                                           19

74.     The overall achievement of the PDO is rated satisfactory: The access to and use
of HIV and AIDS prevention, care, and impact mitigation programs by vulnerable
populations increased significantly and in many cases targets were surpassed10. A good
proportion of the funded community initiatives directly benefitted vulnerable groups,
including OVC, youth, women and girls, and high risk groups such mobile populations,
prisoners, commercial sex workers etc.

75.     More importantly, all targets for the four key outcome indicators were reached
and surpassed (see below). The movement of these indicators in the `right' direction is a
result of concerted efforts by all partners to expand knowledge about HIV and AIDS and
increase access to prevention and mitigation services.

76.     The           ZANARA's                contribution to this effort includes    the
establishment/rehabilitation of 111 VCT sites, which constitutes 10 percent of the total
VCT centers in the country. It also contributed to the increase in knowledge about HIV
and AIDS in the general population, by training of peer-educators and counselors in HIV
and AIDS prevention and care, by supporting over 1300 awareness activities and the
production of dissemination materials such as HIV and AIDS newsletters. Today most
youths are aware of protection methods for STIs, TB and HIV. This could partly be
attributed to the increase in preventive interventions under the project: (i) the CRAIDS
where all community projects had a preventive component and sensitized communities
on HIV and AIDS, and (ii) the establishment of anti-AIDS clubs in schools and youth
friendly centers and information centers (under the Line Ministries component) (iii)
dissemination of information through print and electronic media by MOH and NAC.

77.     Another major contribution of the project was to increase the primary school
enrollment rate among orphans and vulnerable children (OVC). This achievement was
primarily a result of the CRAIDS component through which: approximately 45,000 OVC
were supported to attend school, 19 community schools were established and a total
22,000 OVCs received nutritional supplements. The fact that many CRAIDS projects
focusing on OVC were coupled with income generating activities (IGAs) ensured
sustainability over time.

78.     It should be noted that the project was designed to achieve increasing access to
and use of services. In addition to achievements in these areas, a number of key outcomes
include mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in MTEF, PRSP processes, and capacity building.
This helped the Government to leverage resources from other partners and stakeholders.
For example, a number of partners began funding communities directly since community
based organizations after receiving CRAIDS funding could demonstrate prudent
management of resources. Similarly, in the public sector, the capacity developed in
planning and mainstreaming helped line ministries to access financial support from other
partners. An important consideration concerns the link between HIV and AIDS program
outputs and outcomes, which is not always straightforward. Beyond the increase in access
and use of more HIV preventive services such as HIV educational sessions, promotion of
use of condoms, drama presentations, IEC materials, the expectation is that somehow


10See PDO indicators in data sheet and annex 2



                                                       20

adoption of safer sex behavior will take in not a too distant future. These changes
however do take time to occur and are a function of many other social-cultural factors. In
the Zambia context, it would appear that, as reported below, behavior change has started
to take place among young women and adults11.

79.       Moreover, as more people accessed VCT services, they learned about their HIV
status, and eventually enrolled in ART, and finally became less sick. This chain of event
may have made people change their perception about HIV and AIDS from a death
sentence to a manageable condition. In turn this perception, may have mobilized more
persons to get tested which may help reduce risky behaviors and contribute to reduce
HIV transmission. Also, increased access and use of these services result in increased
survival of those who benefitted and had a potential to slow the rate of increase of OVCs
and hence of dependency ratios. Certainly a good part of these changes may be associated
with prevention efforts that have been and continue to be implemented to date. These
positive results are a collective achievement of all those involved in HIV and AIDS
programs and are a demonstration that with sustained and coordinated efforts it is
possible to control the spread of HIV and AIDS. Such efforts shall be maintained and
supported

80.       The expectation beyond the immediate objective of the ZANARA project was
that it would contribute to slowing down the spread of the HIV and AIDS. It is worth
noting the decline of HIV prevalence and indeed of incidence, particularly among young
pregnant women, as shown in annex 2. While prevalence is no longer considered a good
measure of success, in the long term, it provides useful information about the evolution of
the epidemic in Zambia. According to the 2002 and 2007 DHS, it appears that the
declining trend is a reality although the epidemic in the young age group has stabilized
around 5 percent. Despite this success, Zambia still faces a hyper-epidemic that warrants
sustained efforts in the medium and long term.

Key Performance Indicators

81.       There were four key performance project development indicators to measure the
performance of the project:

82.       Median age at first sex increased by one year among both males and females by
2008 The indicator was tracked in young adults aged 15-24 years by 2008. The baseline
value for this indicator was 16.5 and at the end of the project the median age at first
sexual encounter increased by 2 years for both males and females [3,5]. This result is
encouraging and suggests that the Zambian youth may have begun to change their sexual
behavior. The achievement of this objective may have resulted from a combination of
various interventions from ZANARA project and other players. For example, under the
project, a number of activities focused on preventive interventions among the youth. Key
achievements included; the establishment of 139 youth-friendly health services, 143
information centers at the community level and within line ministries, 16 information and
skills training centers under the Ministry of Sport, Youth and Child Development, 117


11Reference to an article recently published showing reduction of number of sexual partners among adults (Check)



                                                              21

anti AIDS clubs in schools and colleges, and the training of 2,961 youth peer educators
and counselors, 144 behavior change facilitators as well as training of 600 teachers as
guidance counselors who reached out to 263,000 pupils by the end of the project12.

83.       Additional data from national demographic and health surveys 2002 and 2007
indicate an increase in knowledge among youths aged 15-24 years that abstaining from
sexual intercourse is a key intervention to prevent HIV transmission. This increased from
46 percent in 2002 to 83 percent in 2007 for females and for males the proportion grew
from 53 percent in 2002 to 84 percent in 2007. Similarly, between 2002 and 2007, the
proportion of young people aged 15-24 years reporting concurrent multiple sexual
partners reduced from 4 percent to 2.5 percent and from 30 percent to 20 percent for
females and males respectively. The downward trend of HIV prevalence in this age
group, especially among females, from 11.1 percent in 2002 to 8.8 percent in 2007 is
significant outcome. It is important to sustain the gains made so far, as well as increasing
donor support to the Government's HIV and AIDS strategy. However, it is worrisome to
note that there was an increase in HIV prevalence from 3 percent in 2002 to 4.4 percent
in 2007 among young men.

84.       Percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who are mothers or pregnant with their
first child reduced from 59.4 percent to 45 percent by 2008. There was significant decline
to 20.9 percent in 200613. The contribution of the ZANARA project stems from the
support provided for the development and implementation of IEC activities on HIV and
AIDS and sexual and reproductive health that reached 1,023,927 young adults.
Dissemination of IEC materials was done through youth-friendly health services, anti-
AIDS clubs in schools, information centers and through peer educators and counselors
(see annex 2).

85.        Reported condom use at last sex with non-regular sexual partner in 15-24 year
old increased from 30 percent to 45 percent for males and from 17 percent to 30 percent
for females by 2008. The most recent data from the 2007 DHS show an increase in
condom use at the last sexual encounter with a non-regular partner among the age group
15-49 years. This increased from 44 percent in 2002 to 50 percent in 2007 and from 33
percent in 2002 to 37.4 percent in 2007 for males and females, respectively. Less
pronounced increase in condom use was observed among young adults aged 15-24 years.
In this group condom use increased from 42 percent in 2002 to 47.7 percent in 2007 for
males and from 33 percent in 2002 to 38 percent in 2007 for females. Similarly, in the
15-19 years age group condom use increased from 32 percent in 2002 to 41.6 percent in
2007 and from 30 percent in 2002 to 36 percent in 2007 in males and females
respectively.

86.       The above trend is positive. Through the project more than 3,365,000 condoms
were distributed under the CRAIDS component in addition to condoms distributed under
the MOH subcomponent. In addition, the project supported development of fact sheets on
correct use of condoms which were distributed to stakeholders. Despite the progress


12ZANARA project reports
13Antenatal sentinel surveillance 1998 and 2006



                                                   22

made, a significant proportion of young adults 15-24 years old still practice unsafe sex
(78 percent of young men and 31 percent of young women14). This may indicate that
some groups have been left out or that behavior change communication interventions
have been less effective for this age group.

87.       Decrease in the primary school non-enrollment rate among orphans and
vulnerable children from x percent to x percent15 by 2008. This indicator was tracked as
increase in the primary school enrollment rate among OVC in Zambia. Currently, Zambia
has an estimated 1.2 million orphans of which 75 percent are orphaned from HIV. At the
time of appraisal in 2003, the estimated enrollment rate for OVC was 23 percent. This
increased to 102.4 percent by 2007. The percentage of OVC aged 0­17 whose
households received free basic external support in caring for the child increased from
13.8 percent in 2002 to 15.7 percent in 2007 and currently the school attendance rate of
dual orphans aged 10-14 years is 85 percent [9]. These successes have been possible with
support from development partners including the Bank through BESSIP.

88.       The community projects under CRAIDS supported enrollment of 49,631 OVC by
providing them with education materials and rehabilitating and equipping 29 community
schools. In these CRAIDS-supported community schools, the number of OVC enrollment
increased from 2,433 in 2003 to 13,312 in 2008, a 400 percent increase in enrollment. In
addition, CRAIDS linked these community schools to the Ministry of Education which
provided teachers and ensured continued support. In some cases community schools were
linked to the private sector that provided support for infrastructure development and other
educational materials.




Other Outcomes

89.       Proportion of pregnant women aged 15-24 years attending antenatal clinics that
test positive for syphilis. At the time of appraisal in 2002, the prevalence of syphilis
among pregnant women aged 15-24 years attending antenatal clinics was 7.5 percent.
This reduced to 2.7 percent in 2007 [10]. The project trained 424 staff from MOH and
other line ministries in PMTCT and 212 in syndromic management of STI. Also, STI
drugs, HIV and RPR test kits were procured for national wide use, and IEC materials on
STIs were disseminated. The project also provided support to the 2004 antenatal sentinel
surveillance study, the Zambia 2007 DHS.

90.       Number of research activities focusing on gender. Since other development
partners were already supporting research on gender, facilitated by NAC, the
Government and Bank team agreed to focus on survey and evaluations. Fifteen (15)
gender-related research studies were conducted supported by other development partners



14Zambia Demographic and Health Survey 2007
15The targets was not set since this was a moving target and the number of OVC was expected to increase. Thus, it was not clear how
many OVCs that would be reached



                                                               23

during the life of the project. The government used findings to inform the Gender
implementation plan of action for 2004-2008 and other sector strategies.

Achievements by component

Component 1 ­ Part A Community Response to HIV/AIDS (CRAIDS) (US$ 14.7
million)
91.        The achievement of this component is rated satisfactory. CRAIDS is one of the
most successful components of the project. CRAIDS projects were extremely successful
and able to reach the remotest parts of the country. The project helped to establish a
successful and transparent mechanism using Government structures to fund community
initiatives. Through this unique disbursement mechanism, funds for HIV and AIDS
activities were channeled directly to community groups. Hence, communities were put at
the center of the response to HIV and AIDS in Zambia. The CRAIDS component funded
1,080 community projects, an outstanding achievement that was more than 300 percent
above the set target of 350 projects. From 2005, DFID provided parallel financing for
CRAIDS which allowed the funding of an additional 183 community projects bringing
the total to 1,263. As of August 31, 2008, US$ 22.8 million was disbursed through
CRAIDS of which US$ 20.3 million was from IDA and US$ 2.5 from DFID/ (STARZ).

92.        The community projects were generally evenly distributed among the 9 provinces.
Most projects (89 percent under IDA) were implemented by community-based
organizations (CBOs), in line with the objective of helping communities respond to the
HIV and AIDS epidemic. Other community projects were implemented through Faith
Based Organizations (6 percent), NGOs (5 percent) and the private sector (1 percent). Of
the 1,080 community projects funded by the project, 927 benefited vulnerable groups and
were distributed as follows: 601 (65 percent) community projects benefited OVCs, 235
(25 percent) targeted youths, 54 (6 percent) benefited women and girls, and the remaining
37 (4 percent) targeted other high risk groups including the blind, commercial sex
workers (CSWs), the aged, prisoners, taxi/truck drivers, and fishermen/women. sixty (60)
focused on gender and HIV and AIDS. The types of interventions implemented covered:
prevention, impact mitigation, and care and support.

93.        CRAIDS helped to build capacity at the community level. A total of 244,306
community members were trained to become Behavioral Change Program Facilitators,
Drama Performers and Community/Psychosocial Counselors. Furthermore, 1.8 million
people were reached through prevention strategies out of which 765,757 were youths
representing approximately 15 percent of the youth population in Zambia. A total of
49,631 orphans (representing approximately 5 percent of the total orphan population in
the country) were supported to attend school through CRAIDS.16 Other major
achievements included; (i) Providing a catalyst for directly funding community
initiatives, by using existing Government structures and exemplifying that communities
can effectively design and implement innovative projects and account for resources; (ii)



16Generally, there has been a reasonable gender balance of recipients of different training programs although beneficiaries were more
girls than boys.



                                                              24

Creating sustainable links between sub-projects and service providers17 which
substantially increased the quality of support provided by community projects; (iii)
Transforming rigid cultural and gender norms at grass root level. For instance, of the
6,373 caregivers trained under CRAIDS 59 percent were male (in Zambia care-giving is
traditionally a female arena); (iv) Generating sustainable financing for a number of HIV
and AIDS initiatives at the community level, by coupling community projects with IGAs
and building capacity in project management.                                 About 45 percent of all community
projects had an IGA18.

94.        Since CRAIDS has not yet been evaluated thoroughly, it is difficult to discern the
overall cost-effectiveness of this component. However, the IGAs made available
resources for communities to sustain community project activities but also provided
educational support for OVCs and nutritional support to community members affected by
                                                                                                 HIV          and          AIDS.
    Box 1: Empowering women: The Tubombeshe Gender and HIV/AIDS                                  Although a number of
    project.
    A group of 20 women from the Kamakuti community in Kabwe district,                           community projects are
    Central Province, received approximately K 47.8 million (nearly US$ 13,500)                  now sustainable thanks
    to implement a gender and HIV/AIDS awareness program targeting other                         to the IGAs, the IGAs
    women on issues of HIV/AIDS coupled with sensitization on gender based
    violence. The project included a hummer mill and provided training on gender                 would have potentially
    issues and HIV/AIDS, human rights, and business management. About 100                        proven         even         more
    women in that community acquired knowledge on gender and became                              effective had they been
    empowered. They were able to increase their farming production 5 to 6-fold,
    which allowed them to cater for their needs and those of their entire family.                compulsory            for       all
    Some were able to purchase solar-powered TV sets and mobile phones. They                     CRAIDS projects and
    were also managing their hummer mills so effectively that they averted an                    had          they           been
    attempt by one member of the management committee (a man) to withdraw
    large sums of money from the IGA Bank account as they became more                            implemented               earlier
    knowledgeable about business management. In addition, with the profit they                   than       other         funded
    made from the hummer mill, they supported OVCs in their community. All in                    activities.            Another
    all, their economic status was raised and the quality of their lives improved
    considerably. One woman said "...before we started making money our                          question that remains
    husbands used to have other sexual partners but now they don't want to upset                 to be answered is to
    us for fear of breaking the marriage and losing the gains and benefits they                  what         extent          sub-
    enjoy..."
    They reported that their understanding of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and gender                   projects          will          be
    relations improved dramatically because of the training and education                        sustainable in the long
    provided under the project. They felt more empowered, and more importantly,                  term.
    because of the economic empowerment, their husbands reduced the number of
    sexual partners and spent more time at home. This is an important
    achievement as it presumably contributed to reduce the risk of HIV                           95.       The           biggest
    transmission.                                                                                challenge for CRAIDS
                                                                                                 was that it could not
meet the funding demands for projects proposed by the communities, which reached over
5,000 in total. Receipt of proposals was suspended by midterm since the component was
disbursing ahead of schedule and all resources were committed.

96.        Clearly this reflects not only the enormous needs in the community but also the
fact CRAIDS succeeded in channeling support to address issues the communities


17Linkages included, linking home-based care to health facilities and community schools to Ministry of Education and private sector,
as well as connecting IGAs to the Ministry of Agriculture and the private sector.
18IGAs ranged from hammer mills to rearing chickens, farming, tailoring, and brick­making, etc.



                                                               25

themselves identified as problems. The large demand for projects also indicated that the
epidemic remains a concern at the community level and for Zambian society in general.
Ownership and involvement of the community at every stage of the project cycle were
important factors contributing to the success of CRAIDS projects. Also community
engagement in day-to-day project management to ensure that all transactions were made
for the intended purposes of the project, as illustrated in Box 1, was vital to ensure
transparency and prevent misappropriation of funds. The contribution of CRAIDS to
communities accrued beyond the HIV and AIDS response and provided the minimum
conditions for people to help themselves and their communities, thus contributing to
overall community development.

97.     In addition, by building capacity at the community level, CRAIDS contributed to
new ways of supporting the HIV and AIDS sector by other donors, which increased their
allocations directly to communities. Community initiatives were supported within
existing institutions and were focused more on scaling up and strengthening existing
services.

98.     However, there were a number of challenges e.g., the high turnover of DATF
members. This had an adverse impact on the number of sub-projects approved for
funding in a district. The number of subprojects at district level ranged from 6 to 66 sub-
projects; in remote districts, transaction costs were higher mainly due to lack of
communication and poor road network. Another issue was that during the implementation
of CRAIDS commercial banks put in stiffer requirements for opening community
accounts. This delayed disbursements and implementation of activities by subprojects.
Furthermore, the fact that CRAIDS initially did not put a limit on number of proposals
that it could receive, gave false hope and expectations to communities that applied but
could not receive funding due to inadequate resources.

Component 2- Part (b) Support the National AIDS Council and Secretariat (US$ 2.5
million).
99.     This component achievement is rated satisfactory. When ZANARA was prepared,
and during the first year of project implementation, NAC was just a skeleton, it was
comprised of two senior technical staff (a Director General and Director of Programs)
and some junior support staff who operated from inadequate facilities. Today NAC is a
viable institution that is able to effectively execute its mandate of providing strategic
guidance, program coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the national response
through the "three ones" principle.

100.    Through funding from the project and subsequently, through the Joint Financing
Agreement, NAC was able to make significant strides in institutional capacity building. A
professional organization and staffing structure is now in place although some vacancies
remain in the organization. The roles of MOH and NAC have clearly been defined and
the institutional structure of NAC was developed to reflect its multi-sectoral mandate.
Previously, the technical working groups (TWGs)19 under NAC were duplicates of those
under MOH. This created confusion in implementation and coordination.


19On VCT, PMTCT, ART, TB, IEC, Safe blood etc



                                                26

101.    Multi-sectoral coordination structures have now been put in place, including six
thematic groups aligned to the six themes of the 2006-2010 NASF. The role of these
groups is to monitor the implementation of the NASF and support a more effective and
comprehensive roll-out of interventions. Higher level coordination has also been put in
place and includes the Sector Advisory Group (SAG), the Partnership Forum that feeds
into the decision making of the NAC board, and the Cabinet Committee on HIV and
AIDS. In addition to the NAC board, the NAC Secretariat also provides secretarial
services to the Country Coordinating Mechanism (CCM), the Cabinet Committee on HIV
and AIDS, and the Partnership forum. Lower level coordination include subcommittees
and self coordinating groups including youths, the private sector, People living with HIV,
NGOs, disabled people, religious groups, and women's group. Through these
coordination mechanisms, NAC has been able to improve planning, monitoring and
evaluation. The project helped to build capacity in NAC to develop annual costed plans
and hold joint annual program reviews. NAC has held four joint annual program reviews
and a midterm review of the 2006-2010 NASF. A monitoring and evaluation framework
and plan including a functional computerized NAC information system are in place with
significant support from the project. Furthermore, NAC has effectively coordinated the
UNGASS reports for Zambia.

102.    Although, HIV and AIDS research is currently fragmented and uncoordinated;
NAC has developed a research strategy and agenda on HIV and AIDS, and compiled an
annotated bibliography of research studies conducted in Zambia on HIV and AIDS, STI
and TB. NAC also facilitated the modes of transmission study, the National AIDS
Spending Assessment, Clinical trial of herbal and traditional remedies on HIV and AIDS
and the epidemiological synthesis. In addition, NAC, through its TWGs, has facilitated
development of the National HIV and AIDS policy, various technical guidelines on
prevention, treatment, care and support, IEC materials, tool kits and handbooks for
mainstreaming HIV and AIDS and gender, and strengthened planning capacity at the
provincial and district levels. The Joint Financing Committee (JFC) was established as a
condition of the ZANARA project to coordinate financial support for the national
response. The committee now operates under the multi-sectoral advocacy and resource
mobilization theme group. Furthermore, NAC put in place the financial, procurement and
procedures guidelines, with technical support from Deloitte.

103.    At provincial and district levels the AIDS coordinating structures consist of the
Provincial AIDS Coordinating Advisors (PACAs) and District AIDS Coordinating
Advisors (DACAs). These advisors have secretarial functions to support the PATFs and
the DATFs respectively. Although the decentralization of responsibilities has
strengthened the response to the epidemic, NAC still faces challenges of coordination at
provincial and district levels in part due to limited resources available for coordination at
these levels. As seen from the above, during the implementation of the ZANARA project,
NAC has evolved from a few people with a large mandate to a well functioning multi-
sectoral institution that is effectively responding to HIV and AIDS, TB and STI. During
NAC's period of transformation, it went through several challenges.




                                            27

104.      NAC faced a number of challenges including frequent changes of top leadership
in the NAC secretariat during the formative years affected continuity of programs and
implementation of institutional reorganizations (which happened twice during the life of
the project). This took much of NAC's time at the expense of executing its mandate. A
weakness in NAC's current structure is that most senior technical positions are funded by
development partners20 and there is heavy reliance on technical assistance to implement
NAC secretariat plans. The local response to HIV and AIDS through the Ministry of
Local Government and Housing as well as Municipal and City Councils remains weak
despite attempts to strengthen the response by the ongoing support through the
organization AMICAALL and development partners including the World Bank. In
addition, NAC has not done well on prevention and control of TB and has not taken
advantage of the synergies between TB and HIV and AIDS in programming of
interventions. This has hampered accelerated integration of HIV and AIDS and TB
programs.

105.      One major outcome is that Zambia now has an established and institutionalized
setup, in NAC, to continue leading the national response.

Component 3 -- Part (c1) Support to Line Ministries (US$ 9.6 million)
106.      The achievement of this sub-component is rated moderately satisfactory. This
component contributed to the mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS in 41 public institutions
in Zambia including 23 line ministries and 18 Government institutions. Some of the key
achievements under this component include: (a) Establishment of HIV and AIDS
workplace policies. About 1500 staff were oriented in developing HIV and AIDS
workplace policies21, which resulted in workplace policies in place in all 41 line
ministries and Government departments. Through launches of these policies about 20,000
staff were reached; (b) Approximately 600 employees were trained in HIV and AIDS
mainstreaming at the workplace; (c) As a result of the formation of 22 support groups, 29
solidarity groups and the fact that many senior public officers openly declared their HIV
and AIDS status contributed to reduction in stigma. A total of 307 employees were open
about their HIV status and more than 1,156 HIV positive employees have declared their
status within support groups. (d) Establishment of 123 HIV and AIDS Information
Centers, where more than 87 000 employees accessed information; (e) Institutionalization
of the budget line for HIV and AIDS activities in each ministry; (f) Establishment of 5
VCT centers where more than 17,000 employees accessed services including provision of
mobile VCT services while others accessed VCT services from public health facilities
and private sector. Condoms were also distributed widely.

107.      According to anecdotal evidence from interviews, the above listed achievements
have translated into decreasing levels of morbidity and mortality among public sector
employees.         A substantial weakness of this component, just like other components, is
that, it has not been evaluated on whether the outputs produced have translated into



20
  Global Fund, CDC, ADB and DFID funded eight technical positions within NAC.
21Gender issues were mainstreamed in workplace policies as well as training curriculums for peer-educators and sensitization
materials.



                                                           28

behavior change, reduced morbidity, absenteeism and mortality as well as increased
productivity in the public sector.

108.    There is however, a noticeable reduction in stigma and discrimination in the
workplace. Initially the project failed to target food supplements to people living with
HIV because of the associated stigma. The free ARV policy which gave hope to those
infected with HIV as well as information shared through peer education and support
groups (solidarity groups for both people infected and affected by HIV initially and
subsequently, formation of support groups specifically for people living with HIV)
helped to reduce stigma. Anecdotal evidence indicate that this increased access to
services such as counseling and testing including ART, and led to improved quality of
life of people living with HIV and subsequently to reduced absenteeism as evidenced
especially, form the Ministries of Education, Public Service Management Division,
Ministry of Youth, Sport and Child Development and Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services which have recorded reduction in absenteeism among
its employees.

109.    There is a clear correlation between the appointment of HIV and AIDS full time
focal points and the implementation of successful work place policies, such as in the
Ministry of Education and Defense. Continued appointment of part time focal point
persons for implementation of workplace programs was one of the weak links in the
implementation of this project component and it remains a major challenge in the public
sector in Zambia.

Part (c2) Ministry of Health National Program (US$11.7 million)
110.    The achievement of this sub-component is rated satisfactory. The subcomponent
established/rehabilitated 64 VCT centers, 8 ART centers and 73 YFHS. Laboratory
equipment worth US$ 3,741,904 was procured. In addition to equipment, the MOH
procured reagents and supplies worth US$ 5,502,421. ZANARA supported the National
Blood Transfusion Service in its program to improve blood safety, by purchasing tests
kits to screen for HIV, Syphilis, Hepatitis B, and blood bags totaling US$ 1,745,134. The
quality of clinical services has improved, as indicated by the Director for blood
transfusion services because the service is now able to separate different blood
components such as platelets, red blood cells concentrates, plasma for therapeutic use to
address the specific conditions of patients. In fact, before the acquisition of the above
equipment, doctors could only request whole blood for the treatment of their patients.
This has certainly improved the quality of care. This is a good case of a disease-specific
program contributing effectively to improving some elements of the health system.

111.    One of the key achievements of the MOH component was the improvement of
laboratory capacity and productivity through the employment of modern technology for
biomedical analysis. This not only expanded the HIV and AIDS -related diagnostic
services but also expanded the capacity of the laboratories to expeditiously respond to the
requests of clinicians.




                                           29

112.     The project funded the development and implementation of the health care waste
management (HCWM) plan by purchasing 9 incinerators and 100 sharp disposable boxes
amounting to US$ 629,159; training of health staff in HCWM i.e. 25 trainers of trainers
and 595 health staff; printing of HCWM guidelines such as minimum specifications for
health care waste incineration and technical guidelines on sound management of health
care waste; construction of the Environmental Health Unit at the University of Zambia
for US$ 208,881 and long-term training in Masters in Environmental Health.

113.     The project supported training of staff from relevant public institutions including
MOH, Zambia National Tender Board, NAC, PAU, Central Board of Health, and the
pharmaceutical Regulatory Authority in procurement of health sector goods. Despite
these achievements, procurement of equipment, drugs, and medical supplies was slow--
initially because of delayed feedback from the MOH on the quantities and specifications.
This was mainly due to inadequate capacity in forecasting and determination of
specifications, inadequate procurement capacity, and poor coordination among different
health program managers. Use of a UN agency (UNICEF) further delayed the
procurement of equipment by almost one year until this was cancelled and reverted to
international Competitive Bidding (ICB).

114.      The challenge still remains to improve coordination between the NAC and MOH
especially as it related to preparations of MTEF including monitoring and evaluation of
the national response. There will be need to strengthen capacities and clarify roles within
the two institutions.

Component 4 - Part (d) Program Administration (US$ 3.5 million)
115.     This component is rated Satisfactory. The performance of the PAU is one of the
key determinants of the success of the project. The PAU effectively operationalized the
project by developing funding modalities and internal control systems, carrying out all
central procurements according to plan and ensuring timely disbursement of project funds
ahead of schedule. Part of the accomplishments by the PAU can be attributed to their
effectiveness in supporting and building institutional capacity of key implementing
agencies such as the line ministries and communities. This was achieved by an enormous
effort undertaken in the areas of training, supervision and follow up. For instance, the
PAU trained 161 line ministry staff, 27 provincial staff, 144 DATF members and 3,000
sub-project committee members in M&E. Such efforts were possible because of the
dedication and professionalism of the PAU team. The PAU also took the lead in
planning, assessing progress, development and implementation of the project's M&E
plan dissemination of best practice22 and coordination of a regional exchange learning
event on community response for AFCS2 countries.

116.     The PAU developed a good team spirit and most members were well acquainted
with HIV and AIDS matters. The PAU also fostered good working relations with the
Bank team and other donors working on HIV and AIDS. This helped the team to



22Produced three documentaries on the CRAIDS component




                                                      30

undertake its tasks in an expeditious and efficient manner and was recognized by many
beneficiaries and stakeholders (MOH, community projects, and donors).

117.       As noted earlier, the ZANARA project disbursed on average close to US$ 1
million per month, and as of September 10, 2007 (four months before original closing
date), the project had fully disbursed the original grant amount of US$ 42 million and
was running on exchange rate gains of about US$ 10 million. The flow of funds to
special accounts worked well and ensured clear identification of different component
funds. The ZANARA project team anticipated potential cash flow problems as a result, in
part, to the good pace of implementation of subprojects at community level.
Consequently, it proposed an increase of the Special Account ceiling which the Bank
approved.

118.       However, there were some challenges. Despite the high numbers of implementing
agencies, including the community subprojects handling IDA funds, the PAU failed to
maintain a satisfactory computerized financial management system. The project relied on
manual input of information in Excel spreadsheets to record and report on project
performance. Another challenge was the attempt to use a UN Agency to procure most of
the health sector goods under the project. This led to substantial delays in implementation
of the procurement plan which negatively affected the disbursement rate. However, the
PAU successfully established contingent measures to recover the lost time in the
processing of procurements.

3.3 Efficiency

119.       The project funds and Government counterpart funds were used for the intended
purposes as described in the PAD and with due consideration to efficiency. The Project
management team ensured that the recipient of project funds submitted physical progress
reports and financial statements on a regular basis. This was facilitated by the district
AIDS task forces. The design of the reporting formats, including financial statements,
allowed for early identification of problems. This was necessary as the number of
community projects funded increased well above (1,080) the estimated target (350).

120.       The proportional spending (out of overall expenditure of US$ 50.46 million), the
administrative costs (at the center and sub-national levels) was 23 percent against the
planned 45 percent; similarly, the expenditures on health services was 70 percent against
the planned 40 percent and the expenditure on other social services was 7 percent against
the planned 15 percent. It is evident from the foregoing that most resources were spent on
service delivery23. By intervention areas, the expenditure was as follows; 33percent on
care and treatment, 17 percent on prevention, 15 percent on M&E and 12 percent on
mitigation. Under the administrative expenditure (23 percent), 18 percent was spent on
capacity building i.e. infrastructure development and training. This is in line with the
efforts to build the capacity of local implementing agencies and communities. It is also
worth noting the substantive amount that was allocated to M&E (15 percent) and may
explain why the project had a robust M&E system. In summary the spending pattern of


23See section D- sector and theme codes in data sheet



                                                       31

the project was well-balanced and consistent with the overall HIV and AIDS strategic
framework, PDO and components.

121.      The actual allocation of funds by components at the end of the project was above
the estimate at appraisal mainly because of the exchange rate gain. The allocation of the
exchange rate gains was mainly done to the main expenditure categories, the community
grants and health sector goods24.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

122.      These combined ratings allow for the overall outcome rating of satisfactory. The
project successfully achieved its objective. The main beneficiaries of the project had
greater access to HIV and AIDS prevention, care, support, and mitigation interventions in
all provinces at the closing of the project. There are indications through several reports
and data from DHS that, as a result, the youth started changing sexual behavior (e.g.
reduction in the number of sexual partners, fewer teenage pregnancies, and an increase in
the mean age of initial sexual encounters) which in turn has caused a reduction in HIV
prevalence rates among women younger than 20 years as well as in the overall adult
population of 15-49 years. Although it is difficult to prove the casual link between the
project and the positive trend in all key indicators, it is plausible to say that the
ZANARA, 1) by contributing with a substantive (particularly in the early stages of the
project's lifetime) and sustained financing to HIV and AIDS, 2) by triggering an inflow
of financing from other partners, and 3) by providing new and innovative mechanism for
channeling resources directly to beneficiaries has strengthen the multi-sectorial response
to HIV and AIDS in Zambia.                  Besides available data under the project, this was
evidenced by accounts from various stakeholders including the beneficiaries themselves.
In summary, the project relevance, design, implementation and achievement of the PDO
are satisfactory. All components are rated satisfactory except the line ministry component
which is rated moderately satisfactory mainly due to low disbursement and did not
perform well on reaching out to the clients. Although the disbursements under MOH
were high, the mainstreaming sub-component only spent 87 percent of its original
allocation.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
123.      An interesting feature of the CRAIDS component is that it is very likely that there
have been positive spill-over of the capacity building efforts undertaken under the
CRAIDS component to other areas of community development. This may have
contributed to reduced poverty levels. There are no studies to assess and quantify the
impact of CRAIDS on poverty levels. However, anecdotal observations and accounts of
many beneficiaries indicate that communities that successfully managed income
generating activities (IGAs) also improved their living standards. For instance, former
female commercial sex workers acknowledged that support received from CRAIDS IGAs
contributed to increase in income at household and community levels.


24See annex 1 project costs and financing



                                                 32

124.        Another key feature of CRAIDS-financed projects was the requirement that at
least 50 percent of the members of the subproject committee had to be female. This had a
positive impact on women's empowerment.25 The project was successful in striking a
reasonable gender balance of most CRAIDS interventions. Fifty-four sub projects
specifically targeted women and girls aimed at addressing underlying factors that put
them at risk i.e., gender inequalities, gender based violence including sexual abuse as
well as factors that hinder women's access to social services and sixty (60) focused on
gender and HIV and AIDS. At least 45 percent of Care givers trained to provide care and
support to people living with HIV were male. Six (6) subproject specifically focused on
male vulnerability to HIV including issues on male circumcision, mobile population such
as bus/truck drivers, fishermen and prisoners. The project ensured that gender was
mainstreamed in most sub-projects and in line ministries activities.

125.        The CRAIDS component offered important insights into different aspects of
community work. First, the success and high demand for subprojects by communities
indicate a high level of confidence in this initiative by communities. It may also be an
indication of CRAIDS' success in reaching out to communities. The grants brought
services such as VCT, sensitization and knowledge sharing activities including HBC
closer to households and families in line with the MOH vision on bringing services as
close to the family as possible. Similarly, the IGAs created employment opportunities for
community members and economically empowered communities and households. The
question that can be asked is whether Government agencies, public institutions and the
private sector can learn anything about how to reach the communities from this
experience. The wealth of information and good accounts of the positive impact of
CRAIDS on individuals and families is such that it deserves an analysis of its own.

126.        Although, Gender is addressed in project documents it appears the project did not
address gender issues during planning and implementation in a focused and well
structured manner. There were no gender specific indicators to track mainstreaming and
implementation of gender in the project. The project, however supported development of
guidelines on Gender mainstreaming in HIV and AIDS programs and incorporation of
Gender issues in the guidelines for mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS in the workplace.

127.        Under the CRAIDS component, at least 50% of the members of the project
committee were expected to female and the component did well in implementing this.
Fifty-four (54) sub-projects specifically targeted women and girls while nineteen (19)
sub-projects addressed high risk behavior among women specifically targeting the
Commercial Sex Workers. Six (6) projects focused on male vulnerability and male
involvements with 45 percent of care givers trained under the CRAIDS component were
male. The project also focused preventive intervention such as male circumcision. It is



25A woman quoted in the reports states "women who traditionally have been marginalized in decision making are making big strides
in the fight against HIV and AIDS. Women have taken leadership positions in the communities, the project committees, and as
volunteers. In many instances, women have actually initiated the responses to the HIV and AIDS problems their communities faced".




                                                              33

evident that various subprojects did address some gender elements which have been
successful in changing behavior. For example, women under Tubombeshe sub-project
have been able to gain some control over personal and household decision-making, are
now able to negotiate for safer sex, are earning an income in order to liberate themselves
from abusive husbands (see box1), Further, Mututa subproject project trained women in
karate to protect themselves from gender based violence these are experiences that should
be documented. However, the project has been reactive and has sought to address and
target women's urgent practical needs. There has been no critical analysis of program
activities vis a vis gender for long-term impact on gender relations. The project and the
national program could have benefited from an in-depth gender analysis especially of the
community response component.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
128.    Institutional strengthening was substantial. The project brought about a
mechanism for Government and non-state agents to work and support local poor
communities through a participatory process. This process increased community
ownership and showed in many cases that people can change their own circumstances for
the better when they are allowed to discuss their needs and participate in the management
of their programs. A successful community response to HIV and AIDS (CRAIDS)
funding mechanism for communities has been established within Government
institutional structures. Capacity at district level through the DATFs has been built to
support communities in proposal writing, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation
of community programs. In addition, capacity within NAC was built to coordinate,
monitor and evaluate national programs as well as capacity for mainstreaming HIV and
AIDS in the workplace in the public sector has been built and continues to be
mainstreamed in annual plans.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
129.    An interesting positive outcome of the ZANARA project was the deep
involvement of the MOFNP in the national HIV and AIDS response, which is uncommon
in other countries in the region. The decision by the MOFNP to continue providing its
own funds for CRAIDS is a clear indication of increased engagement of that level of
Government but may also have resulted from an appreciation of the results on the ground
and a better understanding of the challenges and issues around the HIV and AIDS
pandemic. Ownership by Government is indeed very high.

130.    Although, the project was highly successful in mobilizing communities to present
sub project proposals, a high number of proposals have been left unfunded. This poses a
risk of demobilizing the concerned communities in the fight against HIV and AIDS, a
fate that the country cannot afford given the current HIV situation.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

131.    Since this is a core ICR, no beneficiary and stakeholder workshop was held.
However, opportunities were created to interact with HIV focal points of line ministries,
CSOs, associations, and various stakeholders during the ICR mission. As mentioned
throughout this report, there was undivided agreement among participants that CRAIDS



                                           34

had impacted positively on the lives of communities. The CRAIDS was considered the
most successful component of the project by stakeholders (including donors) because it
helped reduce the suffering of many affected by HIV and AIDS and contributed to
alleviating poverty, particularly among vulnerable segments of the population (women
and OVC). The areas in which good practices were found included the training of
communities (and particularly women) in business and project management.

132.    Regarding the public sector and line ministries, it was recognized that awareness
of HIV and AIDS increased significantly among staff. More staff voluntarily tested and
those found HIV positive received adequate care and treatment. This development,
coupled with voluntary disclosure of HIV status by some staff, including senior officials
(at director level), helped to reduce stigma. Many staff members who had been trained as
counselor and peer educators were grateful for the knowledge they acquired through the
ZANARA and indicated that the level of mortality and absenteeism from work due to
HIV-related illness reduced considerably in the last 4-5 years.

133.    Development partners also praised the achievement and performance of CRAIDS.
Some expressed concern that with the end of the project there is a risk that the
mechanisms and processes put in place to reach beneficiaries on the ground may be lost.
While they welcome the decision of the MOFNP to allocate funding to sustain CRAIDS
activities after the closure of the ZANARA project, there is a concern that the knowledge
and experience accumulated by the PAU in managing this process may be lost. In
addition they indicated that the presence of the Bank in HIV and AIDS was pivotal in
scaling up the multi-sectoral response and in providing technical guidance, knowledge
and best practices from other similar projects. One particular area where the Bank has
been cited to have comparative advantage is in M&E and in health system strengthening.

134.    Most, if not all, NGO met during the ICR mission commended CRAIDS for the
support it provided to communities and the good collaboration and technical advice they
received from ZANARA PAU. There is unanimity on the observation that CRAIDS has
empowered the communities and families to be able to respond effectively to the effects
of HIV and AIDS. In many cases CRAIDS provided the seed money to start an IGA,
which continued even after the end of the project, providing the means for community
members to support OVC and other needy groups. The main concern most CSO voiced
was the importance of ensuring that after the closing of the project, CRAIDS would
receive more funding to support an ever increasing demand for support in the
communities. As mentioned earlier, the MOFNP decided to provide US$ 1.5million for
the remainder of 2008 to support CRAIDS and budgeted US$ 1.7 million for 2009. While
this is an important and commendable decision by the government, a firm decision on the
institutional arrangements to sustain this program has not been made. There is a fear that
the enduring legacy of the CRAIDS Project may be lost including the institutional
memory, experience and human resources, which altogether made CRAIDS operations
effective and efficient. Perhaps another legacy of the CRAIDS Project difficult to
measure in money terms is the capacity created at grassroots to plan, implement and
manage projects and businesses. This capacity will and can be used by community
members to help themselves. There have been good accounts of community projects



                                           35

funded under CRAIDS, which impact positively on the concerned communities and
vulnerable groups (please see Annex 8).




                                       36

                      4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

135.    The risk is moderate because (a) lack of adequate funding for continuation of the
community response to HIV and AIDS will weaken the capacity built within PAU and
CRAIDS components and undermine the institutional capacity that has been established.
The Government has however, shown commitment to sustain the capacity by; (i)
allocating US$1.5million in 2008 and US$1.7million in 2009 to finance CRAIDS
operations; (ii) including a provision for CRAIDS funding under round 8 application to
the GFATM, although modalities on disbursement are not clear; (iii) deciding that NAC
will provide administrative support to CRAIDS in the interim while Government makes a
decision on the permanent institutional arrangements for the CRAIDS. (b) Government's
decision not to use credits to finance social sectors including HIV and AIDS, despite the
existing gap that has been identified in financing the national response from analytical
studies including the NASA 2008, will affect the adequacy of resources to the national
response and may undermine the momentum that has been gained so far.

136.    There is an understanding by both Government and development partners that
HIV and AIDS still pose a threat to Zambia's development agenda. It is necessary to
translate this commitment into mobilization of adequate resources for specific programs
and actions to i) sustain the multi-sectoral response, ii) ensure continuity of the ART for
those already on treatment and iii) reach out more patients eligible for ART.




                                           37

                     5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
137.    Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. The preparation of the ZANARA project
was done in a difficult context and was relatively lengthy because Government was not
ready to borrow funds for HIV and AIDS. This led to the postponement of project
negotiations twice. At the time, the country was preparing for general elections and as
such Government institutions' attention and capacity, particularly of senior officials and
decision-makers, was focused on the election. NAC was fragile and its parent institution,
the MOH, had governance problems, which compounded the situation given the pivotal
role the MOH would play in HIV and AIDS prevention and care. However, following the
negotiations between the Bank and Government, the IDA credit was converted into a
grant. This development was well received by the Government and other stakeholders.

138.    The team did a good analysis of the political context and learned from other
institutions working on similar programs. Hence, CRAIDS was linked to ZAMSIF that
had experience in reaching communities. The team innovatively proposed that PAU be
situated within the MOFNP, contrary to other MAPs in the region that were attached to
NACs. The Government readily accepted these arrangements.

(b) Quality of Supervision
139.    The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory. The task team leadership was
changed twice after the project was successfully negotiated. The appointment of a
country-based TTL after the MTR added strength to the Bank oversight role and support
to the project team. The team carried out implementation support missions of very high
quality as reflected in reports and analysis. The mission teams were composed of a
variety of specialists in the areas of social protection, health, M&E, and fiduciary. A good
practice of these missions was the thorough follow up on decisions taken in previous
missions and the problem-solving orientation of the team as evidenced in the several
mission reports. The Bank team paid special attention to the capacity of the PAU in terms
of staffing, equipment and institutional arrangements. It also made appropriate
recommendations to assist the PAU to fulfill its mission of management of the project
and implementation support.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
140.    The rating of the Bank performance is satisfactory. The Bank did excellent
preparatory work under difficult circumstances. Moreover, during the implementation the
Bank carried out good quality supervision missions and the reports indicate that there has
always been a good follow up of decisions, and actions agreed upon. The team also
provided useful support to the project management team.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance




                                             38

141.    The performance of the Government is rated Satisfactory. The Government
developed the NASFs with the objective to reduce HIV and AIDS transmission and its
socio-economic impact through a multi-sectoral response, and mobilization of internal
and external resources. The Government also created the NAC as a coordinating entity of
the multi-sectoral response. The Government complied with all covenants in the grant
agreement. The Government counterpart funds were fully disbursed to the project.
Although Government was given the option to move to 100 percent financing of the
ZANARA project, they opted to provide counterpart funding as a sign of commitment to
the HIV and AIDS response. Furthermore, the Government committed to fund CRAIDS
after project closure. Although Government has not discussed the institutional
arrangements, this has not negatively affected the implementation of the project and
national program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
The overall rating for implementing agencies is Satisfactory.
142.    NAC As mentioned above, the capacity of NAC was developed with significant
support from the project, although its capacity to coordinate the many players in HIV and
AIDS could still be improved. A good feature of the NAC in Zambia is its focus on
coordination and monitoring and evaluation of the national response rather than grant
making and implementation. The performance of the NAC is rated Satisfactory.

143.    DATFs The DAFTs were instrumental in helping communities to appraise
subprojects (desk and field appraisal). They facilitated and supported communities to
write fundable proposals, followed up on implementation and monitored their
performance. DATF performance is rated Satisfactory.

144.    Communities The communities and CSOs showed a high level of engagement in
the fight against HIV and AIDS including their willingness and commitment to address
the challenges of HIV and AIDS at community level. In addition, they demonstrated high
levels of transparency and accountability in implementing the sub-projects. The
Community performance is rated Highly Satisfactory.

145.    PAU The performance of the PAU was impressive. It gathered capable staff who
played an important role in supporting implementation. The PAU acted autonomously
from the NAC. Also the staff showed high levels of professionalism and dedication to the
achieving the objectives of the project. The performance of the PAU is rated Satisfactory.

146.    Line ministries All line ministries are implementing HIV and AIDS programs for
their staff and families. Also line ministries included a budget line for HIV and AIDS
activities in their annual budgets, indicating significant commitment. One of the
challenges of line Ministries was the inability to reach out to their external clients. The
appointment of part-time HIV and AIDS focal points proved to be a deterrent in
mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS in Line ministries. The performance of line ministries is
rated Moderately Satisfactory.




                                           39

147.   Private sector The private sector through ZBCA has reached out to a number of
employees in various 80 companies. However, the CRAIDS component was only able to
support four private sector subprojects because mechanisms for support to the private
sector were introduced at the time when most resources under CRAIDS were committed.
The sector is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
148.   Based on the rating of Government and implementing agencies performance the
overall borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory.




                                          40

                                     6. Lessons Learned

149.     CRAIDS The CRAIDS component achieved remarkable results. There is an
enormous amount of information on positive experiences and accounts about community
sub-projects that cannot be summarized in this report. However, some of the lesson learnt
included: (i) CRAIDS demonstrated that when grassroots communities are facing crisis it
is possible to turn the crisis into an opportunity and to transform the lives of community
members for the better. To do this, it is essential that the communities own the process
and that resources (no matter how small) are made available and skills are built; (ii) The
capacity created at community level through sub-projects allowed communities to engage
in the development processes thereby creating a positive impact on the levels of poverty
among rural communities; (iii) Despite the relatively low levels of general education
among the rural poor in Zambia, it was possible to build a high knowledge among
community members about HIV and AIDS prevention, care, and treatment;                  (iv)
CRAIDS contributed significantly to reduce stigma in rural communities as those who
live with the infection are now well accepted in their communities and participate in
different preventive programs including support groups, counseling etc. HIV and AIDS is
no longer seen as death sentence; (v) The socio-economic benefits that accrued for
communities because of CRAIDS seemed to have had particular impact on women and
OVC, and may well bring more benefits in the future. For example, the education of
orphaned children up to university is certainly an investment with potential high returns.
Had these children been left out of school, they would possibly end up in the streets and
increase the social burden to the country; (vi) Viable IGAs enhance sustainability of
funded interventions. However there is room to improve the setting and management of
IGA [12].

150. It would be worth exploring the conditions under which these schemes operated
and identify key determinants for success. It would make sense for the Bank (and/or other
development partners) to undertake analytical work to investigate the full benefits of the
CRAIDS component for communities. Among other things, it would be interesting to
find out the extent to which, as a result of CRAIDS, gender relations were modified and
if so, how that impacted on the spread of HIV and AIDS.

151.     CRAIDS was also successful in creating an efficient system to channel funds
directly to communities and to interact with communities through all stages of project
cycle. Such approach could conceivably be replicated in other sectors including local
governments. A case study on CRAIDS could shed more light on the enabling factors and
conditions for the successful community initiatives. Important points to consider in
similar programs include; (i) the involvement of community members (particularly
women), (ii) effective inclusion of accountability mechanisms in project management and
(ii) the use of reliable M&E systems.

152.     Finally, despite the progress achieved, prevention of new HIV infections at
community level is still a challenge and should receive priority for the next generation of
subprojects. Communities should be encouraged to improve their understanding of the
dynamics of a generalized epidemic and the remedies needed to address it. Reducing the
incidence of HIV and AIDS is the ultimate goal and measure of success in the fight


                                           41

against HIV and AIDS. This goal should be on the radar screen of everyone involved in
HIV and AIDS work.

153.     However, the successful community mobilization did not match with an effective
referral system to health facilities. Although the impact of the community response was
not built in the design, there are plans to measure the effectiveness of the response with
support from the Bank and DFID.

154.     The multi-sectoral approach In Zambia the multi-sectoral approach gained
momentum, particularly in the public sector. Most programs in line ministries are geared
to internal clients and less has been done for external clients. This is probably due to the
tacit agreement that the external response would be handled by Global Fund. A good
lesson and practice is the importance of the inclusion of a budget line for HIV and AIDS
in all line ministries and developing workplace policies that clearly outline the mandates
for management, staff and the institution as well as other key relevant stakeholders in
mainstreaming HIV/AIDS. This is a clear demonstration of commitment and such budget
line should be transformed into HIV and AIDS preventive activities and ultimately into
outcomes, i.e. less civil servants being infected and or falling ill due to HIV.

155.     Mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in line ministries took the form of a standard menu
of interventions. Interaction between ministries was enhanced through the planning
meetings.     This opened avenues for sharing information and lessons learnt in
implementation of work place activities. However, line ministries still need to work on
external mainstreaming and there is also an urgent need to strengthen work place
programs within the private sector especially small business.

156.     Retention of trained youth volunteers at youth friendly health centers is still a
challenge. There is a high turnover among youths running community youth projects.
Outreach activities where youth interacted with adult health staff were less acceptable
and less likely to succeed than those where interaction was among youths themselves.
However, designated youth centers in places where privacy and easy access was assured
were more likely to succeed than those established in crowded clinical settings.

157.     Fiduciary issues: Clearly the ZANARA project made considerable efforts to
ensure that implementing agencies use funds in a transparent and accountable manner.
The amount of funds misused/misappropriated is in practice immaterial relatively to the
total amount spent. This was possible because of three main reasons: (i) the use of
simplified and clear guidelines for financial management, procurement, and reporting; (ii)
the effort undertaken at the outset to build capacity in fiduciary at community levels; and
(iii) the tracking of processes at all levels, which permitted timely identification and
resolution of bottlenecks.

158.     An important area that had a positive impact on the pace of project
implementation is procurement. ZANARA project procurement processes issues were
identified during initial stages of implementation and steps were taken to build the
capacity of various players to improve procurement processes. This has not been the case



                                            42

in some MAP projects whereby procurement constitutes a stumbling block in the
implementation of project activities. This is an area of Bank comparative advantage
which should receive more resources and attention to create the necessary capacity and
systems among recipients of Bank funded programs.




                                        43

       7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
159.    The Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) through the Ministry of
Finance and National Planning sent written comments on the draft ICR. The government
concluded that "the ZANARA project successfully provided HIV and AIDS prevention,
care and support and mitigation services" in compliment to GRZ's strategy to fight
HIV/AIDS. The GRZ highlighted the demand-driven feature of the CRAIDS component,
with its unique identity and disbursement mechanisms, which allowed direct financing of
community initiatives for prevention, care and mitigation of HIV and AIDS in the
communities. It underscored that only 25% of the total 5,054 sub-projects received were
funded and highlighted the fact that CRAIDS identified with the large demand for
projects at the community level. It also credited the project for its multi-sectoral approach
and contribution to reduce stigma in the workplace resulting from implementation of HIV
and AIDS programs in line ministries. Overall the comments by the government are in
agreement with the contents of the draft ICR as it recognizes ZANARA project outputs
and contribution to the overall national HIV and AIDS control program. Through the
NAC, Government has acknowledged the Bank's comparative advantage in institutional
capacity building for AIDS programs in the Africa region and has requested for
continued support to institutional capacity building especially coordination at the
decentralized levels.

(b) Co-financiers
160.    DFID and the manager of the Strengthening the AIDS Response Zambia
(STARZ) Program, provided written comments on the project. The partnership between
STARZ and CRAIDS was considered as highly successful. It was highlighted that
CRAIDS administered its funds in an efficient, accountable and fully transparent mode.
Furthermore, CRAIDS was praised for its flexibility to accommodate a new donor and
the high quality of financial, M&E and narrative reports produced in due time. A major
concern raised by STARZ is that of the future and continuity of the CRAIDS, which has
not been firmly decided, risking losing the institutional memory, human resources and
experience accumulated during the last five years. In addition DFID noted that the
disparity between the demand generated for community initiatives and funding available
may have resulted from insufficient brokerage by CRAIDS to leverage of other sources
of funding such as the Global Fund.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
161.    Community and faith based organizations, associations of drivers and community
leaders commended the project achievements. It was also explained that the project
contributed to change the lives of people at grass root level and in the work place. There
is unanimous recognition that the project made a significant contribution the mobilize
communities to respond to the HIV and AIDS crisis through the CRAIDS component.
Most stakeholders strongly recommended that the CRAIDS component should receive
more funds to respond to the increasing demand from the ground and to the unfinished
agenda of the fight against HIV and AIDS.




                                           44

                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                   Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                      Percentage of
         Components             Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                                                                        Appraisal
                                   millions)           millions)
PART A - SUPPORT FOR
COMMUNITY RESPONSE                     14.70              20.34           1.38
TO HIV/AIDS
PART B - SUPPORT TO
THE NATIONAL AIDS
                                        2.50                1.97          0.79
COUNCIL AND
SECRETARIAT
PART C - SUPPORT TO
THE LINE MINISTRIES                    21.30              23.43           1.10



Part C1 - Line Ministries               9.60                8.39          0.87

Part C2 - Ministry of Health           11.70              15.03           1.28


PART D - PROGRAM
                                        3.50                4.72          2.15
ADMINISTRATION


          Total Baseline Cost          42.00              50.46           1.20

Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00          0.00

Price Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00          0.00
           Total Project Costs         42.00              50.46           1.20
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00           .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00           .00
   Total Financing Required            42.00              50.46           1.20




(b) Financing

                                                  Appraisal Actual/Late
                                   Type of Co- Estimate       st Estimate Percentage
         Source of Funds
                                    financing       (USD         (USD    of Appraisal
                                                  millions)    millions)
Borrower                                        4.00         4.24        1.06
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                          42.00        50.46       1.20



                                        45

                            Parallel
DFID/STARZ                             0.00    2.49    1.00
                            funding
TOTAL GRANT                            46.00   57.20   1.18


                         GRANTS TO SUB-PROJECTS
IDA Grant to subprojects               6.90    13.5    0.87
DFID/STARZ Grant to sub     Parallel
                                       0.00      2.07  0.13
projects                    funding
TOTAL GRANTS TO SUB-
                                               15.58   1.00
PROJECTS




                                  46

                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 - Part (a) Community Response to HIV and AIDS

Support for community-based sub-projects which were prepared and submitted
through agreed institutional mechanisms.
A total of 1263 sub-projects were funded by CRAIDS through agreed institutional
mechanisms. About 15 percent of these projects were funded under DFID/STARZ. The
funded proposals represented 25 percent of the total number of proposals received (5,054
proposals were received in total). The number of proposals funded greatly exceeded the
target, which was set at 350 funded sub-projects.

The community projects were generally evenly distributed among the 9 provinces (range 105-
147). Eighty-nine (89) percent of project under IDA were implemented by community-based
organizations (CBOs), 6 percent by Faith Based Organizations; 5 percent NGOs; and the private
sector (1 percent). Of the 1,080 community projects funded by the project, 927 focused on
vulnerable groups i.e 601 (65 percent) community projects benefited OVCs, 235 (25 percent)
targeted youths, 54 (6 percent) the women and girls, and 37 (4 percent) targeted other high risk
groups including the blind, commercial sex workers (CSWs), the aged, prisoners, taxi/truck
drivers, and fishermen/women. Sixty (60) focused on gender and HIV and AIDS. The types of
interventions implemented covered: prevention, impact mitigation, and care and support.

Support for capacity building and training of community volunteers, peer educators,
and master trainers in HIV prevention strategies including counseling.
Through the CRAIDS component lots of capacity building and training have been
provided to communities. Table 1 summarizes number of people trained for each cadre,
target group for outreach and number of people reached by the trained community
members.

Table 1. Summary of Capacity Building Provided at the Community Level
 Target          Name of cadre trained      Target     group       for No. of people
 group     for                              outreach                     reached
 training
 144             Behavior change agents Youth                            19,849
 2,775           Community counselors       Community members            129,131

 12,811          Peer educators             Community members            634,413
 2,808           Youth peer educators       Youth                        129,453
 313             Youth counselors           Youth                        3,610
 965             Drama performer            Community members            865,172
 5,986           Care givers                HBC clients                  43,296
 426             Psychosocial               Chronically ill clients      6,032
                 counselors           and
                 treatment      adherence
                 supporters

Support for establishment of support groups for people living with HIV




                                           47

Over 282 sub-projects that provided home-based care (HBC) were supported through
CRAIDS. A total of 5,986 care givers were trained and 4,446 HBC kits were procured to
serve approximately 46,000 HBC clients (1827 bicycles were procured for outreach).
Functioning HIV and AIDS support groups now exist in all 72 districts (the target was set
at 25 districts) and these 110 support groups for PLWHA have over 10,804 members.
Another positive impact of CRAIDS was that it was able to reduce stigma at the
community level. Part of this achievement was made through the 2357 PLWHA who
were trained in advocacy and positive living. Furthermore, a HBC guideline was
developed and 10,000 copies were printed and disseminated to the communities.

Support for orphans and vulnerable children
The following activities were supported under CRAIDS to mitigate the impact of
HIV/AIDS on OVCs; education, food supplements, beddings and clothes, and
psychosocial support. A total of 49,631 OVCs received educational requirements such as
fees, uniforms and other scholastic materials. Furthermore, 19 community schools were
rehabilitated and to date 12,450 OVCs have accessed these schools. This resulted in a 21
percent increase in OVC attending schools before and after projects in beneficiary
communities (the target was set at 10 percent). Nutritional support was provided to
24,855 OVC beneficiaries, and 4,643 received other material support such as clothing
and beddings.

Capacity building for the District Response to HIV and AIDS
Activities with the objective to build capacity at the district level to effectively respond to
the epidemic included the distribution of 106,897 IEC materials. An additional 10,000
blind and deaf people were also reached through 2,500 Braille brochures and sign
language HIV and AIDS materials. Moreover, 102 Anti-AIDS clubs were established in
102 schools serving over 12,000 members. Twenty information centers about HIV and
AIDS were rehabilitated and supported in selected schools, which have been visited by
more than 35,000 community members. Furthermore, almost 1.3 million contacts was
made with youth through drama, sports, debates, recreation and musical shows and 67
youth centers were established, serving a total of 67,000 youth.

Outside the school environment, sensitizing, appraising and coordination of HIV and
AIDS prevention and care was also done at the district level through 72 functioning
district HIV and AIDS task forces (DATFs). A total of 1,734 people (both community
members and PATF/DATF members) were trained in fiduciary procedures and manuals
were developed (in e.g. loan application procedures, project appraisal guidelines, M&E)
to facilitate CRAIDS project implementation. In addition to these activities, the
communities were involved in at least 7 national and 54 regional stakeholders' meetings
held (in 2004 and 2006) to share information on implementation of the community AIDS
response. They also hosted a Learning Exchange Activity for Southern Africa countries
implementing MAP programs in 2007.

Component 2- Part (b) - National AIDS Council

Build capacity of NAC for national leadership on HIV and AIDS



                                           48

The project contributed to the institutional strengthening of NAC through procurement of
office equipment and vehicles, funding of many coordination activities, meetings,
workshops and capacity building for the PACAs and DACAs. The number of staff
members in NAC increased from four at baseline to 40 people at the closing of
ZANARA.

The project helped to build capacity for strategic planning at the national, provincial and
district levels i.e development of 2002-2005 National HIV and AIDS Strategic
Intervention Plan, the 2006-2010 Zambia HIV and AIDS Strategic Framework and
HIV/AIDS district strategic plans. This included support in both development and costing
of the plans. Furthermore, a National HIV and AIDS communication and behavior
change strategy was developed, and approximately 5,000 copies were printed and
disseminated.

NAC developed guidelines on gender mainstreaming in HIV and AIDS programs and
incorporation of gender issues in the guidelines for mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS for
workplace programs. Guidelines on OVCs, Treatment and Care, Pediatric ART,
Community Strategy, ART accreditation and Operational guidelines by all Technical
Working Groups were developed and disseminated (5000 copies each). Milestones in
mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in public institutions were the organization and facilitation
of (i) a workshop on mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in development programs, (ii) a
hearing on the legal aspects of HIV and AIDS and rights for 102 Members of Parliament,
and (iii) HIV and AIDS mainstreaming workshop for 23 Permanent Secretaries from the
line Ministries, which included dissemination of ZANARA's achievements. These were
important events because of the impact that modern leaders, such as parliamentarians and
Permanent Secretaries, and traditional leadership can have by leading by example in the
area of HIV and AIDS.

Capacity for all (72) district AIDS task forces was built to support communities in project
proposal writing, implementation and monitoring of community projects. The issue of
transportation was a key constraint impeding coordination, monitoring and evaluation at
the district and community levels by the DATFs. Therefore, the ZANARA project
decided to provide 54 vehicles in addition to 10 provided by UNDP. Furthermore, NAC
has formed strategic partnerships with PLWHA by engaging with the Zambia Network
PLWHA (NZP+) established to constitute 72 district chapters. The 72 DATFs also
include representatives of PLWHA as members.

Coordinate support towards HIV-related research and knowledge management in
support of the learning-by-doing approach of the project
NAC supported one clinical trial on herbal and traditional remedies for HIV and AIDS,
built capacity for epidemiological synthesis and a national AIDS spending assessment,
helped to establish the institutional bio-safety committee (IBC), developed the code of
ethics and conduct for traditional and alternative medicine practitioners, and supported
the adoption of WHO guidelines for clinical observational studies on traditional herbal
medicines in the African region.




                                           49

Through the technical working groups in NAC, various technical and operational
guidelines were produced and disseminated every 3 years. Furthermore, 23 editions of an
HIV and AIDS newsletter in English and in 8 main local languages were produced, as
well as 23 editions of HIV and AIDS fact sheets, which reached about 3 million, people
(about 27 percent of Zambia's population). The newsletter sought to share and
disseminate best practices in the area of HIV and AIDS and covered the following topics:
the HIV and AIDS Epidemic in Zambia, NAC's plan of action, VCT, PMTCT, Condom
Use, Zambia National Blood Transfusion Services, ART National Program,
Opportunistic Infections, Traditional Remedies for HIV and AIDS, etc.

Other means of dissemination included HIV and AIDS information on an electronic bill
board at a shopping mall in the capital city, eight annual trade fairs and agricultural
shows and distribution of 20,000 HIV Impact and Response Posters to stakeholders.
Through these channels approximately six million people were reached. A directory of
HIV and AIDS service providers in Zambia was also produced and disseminated in
10,000 copies. It is now being updated on an annual basis. Furthermore, five World AIDS
Day commemorations were supported, through development of annual HIV and AIDS
themes, printing and dissemination of over 200,000 copies of IEC materials, as well as
facilitation and commemoration of the day from the national to the district levels. Among
the highlights of these days were the Candlelight Memorial (reaching out to over 4
million people) as well as the leadership workshop for traditional leaders on community
responses to HIV and AIDS.

Coordinate private-public sector partnerships in response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic
The NAC, in collaboration with other development partners, supported the Private Sector
Partnerships and coordination through the Zambia Business Coalition on AIDS (ZBCA).
This resulted in an increase in membership of ZBCA from 18 in 2003 to 70 in 2008 (the
target was set at 36) reaching out to over 121,157 private sector employees. Through
support from ZANARA, ZBCA is now implementing its 2006-2009 strategic plan. The
organization now has a website, information center for members, and it is able to monitor
and evaluate members' programs as well as provide services through the Zambia AIDS
Partnership. In addition to ZBCA, the lower business forum on AIDS was established.

Support monitoring and evaluation of the project and the national M&E system for
HIV/AIDS
ZANARA supported the development and operationalization of the M&E framework and
plan. This included the development of M&E indicators, baseline data collection,
strengthening the M&E capacity in NAC, establishing systems for the joint annual
program review, development of district strategic plans and the translation of 325 copies
of the National M&E strategic plan into Braille. NAC conducted four joint annual
reviews and one joint mid-term review of the national AIDS strategic framework 2006-
2010 during the life of the project. Other activities under this indicator included the
development of the 2002-2005 & 2006-2010 National HIV/AIDS/STI/TB M&E plan,
standardization of the national M&E training curriculum, training in M&E of 216
provincial and district staff, development of NAC activity reporting system and
computerization of NAC Management Information System.



                                          50

Component 3 ­Part (c) - Line Ministries

Component C1 ­ Mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in the Workplace

Following is the aggregate picture of the outputs under Component 3.

Build capacity for the mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS-related activities in the
ministries' work plans
A total of 23 Line Ministries (LMs) and 18 Government institutions26 were supported by
ZANARA. 1,473 staffs were oriented in developing HIV and AIDS workplace policies,
which resulted in workplace policies for all LMs and Government institutions. Through
launches of these policies, over 19,367 staff members and various stakeholders were
reached. Furthermore, all LMs and Government institutions now have a budget line for
funding HIV and AIDS-related programs from Government resources.

Training was a key activity under this sub-component. Approximately 600 employees
(mainly HIV and AIDS Committees members, Line Ministries' HIV and AIDS focal
point persons, AIDS Coordination Advisors and UNVs) were trained in HIV and AIDS
mainstreaming at workplace. An additional 70 employees were trained in M&E. Four
hundred and forty-nine staff were trained as care givers, who reached over 9,420 staff and
their family members. Moreover, about 70 employees were trained by NZP+ on the
formation of support groups for HIV and AIDS positive people.

LMs and Government institutions were equipped to more effectively carry out HIV and
AIDS activities. The following items were procured with support from ZANARA: 155
television sets, 153 video cassette recorders, 123 desktop computers, 37 laptop
computers, 77 uninterrupted power supply devices, 77 printers, 740 bicycles (to support
HBC outreach activities to about 25,000 people), 65 First Aid Kits and 10 mobile video
vans (to strengthen capacity for dissemination of HIV/AIDS information national wide
through the provincial offices).

Furthermore, gender issues were mainstreamed in the training curriculum for peer
educators and counselors as well as in sensitization materials on HIV and AIDS and
workplace policies. Twenty employees from the Cabinet Office were trained in gender
and human rights and 80,000 copies of a book on "Sexual Violence in Zambia" and other
IEC materials on life skills development for the girl-child were procured and distributed
to Ministries, of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training. All the 41
LMs now have gender-specific activities included in their HIV/AIDS policies and work
plans.




26Cabinet Office, Office of the President, Auditor General's Office, State House, National Assembly, Electoral Commission, Human
Rights Commission, Teaching Service Commission, Administrator Generals Office, Prisons, Police Service Commission, Central
Statistics Office, Zambia Wild Life Authority, Judiciary Service Commission, Anti-Corruption Commission, Public Service
Commission, National AIDS Council, Drug Enforcement Commission that are not directly supervised by a Line ministry were
supported.



                                                              51

Anti-AIDS Clubs and information centers in 20 colleges were established under the
Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training. Over 8,665 employees
received nutritional support (more than 792,545 Gorji's sachets were purchased and
distributed). Twenty two support groups were formed by employees living with
HIV/AIDS as well as 29 solidarity groups comprising both HIV positive and negative
staff. This was part of a strategy to reduce stigma in LMs. Now 307 employees are open
about their HIV status and more than 1,156 HIV positive employees have declared their
status within support groups.

Implement IEC campaigns for staff and clients awareness promote condom use and
provide for sustainable behavior change among staff and the clients by extension
A total of 123 information centers were established as a source of information on HIV
and AIDS, sexual and reproductive health and behavioral change. Over 87,942
employees have accessed information through these centers. Furthermore, more than
831,000 IEC materials have been printed and distributed which reached about 8 million
people. In line ministries, a total of 2,272 employees were sensitized on HIV and AIDS
and more than 68,166 employees were reached with HIV and AIDS messages. The
following outreach activities were organized: five World AIDS Day Commemorations
(reaching about 32,479 employees). 265 lunch hour sessions (conducted by trained peer
educators or psychosocial counselors), and 1,267 demonstration sessions on the correct
and consistent use of condoms. Furthermore, 23,499 employees were sensitized in
various HIV and AIDS themes adapted for the workplace (e.g. HIV and AIDS
mainstreaming, stigma and discrimination, VCT, ART adherence, PMTCT, couple
counseling, Behavioral Change, Gender and HIV, etc). As mentioned in previous section,
10 mobile video vans were procured to support dissemination activities.

Train peer educators and counselors to promote utilization of VCT services among
their staff, and provide psychological support for those affected in the Ministry
Through the project the following cadres were trained: 2,259 peer educators (who
reached 137,469 employees and their families), 1,203 psychosocial counselor (who
reached over 80,294 employees), and 600 guidance counselors (who were teachers under
Ministry of Education). The guidance counselors reached about 263,000 pupils. In
addition, 823 staff received training in Peer Education, Community Care and
Management of HIV/AIDS, and STI Management.

Five VCT centers were established in four LMs and over 7,689 people accessed these
services. Of these, 1,374 employees were referred for other services such as ART and
PMTCT. Furthermore, 313 mobile VCT services27 provided 9,457 employees with
counseling and testing. Senior Government officials, such as Ministers and Permanent
Secretaries, took the lead in HIV/AIDS testing.

Promote access to condoms for staff
LMs obtained condoms from the Ministry of Health and distributed these through
strategic places within the workplace. Information centers were also used for condom
distribution. As previously mentioned, 1,267 demonstration sessions on the correct and


27These were set up through a collaborative partnership with USAID-supported New Start Centers.



                                                             52

consistent use of condoms took place in LMs during various lunch hour sessions and
workshops.

Promote the prevention of PMTCT among staff, piloting of routine prophylaxis against
OI for staff that have been infected with HIV
The outputs included 40 staff from the police service who were HCWM, 80 from
Ministry of Defense were trained in Syndromic Management of STIs and ART and
100,000 copies of STI Management handbooks were printed and distributed by the
Ministry of Defense, 5,000 copies of Illustrative Basic Facts on STIs were developed and
printed by the Ministry of Energy and Water Affairs and 16 Youth Centers under
Ministry of Sport, Youth and Child Development were rehabilitated.

Undertake impact studies to investigate the qualitative and quantitative consequences
of the epidemic on specified (sub)/sectors and analyze possible and appropriate
responses- This was not done.

Below are outputs from Line Ministries that focused on their comparative advantage to
reach out to their clients;
1. Ministry of Education
   (i) Mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS prevention into the teachers' curriculum and for
           the orientation of new teachers employed. This was done starting with
           Chalimbana Teacher Training College for in-service training of teachers in
           2005. In 2007, a series of program development workshops that aimed at
           incorporating HIV/AIDS in technical college curriculum for skills colleges
           under directorate of open and distance education and to form HIV and AIDS
           management      and   coordination    committees     and    training of  peer
           educators/mentors in all the 14 colleges of education.
   (ii) Expand HIV and AIDS and STI related counseling and testing to schools,
           colleges and institutions of higher education, using peers and parents as key
           resources.
           ·   140 University of Zambia students were trained as peer educators and
               counselors as key resources for in-house HIV and AIDS sensitization and
               counseling sessions, such as offering counseling services at the UNZA
               clinic.
           ·   Procurement and distribution of 80,000 copies of a book entitled "Sexual
               Violence in Zambia" to Ministry of Education and Ministry of Science,
               Technology and Vocational Training, respectively, and other IEC
               materials targeting Life Skills development for the girl-child.
           ·   43,000 copies of booklets on "Things You Should Know About HIV and
               AIDS, Abstinence is Best, Girls' Adolescents' Sexuality Concerns, When
               No Means No!, Youth HIV and AIDS Package, Get the Facts about HIV
               and AIDS".
           ·   Training of 600 Guidance teachers under the Ministry of Education. These
               are responsible for counseling of pupils and act as focal points for the
               implementation of the Re-entry Policy for girls that fall pregnant in
               schools ­ MOE can take proactive measures to ensure that girls affected



                                          53

              by the HIV and AIDS epidemic themselves or their families have adequate
              support mechanisms to continue with their education.
          ·   Supported Health Day for MOE staff and their families, about 800 people
              attended.
  (iii)Establishment of support groups for teachers and other staff affected by HIV and
          AIDS. In collaboration with USAID PEPFAR program, 5,100 were mobilized
          for VCT and ART, 1,147 went for VCT. Thereafter the Project with technical
          support from NZP+ trained 70 teachers in satellite schools as TOT to enhance
          of support group formation. 377 support groups were formed as a result.
  (iv)Monitor and evaluate the impact of HIV and AIDS in the education sector, in
          collaboration with other ministries and relevant agencies. The Project
          supported 400 participants from all units of the Ministry of Education up to
          district level, as well as teachers, to attend a national workshop on the World
          Bank Policy on the Educational Sector Response to HIV and AIDS.

2. Ministry of Sport, Youth and Child Development
  (a) Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience
      through sporting and other youth activities for the dissemination of HIV and
      AIDS prevention and care information. The Project supported the MSYCD to
      hold six (6) edusport activities for the Youth and Other Line Ministries at the
      national stadium. At such fora, whose attendance was over 5,000 people (1,226
      from LMs and over 4,000 spectators at each occasion), HIV and AIDS IEC
      materials and condoms were distributed, drama and mobile VCT services were
      also provided.
  (b) Stimulate the development of youth-led HIV and AIDS initiatives, including
      recreation, sports club and adolescent reproductive life and health-related
      initiatives.
          ·   Further, rehabilitated and equipped sixteen (16) Youth Resource and Skills
              Development Centers under the Ministry of Sport, Youth and Child
              Development (MSYCD) and provided them with HIV and AIDS IEC
              materials. The resource centers provide skills training and micro-finance
              to out-of school OVC and are also used as HIV and AIDS and
              reproductive health centers for the Youths. All the students are taught
              Family Life Education and peer education in addition to life skills.
          ·   Trained 30 child counselors for the National Service camps used as
              rehabilitation centers for former street kids. It was recently reported that
              15 of these children have since applied for admission at the University of
              Zambia.
          ·   Director of Child Development was sponsored to attend World Bank
              workshop on Helping Orphans and Vulnerable Children in New York,
              USA.
          ·   Further support was provided for the Ministry to host the 4th National
              Consultative Workshop on OVCs and disseminate the finding of the 2004
              Situational Analysis on OVC.
          ·   Supported the Forum for Youth Organizations in Zambia to host the
              National Youth Development Council Convention for 45 participants.



                                          54

3. Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training
  Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience
  through the curriculum at the vocational training centers and other outlets for the
  dissemination of HIV and AIDS prevention and care information.
         ·   Established 30 HIV and AIDS information resource centers as well as
             training of peer educators in colleges under the MSTVT, across the
             country. Procured and distributed 9,000 copies each of booklets on
             Condoms and Life and Sex and the Youth, respectively.
         ·   Trained 10 staff and students each from the 30 training institutions and
             colleges in peer education. Average number of students at each college is
             600 students.

4. Ministry of Labor and Social Security
  (i)    Stimulate company-led, workers associations-led and union-led HIV and
         AIDS initiatives at workplaces. These activities will be targeted at particularly
         vulnerable professional groups such as long distance truck drivers, migrant
         labor, traders, fishermen, and hotel and tourism industry workers. Supported
         attendance to two international workshops by policy makers and stakeholders
         from the private stakeholders of the Transportation sector on the Transport
         sector's response to HIV and AIDS and a second workshop on Mainstreaming
         HIV and AIDS Prevention Strategies in Transport Investment. Consequently,
         there's been increased involvement of the private stakeholders in the
         development of the HIV policy for the sector and public/private sector
         partnerships in the implementation of a joint work plan. For example, the
         Project was able to support the establishment of a wellness centre for the
         Drivers' Association of Zambia. The IOM has pledged continued funding to
         support the Transport Sector Response through NAC, post ZANARA Project
         support.

5. Ministry of Home Affairs
  (i)    Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external
         audience and other relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV and AIDS
         prevention and care information.
         ·   Rehabilitated an HIV and AIDS management office at Sikanze Camp to
             house a national team of HIV experts such as Program Manager, VCT
             Specialist, HBC Specialist, IEC Specialist and ART Specialist. The office
             is used as a centre for community meetings pertaining to the above
             specialized areas.
         ·   Rehabilitated an HIV and AIDS coordination centre at Lilayi Training
             school for the Police.
         ·   Contributed to the establishment of the Child Protection Unit of the
             Zambia Police Service, which in collaboration with Ministry of Youth,
             Sport and Child Development and Ministry of Community Development
             and Social Services, mobilized street kids that were sent to rehabilitation
             centers.



                                       55

  (ii)   Provide targeted HIV prevention, care and mitigation services for all police
         and prison workers and populations.
         ·   Provided nutritional supplements to 1,500 police officers and their
             families.
         ·   Rehabilitated and equipped a VCT/PMTCT/ART wing at the Zambia
             Police Hospital at Sikanze Police Camp, including provision of laboratory
             equipment such as CD4 facs count machines and hematology and
             chemistry analyzers.
  (iii)  Train police and prison health care providers, care givers and social workers
         and counselors on HIV and AIDS prevention, diagnosis, clinical management
         and social support.
         ·   101 officers were trained as peer educators and counselors.
         ·   40 members of various support groups within the Police camps were
             trained as TOT in home based care and health care waste
             management.
  (iv)   Train police and prison managers in HIV and AIDS control activity and
         management.
         ·   36 Provincial HIV and AIDS coordinators were trained as trainers to
             manage HIV and AIDS activities in Police communities dotted around the
             country.
         ·   105 Prison Warders and Immigration Officers were trained in
             mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in Prisons as well as border areas and
             assisted in developing a workplace policy.

6. Ministry of Defense
  (i)    Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external
         audience and other relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV and AIDS
         prevention and care information.
         ·   HIV and AIDS sensitization through edutainment of 5,050 military staff
             and their families.
         ·   40,000 laminated sets of 30 picture codes of STI brochures 1 and 2 were
             produced and disseminated.
  (ii)   Provide targeted prevention, care and mitigation services for all members of
         the armed force and their families. 500 bicycles were procured for home based
         outreach in army barracks across the country.
  (iii)  Train armed forces health care providers, care givers and social workers and
         counselors on HIV and AIDS prevention, diagnosis, clinical management and
         social support.
         ·   40 Health staffs were trained in syndromic management of STIs.
         ·   30 Health staffs were trained in PMTCT.
         ·   Provided 53,200 sachets of nutritional supplements for staff and their
             families.
         ·   Two laboratory technicians were trained in the operation and maintenance
             of facs count machines.




                                        56

    (iv)    Train armed forces managers in HIV and AIDS control activity and
            management. The full-time HIV and AIDS focal point persons were trained in
            HIV and AIDS mainstreaming and management at the workplace.

7. Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Services
    Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and
    other relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV and AIDS prevention and care
    information.
            ·   Procured 10 mobile video vans for dissemination of HIV and AIDS
                information to communities in provincial centers and documentation of
                best practices.
            ·   Developed 10,000 posters for dissemination to other LMs and the
                community at large.

8. Ministry of Local Government and Housing
    The Ministry conducted HIV and AIDS sensitization and capacity building
    workshops for 300 Mayors and Councilors facilitated by AMICCAAL.

9. Ministry of Mines and Mineral Development
    Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and
    other relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV and AIDS prevention and care
    information. The Ministry conducted HIV and AIDS Sensitization for 100 Members
    of the Small Miners Business Association at Mapatizya Mine Area in Kalomo and
    procured 80 bicycles for information dissemination.

10. Ministry of Transport and Communications
Utilize the comparative advantage of the ministry in access to external audience and other
relevant outlets for the dissemination of HIV and AIDS prevention and care information.
Procured 40 First Aid Boxes for use by Traffic Officers at Accident Scenes.

Line Ministry's Sub-Component C2 ­ Ministry of Health

Scaling up of youth friendly health services, since prevalence among the 15 to 19 years
old has registered a decline.
Seventy-three youth friendly health centers were established in all provinces and 6,984
youths were reached through these centers.

Increasing the number of VCT centers at health facilities, as well as support positive
living 'post test clubs'.
Sixty-four VCT centers were established and 108,104 clients were reached through these
centers by the end of the project; 231 lay counselors and 1,539 peer educators from
selected community members were trained and these reached out to 44,253 people in the
community and through health facilities. Furthermore, 132 STI providers were trained
and a total of 24,000 people were treated for STI.




                                          57

Strengthening the capacity to treat opportunistic infections (OIs), thereby improving
the quality of live and preventing premature death.
Drugs for Opportunistic Infections worth US $1,568,360.74 including RPR test kits and
drugs for STIs were procured for national wide distribution. The development of
guidelines on Medical Ethics on HIV/AIDS and guidelines on Oral Manifestation of
HIV/AIDS was supported. A total of 1,000 copies of these guidelines were distributed
and 132 STI providers were trained. Furthermore, laboratory equipment (i.e. CD4 Facs
count and 10 Facs calibar machines, 203 hematology and 20 chemistry analyzers, 43
Binocular Microscopes, 188 Centrifuges [2 refrigerated], 43 PH meters, 50 Analytical
Balances, 29 Elisa Micro Plate Readers/Washers 10 Water Distillers and 93 Water Baths,
2 Automated Immuno-assay System for blood screening, 2 Plasma Freezers and 2 ultra
sound units) worth US $4,620,263.42 were procured. Laboratory testing reagents for the
above-mentioned laboratory equipment worth US $4,696,477; and HIV, RPR, Hepatitis,
Serological test kits at a cost of US $1,056,747.50 were all procured through the PAU.

Moreover, work on HIV/AIDS Management and ART for 120 Pharmaceutical Society of
Zambia members were held and 500 bicycles were procured to support HBC outreach. To
avoid co-infection (with malaria), 85,000 ITNs were procured and distributed. The
Medical Council of Zambia developed ART guidelines that were printed in 5,000 copies,
and eight ART centers were established; 97 ART providers were trained and an estimated
40,833 clients were reached.

Providing anti-retroviral drugs to improve the prevention of mother to child
transmission (PMTCT) program (including treatment of mothers and fathers recruited
into the PMTCT program); and post-exposure prophylaxis in rape and sexual abuse
victims, as well as accidental contamination in health workers.
With the coming on the scene of the GFATM and PEPFAR, which focused more on
antiretroviral treatment and prophylaxis, it was agreed that the ARVs for PMTCT
program including treatment of mothers and fathers recruited into the PMTCT program,
the post-exposure prophylaxis in rape and sexual abuse victims, as well as accidental
contamination in health workers would be taken up under GFATM and PEPFAR support.
ZANARA concentrated on scaling up prevention services, strengthening laboratory
support and procurement of drugs for OIs and STIs.

Through support from ZANARA the following cadres were trained; 537 health workers
(in PMTCT, ART and STI management), 424 PMTCT providers, and 231 lay counselors,
1,539 peer educators. At the closing of the project a total of 53, 000 women had enrolled
in PMTCT.

Improving laboratory support services in HIV and AIDS
As previously mentioned laboratory equipment worth US $4,620,263.42 were procured.
This included CD4 Facs count and 10 Facs calibar machines, 203 hematology and 20
chemistry analyzers, 43 Binocular Microscopes, 188 Centrifuges (2 refrigerated), 43 PH
Metres, 50 Analytical Balances, 29 Elisa Micro Plate Readers/Washers 10 Water
Distillers and 93 Water Baths, 2 Automated Immuno Assay System for blood screening,
2 Plasma Freezers and 2 ultra sound units. Furthermore, HIV, RPR, Hepatitis, Serological



                                           58

test kits (at a cost of US $1,056,747.50) were procured through the PAU. Thirty staffs
were trained in medical laboratory services including the maintenance and use of Facs
count machines.

Support for M&E activities, including establishing an effective surveillance system and
strengthening the existing information system.
Fifty computers were purchased and distributed to 50 districts for HMIS data processing
and 117 provincial and district MOH staff trained in M&E. Furthermore, the 2007
Demographic and Health Survey was supported through procurement of drugs for the
treatment of syphilis, RPR kits, stationery and plasma freezers and data analysis
processing.

Mainstream HIV and AIDS prevention into the curriculum of all institutions of
training for health care workers
ZANARA supported the revision of the curriculum to include HCWM. Five Lusaka-
based health training institutions started to use the revised curriculum. The new curricula
will be used by all institutions after training of tutors. HCWM included in pre-service
training of health staff.

Improve blood safety and quality control with the national blood transfusion system by
providing HIV testing kits and maintaining high standards.
The project procured 93 blood bank fridges (which were distributed to general and
districts hospitals throughout Zambia); 70,000 blood bags, 87,500 HIV test kits, 87,500
Hepatitis B test kits, 87,500 Hepatitis C test kits; 70,000 Syphilis test kits, 90 blood
transportation cool boxes. The total worth of these procurements were US $1,895,134.42.
A total of 223,109 blood units were collected and screened for HIV, Syphilis and
Hepatitis-B. With this support, the blood bank achieved separation of whole blood into
components such as platelets, serum or red cells. This improved the quality of clinical
care.

Promote occupational safety for workers in the Ministry through improved and safe
handling of laboratory and other medical waste, training of medical and support staff
on occupational safety relevant to HIV transmission and provision of clear guidelines
in cases of accidental occupational exposure to HIV.
A National Health Care Waste Management Plan was developed and 5,000 copies were
distributed. Furthermore, 595 Staff from the public, private, NGO, military and security
health institutions were trained in HCWM within and outside Zambia, 9 incinerators were
procured and distributed to hospitals and 100 safety boxes for sharps were procured and
distributed to health facilities. ZANARA also supported the development and distribution
(5,000 copies each) of the minimum specifications for health care waste incineration and
Technical guidelines on sound management of health care waste. Twenty-five healthcare
providers were trained as trainers in HCWM, financing for a Master of Science in
Environmental Health for one MOH employee was also provided from the project. In
addition, lecture rooms and offices for the Environmental Health School at the University
of Zambia (School of Medicine) were constructed, furnished and equipped. By the




                                            59

closing date 51 bachelor degree students were enrolled and undergoing training in this
program.



Mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS in workplace activities.
A HIV and AIDS workplace policy was developed as well as a strategic plan for the
Medical Women Association of Zambia. A total of 30 MOH drivers in Eastern province
were sensitized on Basic Facts about HIV and AIDS, staff from the Medical Council of
Zambia and the Pharmaceutical Association of Zambia and their family members were
also sensitized on HIV and AIDS.

Provide support to other ministries in their HIV and AIDS related activities
Support was provided to the 2007 Zambia Demographic and Health Survey and 2007
antenatal sentinel surveillance conducted by Central Statistical Office (CSO) and the
Tropical Diseases Research Centre. RPR test kits, stationery, plasma freezers and drugs
for the treatment of syphilis were procured. Support for the data analysis process was also
provided.

Component 4 - Part (d) Program Administration

ZANARA supported the PAU for the day-to-day administration of project activities. This
included, monitoring of resources, processing of central procurement activities,
administering withdrawal and disbursement procedures, consolidation of financial
management aspects of project implementation, project reporting, and provision of
managerial and administrative support to the project implementing and coordinating
agencies.

The capacity of the PAU was built through a number of recruitments as well as the
provision of training to staff members i.e., 24 staff from the Project trained in Project
Management, 23 staff from line ministries trained in Procurement and Procurement of
Health Sector Goods, Financial Management and Budgeting-2 M&E-4, Team Building-1.

As indicated below, the PAU staff also attended and facilitated a number of learning
exchanges and workshops, 10 Project, LM and NAC staff participated in the study tour to
the MAP Program in Uganda, 6 Project and NAC staff participated in the study tour
exchange visit to the MAP Program in Tanzania, 30 Project staff attended the Learning
Exchange Activity (LEA) Conference for Southern African countries held in Livingstone,
Zambia, 5 project staff attended the International AIDS Conference African Regional
conferences in 2003, 2005, respectively, 6 Project, NAC and MOH staff attended the
World Conferences on AIDS in 2006 and 2008, respectively, 8 Project, NAC and MOH
Staff attended the Quality Assurance for World Bank Operations in Africa annual
workshops, 40 Project, NAC, LM and MOH Staff attended the World Bank annual
consultative meetings for MAP implementers organized by the AIDS Campaign Team
(ACT) Africa, 4 staff attended a Statistical Packages for social sciences (SPSS) course at
the University of Zambia (UNZA), 5 staff attended a Planning, monitoring and evaluation
course at UNZA.



                                          60

Partly thanks to all the capacity building that was funded by ZANARA, the PAU did an
excellent job in project planning, management and supervision.

The PAU successfully planned, operationalized and coordinated the project. They
developed five annual plans for all components of ZANARA that was consolidated into
single Project plan, coordinated 13 World Bank Missions, including the Project's mid-
term review and 4 Joint Annual Program Reviews for the National AIDS Council and the
mid-term review of the implementation of the 2006-2010 National AIDS Strategic Plan.
They also developed ZANARA Project Operational Manual for all components and
conducted training on the same. As far operationalization of the project was concerned,
the PAU developed funding modalities for the PATFs, DATFs and Line Ministries, an
internal control systems as well as a computerized MIS for all project components. A
total of 12 staff were recruited to the PAU and annual performance appraisals for 52
project staff were conducted.

Procurement and Financial Management were two other functions of the PAU. Financial
Management and Procurement Committee (FMPC) meetings (13 in total) were held to
approve annual work plans and review FMRs and audit reports. Fiduciary (Procurement
and Financial Management) training of 205 LMs, 30 NAC staff, over 3,200 individuals
from decentralized structures (DATFs) and sub-projects was also undertaken by the PAU.
The annual procurement plans developed by the PAU were approved by the World Bank
and all central procurements were done according to time plan. On Financial
Management, action plans were ahead of schedule, disbursements were timely and
withdrawal procedures were done according to established standards. The Financial
Management team produced 32 Financial Monitoring Reports, 4 Cash flow Projections
and 4 Resource Re-allocation documents. Overall, this resulted in the disbursement of the
historical grant of US $42 million five months ahead of schedule (September, 2007) and
consequently timely disbursement of exchange rate gains of US $8.6 million for a total
disbursement of US $50.6 million IDA resources. The PAU also facilitated 3 Annual
Internal Audits and 4 External Audits.

A number of staff members were trained in M&E: 30 Project Staff, 161 LMs staff, 27
Provincial Staff, 144 DATF members, and 3,000 subproject committee members. The
M&E plan and data collection tools were developed and implemented by the PAU. They
also conducted a mid-term Independent Assessments of the implementation of the
ZANARA Project.

In terms of dissemination, the PAU produced three case studies for documentation of best
practices in the implementing components and three DVD and video documentaries on
the CRAIDS component. They also collaborated with CPs engaged in HIV and AIDS
such as UNDP, DFID, Global Fund for TB, AIDS and Malaria, PEPFAR, UNAIDS
through programming and implementation.




                                          61

Key Performance Indicators                                           Origin    Baseline data  Best estimate at Mid  Target Value   Best estimate at           Data Source
                                                                                              Term Review (August                   ZANARA end
                                                                                                     2005)                          (August 2008)

IMPACT


        1    Reduced HIV prevalence rates among young people          PAD         4.6%                4.6%               na             4.7%             ZDHS (2002 & 2007)
             aged 15 - 19 years by 2008


        2    Reduced HIV prevalence among antenatal women             PAD         17.0%              11.6%              15%             8.7%          SSS ( 1998, 2004 & 2006)
             aged less than 20 years by 2008


        3    The national adult HIV seroprevalence begins to          PAD         15.6%              15.6%               na            14.3%             ZDHS (2002 & 2007)
             decline by 2008

        4    The HIV prevalence rates among young people aged         DGA         4.6%                4.6%               na             4.7%             ZDHS (2002 & 2007)
             15 to 19 years.

        5    The HIV prevalence among women attending                 DGA         17.0%              11.6%              15%             8.7%           SSS (1998, 2004 & 2006)
             antenatal care aged less than 20 years.

        6    The national HIV adult seroprevalence rate.              DGA         15.6%              15.6%               na            14.3%             ZDHS (2002 & 2007)

OUTCOMES


        1    PDO -Median age at first sex increased by one year      PAD LF       16.5                18.5              17.5            18.5               SBS (2003 & 2005)
             for both male and female by 200828.

        2    PDO-Percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who        PAD LF       59.4%              31.6%              45%            20.9%           SSS (1998, 2004 & 2006)
             are mothers or pregnant with their first child reduced
             from 59.4% to 45% by 2008

        3    PDO- Reported condom use at last sex with non-          PAD LF   30% males 17%            na          45% males  30%   50% for males        ZDHS (2002 & 2007)
             regular partner increased from 30% to 45% for males,                females                               females     37.4% for females
             and from 17% to 30% for females by 2008

        4    Primary school enrollment and completion rate           PAD text     2,433                na               10%        13312 (more than        ZANARA reports
             among orphans and vulnerable children will have                                                                           400%)29          June 2003-August 2008
             increased by 10% in beneficiary communities
             supported under part (a) of the project by 2008)


        5    PDO-Decrease the primary school non-enrollment          PAD LF       23%                 92%                na            102.4%            Educational Statistical
             rate among orphans & vulnerable children (OVC)                                                                                          ulletin (2002,2005 & 2007)
             from x% to x% by 2008 (will check with BESSIP).
             [indicator tracked as increase in the primary school
             enrollment rate among OVC through the annual


28Tracked in 15-24 age group
29Only enrollment tracked




                                                                                      62

Key Performance Indicators                                              Origin        Baseline data   Best estimate at Mid  Target Value   Best estimate at            Data Source
                                                                                                     Term Review (August                     ZANARA end
                                                                                                             2005)                           (August 2008)

             Educational Statistical Bulletin by MOE]




         6   Median age at first sex                                     DGA               16.5               18.5              17.5              18.5              SBS (2003 & 2005)



         7   Reported condom use at last sex with non-regular            DGA         30% males 17%             na          45% males  30%    50% for males        ZDHS (2002 & 2007)
             partner                                                                    females                                females     37.4% for females


         8   Proportion of pregnant women aged 15-24 years               DGA              7.5%                6.9%               na              2.7%           SSS (2002, 2004 & 2006)
             attending antenatal clinics who test positive for
             syphilis


         9   Primary school enrollment and completion rate               DGA               23%                92%                na             102.4%            Educational Statistical
             among orphans and vulnerable children (only                                                                                                      Bulletin (2002,2005 & 2007)
             enrollement rate reported)

        10   The number of research activities focusing on gender        DGA                0                   0                na                0                   NAC reports30
                                                                                                                                                                 December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                                                         2008

OUTPUT INDICATORS

Part (a) Community Response to HIV/AIDS epidemic improved


         1   350 community initiatives funded by 2008                  PAD LF               0                  889               350       1,263 (1,080- IDA,        ZANARA reports
                                                                                                                                              183- DFID)         June 2003-August 2008

         2   Availability of counseling and testing services           PAD LF               0                  10                na        42 (29- IDA, 13-          ZANARA reports
             increased by 2008                                                                                                                  DFID)            June 2003-August 2008

         3   Number of peer educators, trainer of trainers             PAD LF               0                2,538               na       15,619 (14,992 -IDA,       ZANARA reports
             increased                                                                                                                        627-DFID)          June 2003-August 2008

         4   Increased number of districts with functioning HIV        PAD LF               0                  39                25               72                 ZANARA reports
             support groups to 25 by 2008                                                                                                                        June 2003-August 2008

         5   10% increase in orphans and vulnerable children           PAD LF               na                6061              10%            49,63131              ZANARA reports
             attending school before and after projects in                                                                                                       June 2003-August 2008
             beneficiary communities by 2008


30NAC facilitated 15 research activities focusing on gender supported by other development partners
31Number of OVCs supported to attend school under CRAIDS




                                                                                              63

Key Performance Indicators                                           Origin  Baseline data  Best estimate at Mid    Target Value       Best estimate at           Data Source
                                                                                            Term Review (August                         ZANARA end
                                                                                                    2005)                               (August 2008)

         6   30 functioning district HIV/AIDS task forces            PAD LF        0                 72                  30                   72               ZANARA reports
             (DATFs) established for sensitizing, appraising and                                                                                             June 2003-August 2008
             coordinating HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities
             by 2008

         7   The number of community initiatives that specifically    DGA          0                 11                  na                   91               ZANARA reports
             address gender issues.                                                                                                                          June 2003-August 2008

         8   The number and percentage of districts with              DGA          0             39 [54.2%]              25               72 [100%]            ZANARA reports
             functioning HIV support Groups.                                                                                                                 June 2003-August 2008

         9   The percentage of submitted proposals for                DGA          0        21.5% [890 funded over       na          21.4% [1,080 funded       ZANARA reports
             community-based activities that are funded under the                              4,186 proposals                       over 5,054 proposals    June 2003-August 2008
             Project.                                                                            submitted]                          submitted by 2005]

Part (b) NAC and Secretariat strengthened

         1   Technical and operational guidelines produced and       PAD LF        2                 7                   na                   34               ZANARA reports
             disseminated by all Technical Working Groups every                                                                                              June 2003-August 2008
             three years until 2008

         2   Two research studies on HIV/AIDS prevention and         PAD LF        0                 0                    8                    1                 NAC reports32
             care supported annually until 2008                                                                                                              December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                                                   2008

         3    Membership of the Business Coalition against           PAD LF       18                 50                  36                   80                  NAC reports
             HIV/AIDS increased from 18 to 36 by 2008                                                                                                        December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                                                   2008

         4   An HIV/AIDS situational assessment and report on        PAD LF        0                 2                   na            5 (4 JPAR and 1           NAC reports33
             progress against the strategic framework produced                                                                               MTR)            December 2002-August
             annually until 2008                                                                                                                                   2008

         5   An HIV/AIDS newsletter produced to share and            PAD LF        0                 5                2 annually     13 editions in English       NAC reports
             disseminate best practices and bibliography on                                                                          and local languages     December 2002-August
             HIV/AIDS in Zambia produced annually                                                                                                                  2008

         6    Management Information System established by           PAD LF        0        Manual MIS established MIS established    Computerized MIS            NAC reports
             Mid-Term                                                                          and operational      and operational      (NACMIS)            December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                     developed and being           2008
                                                                                                                                         piloted with
                                                                                                                                      ZANARA support

         7   Agreed operational framework for the DATFs              PAD LF        0        Operational framework        na               Functional              NAC reports
             produced by the end of first year of project                                        developed                               Operational         December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                          framework                2008


3270 operational research conducted with support from other partners
33Four Joint Annual Program Reviews and One midterm review of NASF




                                                                                    64

Key Performance Indicators                                             Origin   Baseline data  Best estimate at Mid  Target Value   Best estimate at       Data Source
                                                                                               Term Review (August                  ZANARA end
                                                                                                      2005)                         (August 2008)

Part (c) HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities mainstreamed in all Line Ministries

         1   All Line Ministries have systematically sensitized        PAD LF          4                41               15               41             ZANARA reports
             their staff about HIV/AIDS through specifically                                                                                          June 2003-August 200834
             planned workshops and activities by 2008.

         2   All line ministries have a funded budget line for         PAD LF          0                41               15               41          Government Yellow book
             HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities by 2008

         3    All public sector training institutions have integrated  PAD LF          0               60%               na              100%         UNGASS (2005 & 2007)
             qualitative HIV/AIDS aspects into their curriculum
             by 2008

         4   All line ministries have produced and disseminated        PAD LF          4                13               15               41             ZANARA reports
             IEC materials on HIV/AIDS prevention in the                                                                                              June 2003-August 2008
             workplace by 2008

         5   All line ministries have trained peer educators and       PAD LF          2                27               15               41             ZANARA reports
             counselors on HIV/AIDS prevention and care by                                                                                            June 2003-August 2008
             2008

         6   The number of Awareness activities conducted by          PAD text        na              1,300              na              4,028           ZANARA reports
             line ministries                                                                                                                          June 2003-August 2008

         7   The number of workshops on HIV/AIDS conducted              DGA            0                659              na              2,272           ZANARA reports
             by Line Ministries.                                                                                                                      June 2003-August 2008

         8    The percentage of ministries with budget line items       DGA          10%              100%               na              100%         Government Yellow book
             for HIV/AIDS related programs.

         9    The percentage of ministries' budgets for HIV/AIDS        DGA           na               45%               na              87%           MOFNP Expenditure
             activities that are actually funded.                                                                                                           reports




Part (d) Project Administration

         1   All central procurements are done according to time      PAD text        na                No               na               Yes            ZANARA reports
             plan                                                                                                                                     June 2003-August 2008

         2   Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are done          PAD text        na                No               na               Yes            ZANARA reports
             according to established standards                                                                                                       June 2003-August 2008

         3    Financial Management Action Plan implemented            PAD text        na                No               na               Yes            ZANARA reports
             according to schedule                                                                                                                    June 2003-August 2008

Other output indicators



34(23 Line Ministries & 18 GRZ Institutions)




                                                                                         65

Key Performance Indicators                                            Origin   Baseline data  Best estimate at Mid  Target Value   Best estimate at       Data Source
                                                                                              Term Review (August                  ZANARA end
                                                                                                     2005)                         (August 2008)

        1     The number Peer Educators trained                       DGA            0               4,568              na             20,240          ZANARA reports
                                                                                                                                                     June 2003-August 2008

        2     The number of peer educators and counselors in         PAD text        0               6,285              na             25,506          ZANARA reports
              HIV/AIDS prevention and care trained                                                                                                   June 2003-August 2008


        3      The number of VCT centers established                 ZANARA          0                 35               na               111           ZANARA reports
                                                                        -                                                                            June 2003-August 2008

        4      The number of People accessing VCT services and       ZANARA          0                 na               na            174,901          ZANARA reports
              tested                                                                                                                                 June 2003-August 2008

        5     The number of Youth Friendly Health Services           ZANARA          0                 96               na               160           ZANARA reports
              centers established                                                                                                                    June 2003-August 2008

        6     The number of Information Centers established          ZANARA          0                 na               na               245           ZANARA reports
                                                                                                                                                     June 2003-August 2008

        7     Number of Anti AIDS clubs established                  ZANARA          0                 na               na               147           ZANARA reports
                                                                                                                                                     June 2003-August 2008


INPUT INDICATORS

        1     The number of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and             DGA            0                 889              na              1,080          ZANARA reports
              impact mitigation community initiatives under Part A                                                                                   June 2003-August 2008
              of the Project.

        2     The number and percentage of districts with             DGA                          72 (100%)            na           72 (100%)          NAC Reports35
              functioning HIV counseling and testing centers.                                                                                        December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                                           2008

        3     The number of community initiatives that specifically   DGA            0                 11               na             59((91)         ZANARA reports
              address gender issues.                                                                                                                 June 2003-August 2008

        4      The percentage of public sector institutions (primary  DGA           na                60%               na              100%         UNGASS (2005 & 2007)
              schools, secondary schools, universities and technical
              training institutions) with HIV/AIDS prevention
              education integrated in their curricula.

        5      The number and percentage of districts with            DGA            0             39 [54.2%]           na           72 [100%]           NAC Reports
              functioning HIV support Groups.                                                                                                        December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                                           2008

        6     The number of technical guidelines produced and         DGA            2                  7               na               34           NAC/MOH Reports
              disseminated to care providers.                                                                                                        December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                                           2008




35Includes all components




                                                                                      66

    Key Performance Indicators                                              Origin         Baseline data           Best estimate at Mid  Target Value    Best estimate at       Data Source
                                                                                                                  Term Review (August                    ZANARA end
                                                                                                                          2005)                          (August 2008)

            7    The number of operational research studies on HIV           DGA                   0                         0                na                2              NAC Reports
                 prevention conducted and reported.                                                                                                                        December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                                                                200836

            8    The number and availability, in each district, of HIV     PAD text               na                        467               na              1120             NAC Reports
                 counseling and testing services by 2008                                                                                                                   December 2002-August
                                                                                                                                                                                200837

            9    The number of Trainers of Trainers trained by 2008        PAD text               na                        na                na              1,032          ZANARA reports
                                                                                                                                                                           June 2003-August 2008

    IDA 15 and AAP Monitoring Indicators

            1    Pharmaceuticals and Medical Equipment procured             IDA15/                                    $1,428,180.20      $9,482,278.93   $13,684,079.18      ZANARA reports
                 (US$)                                                        AAP                                                                                          June 2003-August 2008

            2    Number of patients treated for TB.                         IDA15/                                          100               0                500           ZANARA reports
                                                                              AAP                                                                                          June 2003-August 2008

            3    Number of Hospitals Rehabilitated.                         IDA15/                                          na                0                25            ZANARA reports
                                                                              AAP                                                                                          June 2003-August 2008

            4    Number of Health Centers Rehabilitated.                    IDA15/                                          59                0                121           ZANARA reports
                                                                              AAP                                                                                          June 2003-August 2008

            5    Number of Health Workers in-service training.              IDA15/                                          585              1000             3193,          ZANARA reports
                                                                              AAP                                                                                          June 2003-August 2008

            6    Contraceptives distributed - male condoms                  IDA15/                                       147,723              0            3,365,000         ZANARA reports
                                                                              AAP                                                                                          June 2003-August 2008



                                            Table 2 ANALYSIS OF DONOR FUNDING FOR HIV/AIDS IN ZAMBIA DURING THE PERIOD 2003-2008

                         2003              2004                 2005               2006                   2007                 2008       Total 2003-08   Less       Less  Total         2009
                                                                                                                                                            GF       USG

   UN                                                                                                                                        44,870,062       5%       18%   4%
                                                           22,285,523         9,585,571            7,757,383              5,241,585                                                  10,101,357

World Bank                                                                                                                                   50,494,483       6%       21%   5%
                    1,739,410          5,823,852           13,048,107         10,756,662           15,526,537             3,599,915

 JICA                                                                                                                                         9,198,125       1%        4%   1%                 -
                                                           2,233,803          1,294,510            4,496,115              1,173,697




    36NAC facilitated 70 operational research studies with support from other partners during the life of the project.
    37Number of VCT sites country wide by August 31, 2008




                                                                                                     67

                                  Table 2 ANALYSIS OF DONOR FUNDING FOR HIV/AIDS IN ZAMBIA DURING THE PERIOD 2003-2008

                      2003       2004          2005          2006          2007            2008        Total 2003-08   Less Less Total      2009
                                                                                                                       GF   USG

      USG                                                                                               618,760,614     72%       59%
                              57,900,000    65,737,079   130,088,605  149,022,150      216,012,780                                      262,331,994

    NORAD                                                                                                14,886,375     2%   6%    1%
                   3,824,748  2,528,667     2,298,750    3,034,350    2,096,460        1,103,400                                        1,103,400

  NETHERLAND                                                                                              6,081,715     1%   2%    1%
                                                         1,210,090    1,181,000        3,690,625                                        1,210,090

      DCI                                                                                                11,942,579     1%   5%    1%
                                                         4,029,300    4,162,000        3,751,279                                        3,751,279

 DANISH ZAMBIA                                                                                            2,500,000     0%   1%    0%
   HIV/AIDS                                                                            2,500,000                                        1,555,000

     SIDA                                                                                                11,799,999     1%   5%    1%
                                                         3,933,333    3,933,333        3,933,333                                        3,933,333

     DFID                                                                                                37,704,891     4%   15%   4%
                              5,612,912     6,268,856    7,578,471    8,965,633        9,279,019                                        2,503,549

      EU                                                                                                 12,100,899     1%   5%    1%
                                                         4,033,633    4,033,633        4,033,633                                        4,033,633

   INT NGOs                                                                                               5,590,800     1%   2%    1%
                                                         1,610,000    2,795,000        1,185,800                                        1,185,800

 UNITAIDS/CHAI                                                                                           18,723,498     2%   8%    2%
                                                                      4,069,264        14,654,234                                       19,417,885

   GRZ-MOH                                                                                               16,905,545     2%   7%    2%
                                            3,629,997    4,212,235    4,572,593        4,490,720                                        14,490,720

   GRZ-LINE                                                                                                 905,424     0%   0%    0%
  MINISTRIES                                                          511,780          393,644                                          393,644

   SUBTOTAl                                                                                             862,465,009    100%
                   5,564,158  71,865,431    115,502,115  181,366,760  213,122,881      275,043,664                                      326,011,684

Subtotal less USG                                                                                       243,704,395         100%
  contribution     5,564,158  13,965,431    49,765,036   51,278,155   64,100,731       59,030,884

   GFATM R1                                                                                              81,859,517                8%
                   2,499,142  25,953,905    18,708,304   10,305,564   13,795,547       10,597,055                                       68,876,507

 GFATM R4                                                                                                97,700,670                9%
                                            13,059,349   6,938,900    5,515,611        72,186,810                                       68,161,704

 GFATM R8                                                                                                        -                 0%

GFATM TOTAL       2,499,142                                                                             179,560,187
                              25,953,905    31,767,653   17,244,464   19,311,158       82,783,865                                       137,038,211




                                                                       68

                                    Table 2 ANALYSIS OF DONOR FUNDING FOR HIV/AIDS IN ZAMBIA DURING THE PERIOD 2003-2008

                        2003       2004          2005          2006          2007            2008        Total 2003-08   Less Less Total      2009
                                                                                                                         GF   USG

 Total with GF      8,063,300                                                                              423,264,582
  less USG                      39,919,336    81,532,689   68,522,619   83,411,889       141,814,749

    TOTAL           8,063,300                                                                            1,042,025,196              100%
                                97,819,336    147,269,768  198,611,224  232,434,039      357,827,529                                      463,049,895



   % Bank                   31%          8%           11%           6%              7%             1%               1
contribution per
year without GF

   % Bank                   31%         42%           26%          21%            24%              6%
contribution per
 year without
 USG and GF

   % Bank                   22%         15%           16%          16%            19%              3%
contribution with
      GF




                                                                         69

                 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis



Not Applicable




                                70

       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes




(a) Task Team members

                                                                   Responsibility/
          Names                        Title              Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Fenwick M. Chitalu       Financial Management Specialis AFTFM
Cassandra De Souza       Operations Analyst              AFTHV
Phoebe M. Folger         Operations Analyst              SASHD
Serigne Omar Fye         Consultant                      AFTH1
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus    Senior Procurement Spec.        AFTPC
Wedex Ilunga             Procurement Spec.               AFTPC
Richard Matikanya        Consultant                      HDNGA
                                                         AFMZ
Helen Mbao-Chilupe       Senior Operations Officer
                                                           M
                                                         AFMZ
Maureen Kabasia Mwikisa Team Assistant
                                                           M
Mirey Ovadiya            Senior Operations Officer       AFTH2
Oscar Picazo             Senior Economist (Health)       AFTH1
                         Senior Monitoring & Evaluation
Rosalia Rodriguez-Garcia                                 HDNGA
                         Specialist
Musonda Rosemary         Senior Population Health and
                                                         AFTH1
Sunkutu                  Nutrition Specialist.
Helen Giorghis Taddese   Program Assistant               AFTH1
                         Monitoring & Evaluation
Juliana Victor-Ahuchogu                                  HDNGA
                         Specialist.
Monique Vledder          Senior Health Specialist        AFTH1
                                                         AFMZ
Neta Mulenga Walima      Program Assistant
                                                           M
Christopher D. Walker    Lead Health Specialist          AFTH1
Albertus Voetberg        Lead Health Specialist          AFTH1
Muhammad Pate            Senior Public Health Specialist AFTH1
Nina Schuler              Consultant                     TUDUR
Bwalya Mumba             Procurement Specialist,         AFTPC,
Humberto Albino Cossa    Senior Health Specialist        AFTH1
Mirja Sjoblom            Consultant                      AFTH1




                                      71

(b) Staff Time and Cost



                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle
                                                     USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)



Lending

  FY99                                                            0.09
  FY00                                                            0.00
  FY01                                 56                         0.00
  FY02                                 24                         0.00
  FY03                                 10                         0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00

                        Total:         90                      340.75
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                         203.85
  FY00                                                         153.40
  FY01                                                         160.70
  FY02                                                         120.53
  FY03                                   3                     176.21
  FY04                                 63                         0.00
  FY05                                 70                         0.00
  FY06                                 53                         0.00
  FY07                                 37                         0.00
  FY08                                 49                         0.00

                        Total:       275                       844.91




                                 72

                  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                               73

              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                   74

       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

a) Summary of Borrower's ICR: Ministry of Finance and National Planning

                                    Executive Summary

The Zambia National Response to HIV and AIDS Project has been a key intervention in
the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ)'s effort reduce the spread of HIV and
AIDS, mitigate the socio-economic impact of the disease and increase access to care and
support for people infected or affected by the HIV and AIDS epidemic in Zambia, as
stipulated in the national HIV and AIDS strategic plans from 2000 - 2010.

The Government has a high political commitment to addressing the HIV and AIDS
epidemic. As part of HIV and AIDS national response, the Government put in place a
number of national support structures such as a high level Cabinet Committee on HIV
and AIDS, which provides policy direction and regularly reports to Cabinet on HIV and
AIDS, the Zambia National HIV and AIDS/STI/TB Council (NAC) which was enacted
by the Parliament in December 2002 as a broad-based corporate body (Government,
private sector and civil society representation) to coordinate and support the development
of the multi-sectoral national response. NAC decentralized structures within the
provincial and district local government structures have been established i.e the
Provincial AIDS Task Forces (PATFs) and the District AIDS Task Forces (DATFs). The
major role of these decentralized structures is to coordinate, monitor and evaluate HIV
and AIDS activities at local level. Further, the Government approved the National
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB policy in 2005 and took a policy decision to provide Antiretroviral
Therapy (ART) free of charge to all in need of treatment. Subsequently, Government
incorporated HIV and AIDS in the Fifth National Development Plan 2006-2010 as a
cross-cutting issue.

During its implementation, the ZANARA project supported provision of grants to
community HIV and AIDS initiatives, institutional capacity development of the NAC,
mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS related activities in the public sector as well as the
strengthening the health delivery system.

During the five-year implementation period, the ZANARA project disbursed a total of
US$57.19 million to undertake the HIV prevention, care and support activities. This is
against the historic allocation of US$46 million (IDA-US$42 million, GRZ-US$4
million). The IDA grant was revalued to US$50.46 million due to exchange rate gains
and Government increased its allocation to US$4.24 million by August 31, 2008.
Subsequently, in 2005 DFID provided parallel financing of US$2.5million to the
community response to HIV and AIDS component through the STARZ program.

The ZANARA project's resources have been instrumental in supporting key thematic
areas of the national HIV and AIDS program. The project focused on a community
demand-driven concept that has given the project a unique identity of channeling
resources to household level in the remotest parts of all the 72 districts in Zambia.



                                           75

Furthermore, over 41 Line Ministries and other public sector institutions have received
funding to HIV and AIDS interventions that were conceptualized, initiated, implemented,
managed, monitored and accounted for by the recipients themselves.

The ZANARA project's comparative advantage and niche lies in the community
response to HIV and AIDS where a unique disbursement mechanism has been developed,
allowing communities to access resources directly to enable them to implement HIV and
AIDS-coping activities that are initiated, monitored and accounted for by the
communities themselves under the facilitation and supervision of the respective DATFs.
To facilitate this process, the ZANARA project procured 44 motor vehicles for the
DATFs and 10 mobile video vans for Zambia National Information Service (ZANIS) to
enhance coordination and dissemination of the HIV/AIDS district response. Although
1,263 subprojects have been supported countrywide over the 5-year project
implementation period, this is 25% of the total demand of 5,054 sub-projects received by
December 2005 when the project stopped receiving new applications due to inadequate
finances.

In the health sector, the project's resources have been complementary to other
interventions undertaken by key cooperating partners such as the PEPFAR and the
GFATM. Whilst the two programs concentrate on supplying first and second line ARVs
for the 120,000 patients currently on ART, the ZANARA project complimented these
efforts by providing over $12 million worth of laboratory equipment and reagents used to
diagnose and monitor patients on ART as well as treatment of STIs and other
opportunistic infections. Additional resources were provided to improve blood collection
and safety. The ZANARA project has been instrumental in fostering systems
development within the health sector to ensure quality delivery of services closer to the
community. This has been important given the increased disease burden caused by HIV
and AIDS throughout the country. To this effect, funds have been channeled directly to
50 districts to establish VCT services, PMTCT services and YFHCs and to train
psychosocial counselors and peer educators operating within the health rural health
centers. The capacity building contributed significantly to the over 1,000,000 people who
received counseling and testing, the 168,000 pregnant women who received ART for
PMTCT, the over 24,000 people treated for STI's and the 202,663 people who are on
HAART by September 2008. In recognition of the burden created by the increased health
care waste generated at different levels of the health system, the Project was catalytic in
developing a health care waste management plan and providing resources to implement
key activities under the plan.

Within Public sector response (23 Line Ministries and 18 government institutions), the
project supported mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS within the day-today mandates of
these institutions. HIV and AIDS policies have been developed and disseminated to guide
employees on the issues of equal opportunities and non-discrimination practices within
the workplace as well as creating awareness of the support available internally to those
that are infected or affected, trained peer educators and psychosocial counselors to
internalize and sustain dialogue within the institutions through weekly behavioral change




                                          76

communication sessions augmented by mobile VCT services culminating into referrals to
ART and PMTCT services from the public health facilities.

When the Project commenced in 2003, there was a lot of stigma and discrimination
within the workplace such that AIDS and other issues of sexuality were not discussed
openly among employees. Further, HIV and AIDS was taken as a function of the
Ministry of Health, with little understanding that each sector had a specific role to
mainstream HIV and AIDS in its mandate and outreach to the clientele. Currently, there
are a number of civil servants who have come out openly to discuss their HIV status and
have been instrumental in encouraging others to seek help. Support groups for people
living with HIV have been formed in many institutions such as Ministries of Education,
Home Affairs, Energy and Water development, Community Development and Social
Services, CSO, and others. VCT centers have been established in Ministries of Defense,
Home Affairs (Police), National Assembly and Office of the President, while for the rest
of the institutions, HIV and AIDS information centers have been established. Key
ministries such as Education, Information and Broadcasting, Sport, Youth and Child
Development, Home Affairs, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, etc, have
incorporated HIV and AIDS programs specifically targeting the pupils, the youth, labor
laws, child protection and gender based violence, etc that make vulnerable groups under
their mandate more susceptible to HIV infection.

With the type of support provided in the two implementing components of the Project as
described above, the overall national response to HIV/AIDS has been strengthened by the
creation of linkages and referrals between the community home-based care and
prevention programs, the workplace awareness and behavioral change campaigns to the
specialized health care delivery system provided to Ministry of Health. All this is
coordinated and monitored by the NAC enabled by the capacity building support
provided by the project. The idea of creating a national body to coordinate, monitor and
evaluate the national program was a pre-condition to the disbursement of the World Bank
support. Through project support, technical guidelines have been developed for various
responses, a communication strategy has been developed and a new strategic plan (2006
­ 2010) and M&E framework have been developed. Annually, a Joint Program Review
of implementation progress on the National strategic plan has been held annually for five
years.

In summary, the ZANARA project successfully provided HIV and AIDS prevention, care
and support and mitigation services to the people infected or affected by the HIV and
AIDS epidemic in Zambia to compliment the Government of the Republic of Zambia's
effort to expand services to the vulnerable populations, given its limited resources. These
efforts not only assisted in reducing the risk of HIV transmission within communities and
at the workplace but through community based programs and health service delivery, also
provided critical care support services to the people infected or affected throughout the
country. These efforts also contributed to strengthening the capacity of local
organizations (CBOs, FBOs and NGOs), the National AIDS Council and the government
and helped to enhance long-term sustainability of project activities and impact. In the
same vein, the country's HIV prevalence rate in the adult population aged 15 to 49 years



                                            77

has decreased from 15.6 percent in 2002 to 14.3 percent in 2007; the HIV prevalence rate
among antenatal women aged less than 20 years reduced from 17 percent to 8.7 percent
by 2008, the median age at first sex encounter among both males and females increased
by two years and the percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who are mothers or
pregnant with their first child reduced from 59.4 percent to 45 percent by 2008.

                  Project Activities and Achievements by Components

Community Response to HIV and AIDS
The project through CRAIDS component has funded 1,080 sub-projects using IDA. This
is more than 300% of the original target of 350 sub-projects. An additional 183 sub-
projects have been funded under the DFID STARZ support. Through these sub-projects
several approaches were engaged to raise community awareness and conduct
sensitization on HIV and AIDS prevention, care and support.

CRAIDS facilitated the training of about 12,811 peer educators who have reached over
634,413 people. Over 2,775 community members have been trained in community
counseling and about 129,131 have been reached. An additional 865,172 community
members have been reached through the 965 drama performers trained. About 765,757
youths have been reached with various HIV/AIDS preventive strategies using the 3,265
youth peer educators, counselors and behavior change agents trained. 106,897 IEC
materials were also disseminated through the various change agents and the 102 Anti-
AIDS clubs, 20 information centers and 67 youth friendly health centers established for
in and out-of-school youth. 2, 500 brochures were developed and printed into Braille and
sign language. Information was also disseminated using Availability and accessibility of
VCT services to the communities are crucial as they are the link to PMTCT, ART, HBC
and positive living among others. To augment HIV prevention activities in the
community, the project supported rehabilitation or refurbishment of 42 VCT centers as
well as community mobilization for VCT. The VCT centers served 49,651 people.

Under care and support intervention, about 6,373 care givers have been trained, 4,446
HBC kits and 1,827 bicycles were procured and these have served over 46,030 HBC
clients. About 110 support groups have been formed with CRAIDS facilitation and more
than 10,804 PLWHA are receiving various kind of support, including IGA support and
training in advocacy and positive living. With regard to support to orphans and
vulnerable children, a cumulative total of 44,631 OVC have been supported to attend
school, 12,450 through the 19 community schools established and a total 21,855OVCs
received nutritional supplements. Other vulnerable and high risk groups reached include
commercial sex workers, mobile workforce, fishermen, prisoners, widows, women and
girls.

For sustainability of HIV and AIDS community activities, the project facilitated the
linking of funded community sub-projects to existing government, faith based and private
institutions for continued provision of technical advice and supply of key health
commodities and IEC materials. Funds were also provided for engagement in IGA
activities, with income generated used to scale up on-going HIV and AIDS activities. A



                                           78

total of 571 sub-projects were supported with IGAs component alongside their respective
core business. In order to enhance management of these IGAs, CRAIDS facilitated and
supported the training the community members in business management/entrepreneurship
skills. A total of 3,024 community members have been trained in business management.
Apart from training in business management, about 1,631 community members have
been trained in technical skills related to their specific IGAs such as agricultural
production, tie and dye, tailoring, carpentry.

Support to National AIDS Council Component
The project has helped strengthen the National AIDS Council through supporting
decentralized planning and monitoring and evaluation processes; development and
revision of 23 national guidelines and institutional development by way of staff training
and provision of office furniture, IT equipment and motor vehicles. 44 of the motor
vehicles were procured to assist the DATFs coordinate and monitor community HIV and
AIDS activities in hard-to-reach areas. The establishment of Technical Working
Groups/Theme Groups and the coordination framework for district HIV and AIDS
activities enabled the National AIDS Council to enhance its coordination role. Once the
initial capacity was built, the NAC has been able to leverage additional resources from
other cooperating partners through the JFA.

All 72 DATFs have developed district HIV strategic plans with involvement of all
stakeholders. The strategic plans act as agreed operational framework to guide and
coordinate all HIV/AIDS activity implementation in the district. The strategic plans have
improved coordination of decentralized HIV and AIDS activities and have improved the
effective use of scarce resources in the districts. Using this bottom-up planning process,
the NAC has over the period produced two national HIV and IDS strategic plans (2002 ­
2005 and 2006-2010, respectively) and two corresponding M&E frameworks and
translated them into Braille. The NAC Activity Reporting Forms (NARFs) were
developed and operationalized up to district levels and the districts are now reporting on
programmatic data to the national level. The project supported the establishment of a
computerized NAC Management Information System.

The project has supported NAC to produce and disseminate 13 editions of HIV and AIDS
newsletters in English and local languages to share and disseminate information updates,
best practices and bibliography on HIV and AIDS in Zambia. In addition, 23 editions of
Fact Sheets relaying assorted HIV and AIDS messages/updates have been printed and
disseminated, and together reached about 3 million people. The IEC materials were
developed within the framework of the Communication Strategy which was developed
through the Project's support.

With strong support from the project, the JAPR has been institutionalized and undertaken
annually from 2004 to 2007 and has become an integral part of NAC annual activities.
JAPR is an annual HIV and AIDS situational assessment undertaken to report on
progress against the implementation of the national strategic framework. So far, four (4)
JAPRs and one MTR have been conducted and results disseminated since 2004. JAPR
recommendations have been taken into account in the preparations of annual work plans



                                           79

and budgets by NAC and other implementing agencies. In terms of research, the project
supported a clinical trial on herbal and traditional remedies for HIV and AIDS, an
epidemiological synthesis and a national AIDS spending assessment.

Support to Line Ministries Sub-component C1
All the 23 Line Ministries and 18 Government Departments have been supported to
mainstream HIV and AIDS prevention and mitigation activities using the mainstreaming
guidelines developed by NAC. The 41 public sector institutions have been able to appoint
HIV and AIDS focal persons, form functional HIV and AIDS committees, develop and
disseminate HIV and AIDS workplace policies, translate them into action plan and
implement activities within the HIV and AIDS work plans in a systematic manner. All
the Line Ministries and Government Departments have a funded budget line for HIV and
AIDS prevention and care activities. Over 831,125 IEC materials on basic facts on HIV
and AIDS key behavioral change messages were distributed through peers and the 123
information centers established in the public sector. About 2,259 employees were trained
as peer educators and these have reached to over 137,469 fellow employees, their family
members and clients within the LM mandate. Furthermore, about 1,203 employees were
also trained as psychosocial counselors and over 80,294 employees were reached through
counseling. 600 teachers were trained as guidance counselors and these reached 263,000
pupils.

A total of 5 VCT have been refurbished and established and over 7,659 people have
accessed the VCT services. An additional 9,457 members of staff were reached through
the 313 mobile VCT services provided as part of the institutionalized weekly activities
conducted by trained peer educators and counselors. In some LMs, Ministers, Permanent
Secretaries and Directors led by example in HIV testing. On care and support, as a result
of reduced stigma at the workplace, 307 employees were open about heir HIV status
while 1,156 declared their status within support groups with over 9,457 employees
reached by the 429 staff trained as care givers. With guidance on mainstreaming of HIV
and AIDS provided by the NAC, ministries such as Home Affairs, Defense, Sport Youth
and Child Development, Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Local
Government      and   Housing,    Communications     and  Transport,  Information    and
Broadcasting, Labor and Social Security, Ministry of Mines and Mineral Development,
etc., reached out to their clients by implementing HIV and AIDS prevention, care and
support activities targeting schools, high risk mobile workforce in the transport sector,
revision of curriculum, information and resource centers in colleges, support group
formation and VCT/ART provision in police camps and barracks, involvement of
traditional leaders and mayors and councilors, mobile vans for information
documentation and dissemination and dissemination of IEC materials with targeted
information through established information centers.

Support to MOH Sub-component C2
The ZANARA project support strengthened the MOH's laboratory capacity through
procurement of valuable laboratory diagnostic equipment and reagents valued at US
$4,620,263.42 and drugs for STIs and other OIs and test kits worth US$1,568,360.74,
staff training and establishment of service centers. In addition, 50 Districts Health



                                          80

Management Teams (DHMTs) were supported to establish 64 VCT centers, 8 ART
centers and 73 YHFS as well as train 424 PMTCT providers, 245 Psychosocial
Counselors, 132 STI providers and 97 ART providers from among selected health
professionals. Further, 231 lay counselors and 1,539 peer educators selected from the
community were trained. These facilities were able to serve 6,984 youths, 108,104 VCT
clients, 44,253 through PMTCT and 24,000 STI clients.

The project also supported the institutional development of the Zambia National Blood
Transfusion Services (ZNBTS) to improve blood safety and ensure quality control of the
national blood transfusion system at a cost of US$1, 895,134.42. A total of 93 blood bank
fridges were purchased and distributed to districts, mission, and general and referral
hospitals throughout Zambia. In addition, the project procured 70,000 blood bags, 87,500
HIV test kits, 87,500 Hepatitis B test kits, 87,500 Hepatitis C test kits, 70,000 Syphilis
test kits, 90 blood transportation cool boxes, 90 bench top centrifuges, 90 water baths, 2
refrigerated centrifuges, 2 ELISA micro-plate readers, 2 ELISA micro-plate washers and
2 automated immune assays for blood screening. From 2004, a total of 116,290 blood
units were collected out of which 97,784 transfusable units were produced for the period
2005 to 2007. In addition, the ZNBTS is now able to provide different blood components
in addition to whole blood, when required.

Ministry of Health was supported to promote occupational safety for workers through
staff training and development of guidelines for health care waste management, including
minimum specifications for incineration. Nine incinerators and 100 sharp boxes which
were procured by the project and distributed to major hospitals improved the health care
waste management in both the public sector and private institutions that used the
incinerators at a fee. Further. 25 trainers of trainers and 595 health staff were trained in
HCWM, an Environmental Health Unit was established at the University of Zambia, and
curriculum in selected training institutions were revised to include HCWM.

The Program Administration Unit
Planning and Coordination The PAU developed the project's operational systems and
manuals, within the overall framework of the national HIV and AIDS response and the
World Bank guidelines. The unit ably coordinated the planning function, implementation
of project activities and monitored progress regularly using the M&E system developed
for the project. Periodic reports were prepared in accordance with reporting requirements.
Central procurements worth millions of dollars were undertaken in line with the approved
procurement plans. Mid-term independent reviews and documentation of best practices
were undertaken successfully.

The Financial Management and Procurement Committee (FMPC) was established by the
Ministry of Finance and National Planning (MFNP) act as a project steering committee.
In this vein, the FMPC provided policy guidance and monitored the implementation of
the project through regular review of periodic reports, mission aide-memoires and audit
reports. The FMPC held 13 review meetings since 2004. PAU provided secretariat
services to the FMPC.




                                           81

Capacity Building: In the quest to build capacity among institutions that ZANARA
supported, PAU facilitated a number of fiduciary trainings. About 4 fiduciary training
workshops were conducted for LMs including MOH in order to orient the members of the
HIV and AIDS committee, especially the FPPs and UNVs. The project undertook
fiduciary training at national level under CRAIDS component after noting substantial
fiduciary knowledge gaps from project field visits, internal and external audit reports. A
total of 1,734 people were trained and these include community members selected from
sub-projects as well as PATF and DATF. A substantial improvement in fiduciary
management of sub-projects was noted after this training. This is evidenced by the 2006
audit report. Thereafter, fiduciary training was made part and parcel of sub-project
launch/orientation workshops so that the sub-projects' committee members are made
aware of the fiduciary implications before the funds are released.

Project Monitoring and Evaluation: According to the project design, M&E
implementation was to be supported by NAC. However, the inadequate staffing levels at
NAC created a vacuum. Therefore, the project took some time to operationalize the M&E
arrangement. Despite the creation of an M&E position within the PAU, very good
progress was made in M&E. Simplified reporting formats and the MIS were developed
and introduced for all the project components. The M&E capacity building was
conducted for the stakeholders and this, augmented by periodic data audits, resulted in
significant improvement in data collection, the information flow, and the timeliness and
completeness of reporting by most implementers. This enabled quality quarterly reports
to be produced on time.

World Bank Portfolio Mission Supervisory Visits: To support the implementation of the
project, about 12 World Bank portfolio mission supervisory visits have been conducted
from 2003. The main objective of these supervisory was to review progress made as well
as the provision of advice and direction on implementation challenges faced by the
project components. The Mid-Term review held in July 2005 was one of the important
supervisory visits. As an outcome, these visits have culminated in the development of the
Aide Memoirs that set the roadmap for implementation of recommended actions and
activities. Implementation bottlenecks were hence addressed in a timely manner.

Management and Staffing: ZANARA management and staffing included 7 professional
staff in programs, finance, procurement and M&E and three support staff under the
Program Administrative Unit (PAU). The project also had 39 staff grouped under
CRAIDS component based at the central level and 9 regional offices to implement
CRAIDS activities. The CRAIDS component was initially administered by the Zambia
Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF), which was already working with communities, to
benefit from its existing financial management and reporting systems.

During the course of implementation, the project supported short-term staff training in
program planning, project management, procurement of goods and services, financial
management, monitoring and evaluation and HIV and AIDS technical areas.

                                ZANARA Project Results



                                          82

Project Outputs
Some of the key program outputs achieved by the project from 2003 to 2008 with respect
to the performance indicators stipulated in both the Logical Framework (PAD) and the
DGA are listed below:
·   1,080 community initiatives (sub-projects) on HIV and AIDS have been funded
    across the country by 2008 against a target of 350 at project design. The indicator has
    been achieved by over 300%.
·   About 25% percent of the submitted proposals for HIV and AIDS community-based
    activities were approved and funded under the project, i.e., 1,263 funded sub-projects
    over 5,054 proposals submitted. At mid-term, percentage was 21.5% (889 funded
    over 4,186 proposals submitted). This is an indication that there was a huge response
    from the communities for support.
·   111 VCT centers have been established with project support to increase the
    availability of counseling and testing services to the general public. 64 were
    established under the MOH, 42 under CRAIDS and 5 under the LMs component.
    Over 80,074 people have accessed the services from these VCT centers. This is a
    valuable contribution (about 10%) to the 1,028 functional VCT centers spread across
    all the 72 districts of Zambia as of December 2007.
·   About 15,619 peer educators and trainers of trainers have been trained. These include
    2,259 employees trained in LMs, 9,262 community members trained under CRAIDS
    and 1,539 community members/health workers trained under MOH. Over 537,916
    people have been reached by the trained cadres.
·   Districts were supported to enable them facilitate the functioning of HIV support
    groups in their areas of jurisdiction. About 39 districts were supported and had
    functioning HIV support groups against the set target of 25 at project design by mid-
    term. This increased to 72 districts by August, 2008. The NZP+ has opened district
    chapters in all the 72 districts.
·   All the 72 District HIV and AIDS Task Forces (DATFs) were supported by the
    project to enable them sensitize, appraise, monitor and coordinate HIV and AIDS
    prevention and care activities in their respective districts. The target at project start
    was to support 30 DATFs (PAD and DGA indicator). In addition, the project through
    NAC procured 44 four wheel drive vehicle valued at US$ 940,610 for DATFs to
    facilitate coverage of hard-to-reach communities. A networking system to enhance
    communication with NAC was also installed for the DATFs with project support.
·   Over 34 technical and operational guidelines have been and disseminated by the
    Technical Working Groups/Theme Groups under NAC with project support to guide
    practitioners in various fields and ensure quality assurance. For example, the VCT,
    Treatment and Care, Workplace mainstreaming policy, M&E, Communication
    Strategy technical guidelines were produced and disseminated (PAD and DGA
    indicator).
·   Two operational research studies; one on clinical trials on herbal and traditional
    remedies for HIV and AIDS and the national AIDS spending assessment (NASA)
    have been supported.
·   The membership of the Business Coalition against HIV and AIDS has increased from
    18 at project effectiveness to 50 at mid-term and 80 by 2008. The set target was to
    increase the membership from 18 to 36 at the end of 2007. This is an indication that



                                           83

  more and more public-private companies are incorporating HIV and AIDS workplace
  programs in their operations for the mutual benefit of both the employers and
  employees.
· With strong support from the project, the JAPR has been undertaken annually from
  2004 2007 and has become an integral part of NAC annual activities. They
  culminated into an MTR undertaken in 2008 to review implementation progress for
  the national HIV and AIDS strategic framework 2006 ­ 2010.
· The project has supported NAC to print and disseminate 13 editions of HIV/AIDS
  newsletters produced in English and local languages to share and disseminate best
  practices and bibliography on HIV and AIDS in Zambia. On average 3 editions were
  printed annually (10,000 copies per edition). In addition, 23 editions Fact Sheets have
  also been printed and disseminated.
· The NAC Management Information System (MIS) has been established since 2005.
  The MIS was manual and paper based and comprised mainly of the NAC Activity
  Reporting Forms (NARFs). The NARFs have been developed and operationalized up
  to district level with project support (including GAMET). All the districts are now
  reporting on programmatic data to the national level. The project has also fully
  funded the development of a comprehensive computerized database system
  (NACMIS) to improve on data retrieval, analysis and reporting. NACMIS has been
  computerized. The private sector workplace directorate, IEC materials, civil society
  fund sources directory and performance monitoring modules have been integrated
  into NACMIS.
· All 72 DATFs have developed district strategic plans by 2005 with involvement of all
  stakeholders. The strategic plans act as agreed operational framework to guide and
  coordinate all HIV and AIDS activity implementation in the district. The strategic
  plans have minimized duplication of activities and have improved the effective use of
  scare resources in the districts. ZANARA supported NAC to build capacity of DATFs
  to develop their strategic plans. (PAD indicator) and incorporate them into the
  national HIV and AIDS framework, 2006-2010.
· All the 41 Line Ministries and Government Departments have been supported to
  mainstream HIV and AIDS prevention and mitigation activities. The 41 Line
  Ministries and Government Departments have appointed HIV and AIDS focal
  persons, formed functional HIV and AIDS committees and implemented HIV and
  AIDS work plans. All the Line Ministries and Government Departments have
  developed workplace HIV and AIDS policies (PAD indicator).
· All the 87 percent of the Line Ministries and Government Departments have a funded
  budget line for HIV and AIDS prevention and care activities and this is reflected
  every year in the Government yellow book. This increased from 45% at mid-term.
  This has ensured the sustainability of the implementation of the HIV and AIDS
  activities although in most case the amount allocated is little (PAD and DGA
  indicator).
· Over 2,272 workshops and 4,028 awareness activities on HIV and AIDS have been
  conducted by Line Ministries to sensitize the employees on basic facts about HIV and
  AIDS and available prevention strategies as well as care and support interventions
  through lunch hour sessions, mobile VCT, education sport, World AIDS day
  commemoration, etc., with ZANARA support (DGA indicator).



                                        84

·  All the 41 Line Ministries and Government Departments produced and disseminated
   over 864,316 IEC materials on HIV and AIDS prevention in the workplace. These
   IEC    materials    have    been    disseminated    during  sensitization    workshops,
   commemoration of World AIDS Day, Behavioral Change/Lunch Hour meetings,
   Workplace HIV and AIDS policy launches and so on (PAD indicator).
·  All (100%) of the public sector training institutions have integrated qualitative HIV
   and AIDS aspects into their curriculum by 2007 in order to sensitize the students and
   teachers on the dangers of the HIV and AIDS epidemic. The mid-term percentage
   was 60. This indicator is also tracked by UNGASS. (PAD and DGA indicator).
·  The project support contributed to enhancement of the capacity of the national blood
   transfusion service, leading to an increase to the number of units of blood collected,
   tested and stored from 8,000 units per quarter to 20,000 units per quarter. Advance
   purchases of reagents and test kits minimized stock outs of reagents and consumables.
   The intervention improved the operations of the ZNBTS and strengthened the
   national blood safety and cold chain system.
·  18 provincial laboratory technologists were trained as trainers in quality assurance; 72
   district laboratory technicians were trained in quality assurance; 33 nurses were
   trained in blood donor care; and 20 provincial staff were trained in information
   management.
Project Outcomes
The ZANARA outcome indicators that were selected at project design are behavior
change indicators. These include the:
   (a) Median age at first sex encounter increased 20-49 year old. The age at first sexual
       encounter among people (20-49 year old) has increased from the average of 17.5
       years to 18.5 (a year later) for both male and female.
   (b) The age at first sexual encounter among young people (15-24 year old) has
       increased from the average of 16 years to a year later for both male and female.
       This implies that young people are now delaying to reach the age of risky sexual
       behavior. ZANARA through its components supported abstinence messages
       targeted at young people in particular as well as the general public. Over 767,000
       youth were reached through peer education, behaviour change facilitators, Anti-
       AIDS clubs, IEC materials, information centers, youth friendly health centers,
       resource centers, drama performances, etc. There is need to continue targeting
       young people for abstinence messages to ensure that this pattern is not reversed.
   (c) Percentage of teenagers aged 15-19 years who are mothers or pregnant with their
       first child This is a PAD indicator and at design it was targeted that percentage of
       teenagers aged 15-19 years who are mothers or pregnant with their first child
       should reduced from 59.4 percent to 45 percent by 2008. This has already been
       achieved as by 2005 (SBS 2005) it reduced to 31.6 percent due to HIV/AIDS
       prevention messages supported and complimented by ZANARA around the
       country.
   (d) Reported condom use among young people. Condom use during the most recent
       sexual act with a non regular sexual partner showed an increase between 1998 and
       2003. However, a decrease was recorded in 2005. Among males, it increased from
       28% (1998) to 39 percent (2000) and then to 40 percent (2003) but decreased to
       38 percent in 2005 (ZSBS, 2005). Among females it increased from 24 percent



                                           85

       (1998) to 33 percent (2000) 35 percent 2003) and reduced to 26 percent in 2005
       (ZSBS, 2005). One contributing factor would be the median age at first sex had
       increased and therefore the demand for condom may have reduced. ZANARA
       project through Line Ministries and CRAIDS components has significantly
       improved accessibility to condoms for employees in public sector and community
       members respectively. About 3,365,000 condoms have been distributed by
       ZANARA and about 718,345 people were reached.
  (e) Pregnant women aged 15-24 years attending antenatal clinics that test positive for
       Syphilis. The proportion of pregnant women aged 15-24 years attending antenatal
       clinics who test positive for syphilis is a DGA indicator with SSS as a data source.
       At baseline it was 7.5 percent (2004) and then it reduced to 6.9 percent in 2006.
       The recent 2007 SSS indicates even a bigger reduction margin to 2.7 percent
       (over 4 percent margin). This increase indicates that less number of women aged
       15-24 years are engaging in unsafe sexual practices as a result of sensitization
       activities supported by ZANARA and other partners.
  (f) Primary school enrolment and completion rate among orphans and vulnerable
       children. The enrolment of orphans as a percent of total pupil enrolment in basic
       schools increased from 11.1 percent of the total enrolment in 2002 to 20.1 percent
       in 2004. In 2005, the enrolment rate of orphans increased to 20.7 percent and
       remained the same even in 2006 (Fifth National Development Plan 2006 ­ 2010;
       2005 and 2006 Educational Statistical Bulletin). The Ministry of Education
       through the bursary scheme supported 54,137 in 2005 and 74,284 in 2006. In the
       same period, ZANARA through CRAIDS supported 6,061 OVC in 2005 and
       49,631 OVC by 2008, a percentage increase of over 400 percent in enrolment
       levels since project inception.

Project Impact Indicators
These included:
  (a) HIV prevalence rates among young people aged 15 to 19 years. According to
       2002 ZDHS, the HIV prevalence rate among young people aged 15 to 19 years
       was at 4.6 percent (baseline). The current prevalent rate as report by 2007 ZDHS
       preliminary report is 4.7 percent. This therefore means that the HIV prevalence
       among women aged 15-19 years has remained the same. This impact indicator is
       the best estimate closer to the real incidence rate. There might be need to target
       the young people with more behavioral changes interventions.
  (b) HIV prevalence among women attending antenatal care aged less than 20 years.
       The Sentinel Surveillance data for 2002 in 22 sites reported that HIV prevalence
       among women in the age group 15-19 years attending ANC was 12.6 percent
       (baseline). This decreased to 11.6 percent in the same 22 sites (2004 SSS). There
       is a further decrease to 8.7 percent according to the 2006/7 SSS.
  (c) The national HIV adult sero-prevalence rate. The national HIV adult (age 15 ­ 49)
       sero-prevalence rate stood at 15.6 percent in 2002 ZDHS. This indicator reduced
       to 14.3 percent in 2007 ZDHS.
  Generally, all the impact indicators for ZANARA have moved in the right direction
  except for the first one which has remained static.




                                           86

                                  Lessons Learnt

1. Government Line Ministries and Departments have successfully integrated HIV
   and AIDS programming into their work, even without previous HIV and AIDS
   programming experience. The project's technical support was beneficial for the
   organizational development of Line Ministries. ZANARA assisted the Line
   Ministries to integrate HIV and AIDS into their programming for the first time
   and built the capacity of staff at institutional and community level.
2. However, the multi-sectoral approach needs to be better focused on priority
   sectors with the largest potential to impact the epidemic, as stipulated in the PAD,
   on the basis of their comparative advantage. Mainstreaming should go beyond
   workplace interventions for staff to include interventions for clients that the
   sectors serve. Private/Public partnerships would be key in this regard in view of
   the broad client base and specialties needed in each sector.
3. Effective partnerships and strategic use of limited resources are critical to making
   an impact on the HIV and AIDS epidemic in a country as large as Zambia.
   Linking workplace mainstreaming with policy and advocacy work has led to
   wider adoption of innovative program approaches and has enabled LMs to
   leverage other critical resources to continue program interventions.
4. Peer educator and psychosocial counselor curricula should be standardized for
   quality assurance purposes to ensure consistent messages are relayed to target
   groups.
5. The CRAIDS component in line with its objective to support communities has
   managed to put the communities at the centre of HIV and AIDS response.
   Communities have proved that they can implement HIV and AIDS interventions
   and account for the resources. As a result of this other funding agencies are
   willing to support the communities.
6. CRAIDS technical support was very beneficial for the organizational
   development of implementing partners, including CBOs, FBOs and NGOs.
   Sustained technical assistance and support was critical in building the capacities
   of organizations and increasing their knowledge and skills in a variety of technical
   areas.
7. Linking sub-projects to other service providers has improved quality of support
   provided and complimented the support from the CRAIDS component to the
   benefit of target groups. Linkages are important for all activities including IGAs.
   Viable IGAs enhance sustainability of the funded interventions as the
   communities are able to continue even after the CRAIDS support ends.
8. Networking and collaboration with other stakeholders and the DATF has helped
   to avoid duplication of funding to the same activities and also provide
   opportunities for cost sharing. For example CRAIDS-funded sub-projects were
   encouraged to get condoms and IEC from other stakeholders and hence this
   activity was not funded by the component.
9. Training in Positive Living for PLWHAs has helped a lot of people to come out in
   the open and disclose their HIV status. This has led to an increase in the formation
   of support groups. This intervention has contributed to the formation of support
   groups in all the 72 districts of Zambia. Also Capacity building of care givers and



                                        87

        linking them to health institutions has improved access to treatment. HBC patients
        are encouraged to go for VCT and access treatment early.
    10. Involvement of the local leadership (including traditional leaders) enhances
        implementation of sub-projects as they provide guidance and are keen to ensure
        that the sub-projects in their areas do well. Frequent monitoring to the sub-
        projects improved quality as this provided regular checks and balances during
        implementation.

(b) Comments on Draft ICR by the Borrower

(i) Comments from Ministry of Finance and National Planning:
Government appreciates the interactive approach used by the World Bank team
throughout the project implementation period. The Government benefited from the
various analytical works undertaken for both the HIV and AIDS and Health sectors. The
composition of different areas of expertise during implementation support missions gave
useful insight in various areas of national development.

Community Response to HIV and AIDS:
The project has contributed effectively to enhancing the capacity of decentralized
structures in the country that have been supported through the provision of vehicles,
technical expertise in project cycle facilitation as well as other logistical support. The
Project became operational when most of the District HIV and AIDS Task Forces were
introduced but through `learning by doing' great strides were made to ensure timely
multi-sectoral response to the pandemic. Many rural and remote communities that are
usually left out due to limited coverage by Non Governmental Organizations were
reached out with interventions identified by the community members themselves. What
the communities have taught us is that ownership of the process is key to ensuring
accountability for results and to build a team of implementers for the process. These are
key lessons for rolling out the implementation of the decentralization policy.

The community demand-driven approach is a vital tool in responding to the challenge of
HIV/AIDS in Zambia. The model has demonstrated that communities can be successfully
mobilized to implement HIV and AIDS interventions and other development agenda once
they are placed in the driver's seat. Even as the model is marketed to other development
programs there are some lessons learnt that need to be taken into account: Since there
may be a tendency for communities to prioritize subprojects in certain areas such as OVC
and HBC and as such inadequately address other topics such as targeting high risk
groups, BCC and condom promotion, efforts should be made to: (i) provide communities
with adequate guidance on what works in HIV and AIDS (ii) encourage the integration of
various community-level HIV and AIDS interventions, (ii) provide simplified guidelines
and strengthen the link between communities and HIV and AIDS service providers.
These actions will certainly improve the effectiveness of the community response.

Most CRAIDS outcomes have had positive externalities. The Income Generation Activity
support provided to sustain the implementation of HIV and AIDS community subprojects
improved the livelihoods of these communities and could be termed as poverty reduction



                                            88

strategies that provided employment, markets, access to services, food security, etc., to
some vulnerable groups such as women, children and people living with HIV.

National AIDS Council
The ZANARA Project came at a time when Government was grappling with the realities
of a growing HIV and AIDS epidemic. The flexibility of its eligibility criteria and
disbursement mechanisms using the learning by doing approach proved useful for
initiating the multi-sectoral response to HIV and AIDS. The IDA resources were catalytic
to the capacity development and systems strengthening which was necessary to scale up
interventions and gain the track record required for leveraging additional resources from
other cooperating partners. Simply put, without IDA, there would have been no NAC to
talk about and HIV and AIDS would have remained a health issue.

The placement of the PAU under the Ministry of Finance and National Planning proved
effective. Even with a full staff establishment, NAC would have still required an
institution to manage the day-to-day operations for the project in order for the various
components to remain to remain focused. Since NAC does not have a mandate for
implementation of HIV and AIDS programs, the support from ZANARA Project helped
the two technical staff that were there in 2003 to concentrate on providing strategic
guidance and leadership in the development of systems for coordination and M&E at
national level and advocacy necessary for mobilization of the public and private sectors
towards implementation of the national HIV and AIDS strategic plan.

However, there is still need to put in place functional mechanisms for coordination,
alignment and harmonization of major funding streams for HIV and AIDS, given the
large number of players in the sector. While it is pleasing to note that there has been
focus on developing a Prevention strategy and identifying the drivers of the epidemic, we
expect to see a deliberate effort to target IEC/BCC preventive activities for the key
drivers in the general population and for high risk groups. We however feel that more
advocacy should be done for private sector involvement.

Ministry of Health
Priority interventions focused on systems development in response to the burden that
HIV and AIDS patients had exerted on the health sector. The laboratory system
development allowed procurement of state of the art equipment that continues to be used
extensively for other diseases and in a strong way mitigates the problems created by
scarcity of human resource. The flexibility of IDA resources facilitated utilization of the
funds in areas where there was an evident funding gap or need for immediate attention.

Initially, less priority was given to health care waste management, despite the risks
paused by inappropriate disposal and scavenging of health waste. Following the project's
intervention, an innovative and effective system of health care waste management was
prioritized and the country will henceforth benefit from the gained recognition of its
importance and the training of practitioners at the University of Zambia medical school.

Line Ministries



                                           89

The mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS programs in the public sector that is evident now
can be fully attributed to the ZANARA Project. However, efforts to internalize the
mainstreaming of HIV and AIDS were hampered by different implementation paces by
different ministries and lack of inter-ministerial coordination by a public service entity or
inter-ministerial committee of Permanent Secretaries. It is our desire that Government
Public Service Management Division can take up this role, together with the creation of
full time HIV and AIDS focal point persons in the public sector.

In order to improve the capture of resources used for HIV and AIDS in the public sector,
there has been a general recommendation that the MOFNP should, through the call
circular, re-emphasize the establishment of a compulsory budget line for public sector
HIV and AIDS program which should be a priority for all the Line Ministries. We believe
that once effected, this will increase the percentage of 100% for line ministries and other
statutory bodies that have funded budget lines for HIV and AIDS will be attained.

Program Administration Unit:
It is very encouraging to note that the ZANARA Project is among the few projects, if
any, under the World Bank portfolio for Zambia, which have been implemented
exceptionally well. The Project was implemented within the original time frame, save the
6-month extension which was necessitated by the availability of additional resources
from exchange rate gains. It was rated satisfactory throughout the implementation period
was never at risk or restructured and all the legal covenants were adhered to. Further, the
project was disbursing ahead of schedule, counterpart funds that matched the increased
IDA historic grant were released on a regular basis, it attracted parallel financing from
DFID and, over and above, was able to meet its development objectives. This extra-
ordinary performance has been recognized and provides useful lessons to guide
performance for future programs.

The success of ZANARA Project can be attributed to the highly qualified and committed
staffs that were also provided with short term training to enhance their performance. The
staffs were also instrumental in capacity building of district entities involved in
coordinating HIV and AIDS as well as beneficiaries of the grants. World Bank's
"learning by doing" approach also provided flexibility that enabled the staff to be
innovative during the implementation of the project.

We also wish to recognize the commitment of the World Bank team charged with the
overall responsibility of the ZANARA Project. The Government had useful interaction
with them, as the teams were made of diverse specialty areas which enabled them to
provide wholesome advice when required. The team evidently contributed to the success
of the ZANARA Project as it fostered a strong partnership with the Government
throughout the design and implementation periods.

Transparency and accountability: there was little evidence of corruption and governance
concerns which can be attributed to: the project's emphasize on accountability of budget
allocation and expenditures, e.g. budget allocations for the districts were made known to
all stakeholders, including MPs, district authorities and community members ­ through



                                           90

project launch, clear eligibility criteria, use of government auditors to audit all levels of
project implementation, including the community, fiduciary capacity building of
community subprojects, FBOs, NGOs and DATF members.

Financial Management: We have taken note of involvement of accounting and technical
staff from all implementing agencies in the planning and budgeting processes of the
project and the use of government financial procedures at all levels of project
implementation. This strengthened the financial management practices. At all levels,
including the district and community level, as evidenced by the annual audit reports. The
regular reporting and simplified book-keeping which was possible at community level,
puts even a larger expectation on government institutions to lead by example in
conforming to requirements of transparency in reporting the sources and uses of funds.

Procurement: It is re-assuring to note that this was undertaken within the IDA principles
of equity, transparency, cost-effectiveness and efficiency. Furthermore, a lot of capacity
was built involving existing government structures such as the Zambia National Tender
Board and provincial accounting units. It is our aspiration that the simplified fiduciary
guidelines for communities are incorporated into overall tender board guidelines and
financial management systems under the MOFNP as it has been proven that once
facilitated, communities are able to account for resources.

The Ministry of Health appreciates the capacity building undertaken in the procurement
of health sector goods, as well as reviews of the Ministry's procurement system. This
support went a long way in improving quantification and supply chain management
processes in the ministry.

In addition, the packaging of basic services/activities required for different HIV
interventions led to cost effectiveness of interventions both at community and line
ministry level.

Monitoring and Evaluation: We wish to re-emphasize the need to ensure that monitoring
and evaluation is given due attention at the beginning of a Project. An opportunity to
undertake a baseline survey to define the starting point of project activities was missed.
This, followed by impact assessments done at the conclusion of the project would have
given us a more systematic measure of the impact of the project on key sectors.

Conclusion:
Government agrees with the assessment and ratings provided in the ICR. Given the
detailed documentation of the lessons learned during the implementation of such a
successful project, Government endeavors to sustain the key mechanisms and strategies
used by the project implementation team within the PAU and at various levels of
Government. We are hopeful that the community demand-driven approach will be
adopted by other sectors to ensure that community is central to the overall development
agenda. The flexibility with which IDA resources were provided allowed the Government
to use the resources in line with its national HIV and AIDS priorities and in a manner that
embraced communities in the remotest parts of the country usually neglected by other



                                             91

programs. The success would not have been possible without the commitment of the
leadership in HIV and AIDS and the role played by the implementing ministry to ensure
that counterpart resources were available over and above the initial requirement in order
to keep up with the appreciated value of the historic IDA grant.

(ii) Comments from Director General -National AIDS Council

Let me register our deep appreciate for the support the World Bank gave to Zambia at the
time when many partners were not willing to engage in AIDS. We saw the massive
support to Zambia through ZANARA which provided life-saving resources in many areas
including creation of the apex institution to coordinate the national response (National
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB Council). The institutionalization and mainstreaming of AIDS in the
private and public sectors, decentralization of the response to the sub-national level
which was also linked to taking the response to the community and household levels.
Further, support to the Ministry of Health to mitigate the impact on HIV and AIDS
patients through prompt diagnosis and treatment.

As indicated in the meeting, the need for more resources is growing because Zambia is an
HYPER-ENDEMIC country with prevalence of 14.3 percent in the general population.
As you are aware the global philosophy is that AIDS is an exceptional public health
problem that requires extra-ordinary measures. It is this same principle that globally the
world created a separate institution UNAIDS and also mobilized additional resources. All
this recognizes that countries like Zambia that are at the epicenter of the epidemic require
support from outside to deal with this unprecedented human catastrophe. As you are
aware we have scaled up in all areas and we are poised to do even more. Under the
circumstance the National HIV/AIDS/STI/TB Council request the              World Bank to
consider providing technical support to the National response both at National and sub-
national levels. We need technical support to further strengthen external mainstreaming
and strengthen coordination among the sectors (public, civil society and private) at sub
national levels.

We know through our inter-action that it has been possible to provide about six million
dollars to the Kingdom of Lesotho to facilitate their capacity building. You favorable
consideration will be highly appreciated.

Best wishes
Dr B.U.Chirwa
Director General




                                          92

        Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(a) Comments of Co-financiers

(i) Department for International Development
     General comments
     1. Well written report and does communicate key elements of the program which
        very helpful for someone who has not been involved.
     2. An executive summary of key achievements and the results framework at the
        beginning would have been helpful
     3. To deal with the attribution bit, it would be helpful if said upfront that the project
        was designed to contribute and therefore report national progress not specific
        project achievements. While it is mentioned in some sections, it is not always
        clear. In some places there are very specific contributions e.g. no. of VCT centers
        established.
     4. A key for the rating would also be helpful to understand available 'grades'. I note
        for example CRAIDS is supposed to be the most successful but all components
        are rated 'satisfactory'

     Specifically (Assessment of outcomes)
     1. Results are quoted as at 2008 even when referring to e.g. DHS 2007 or sexual
        behavior survey of 2005. It should be made explicit otherwise it is confusing
        when one is looking for the source of data in 2008.
     2. #71. The numbers do not communicate the scale or intent; unless I have a sense of
        what the need was, it is difficult to measure how successful.
     3. The assessment of CRAIDS as successful is consistent with reports during the
        course of implementation. There is need though to explain how from the target of
        350 we funded 1,080 projects. While there was additional funding from the
        exchange rate gains, it raises the question of size of grants planned versus what
        was given or was the target too low. Related to this, only a quarter of grants
        funded indicates good demand generated but may also suggest that the project
        was in-ward looking. To what extent has for e.g. available GFATM through
        CHAZ and ZNAN been tapped? To what extent are the skills building helping
        communities look for funding beyond CRAIDS? CRAIDS model is hailed but as
        observed, need for cost-effectiveness analysis for us to push further.
     4. Education for OVCs is an important milestone; measuring enrolment needs to be
        complimented with information on progression. Somewhere there is reference to
        university education and poverty reduction but there is nowhere in the report
        where the linkage is made that a. the support extended to higher education and b.
        that there has been follow up (in 5 years of the project). The report rightly raises
        the question of sustainability, from IGAs may be?
     5. #94: M&E plan seems weak therefore there are no specific measures of progress
        under this component

(ii) Strengthening the AIDS Response Zambia (STARZ) Program ­ DFID supported
program



                                            93

In March 2005, the Strengthening the AIDS Response Zambia (STARZ) Program entered
into a Memorandum of Understanding with the CRAIDS Project to support disbursement
of GBP1,209,200.00 as accountable grants to civil society organizations (CSOs) over a
three-year period. This sum was part of a Civil Society Fund which was being managed
by the STARZ Program38 on behalf of the UK Government's Department for
International Development (DFID).

DFID's Civil Society Fund was intended to support civil society's contribution to
Zambia's national response to HIV and AIDS. The main intervention areas were
expected to include prevention, impact mitigation and promotion of human rights, whilst
observing principles of gender equity, increased outreach, stigma reduction and a poverty
focus.
Required outputs related to shared lesson learning, dissemination of best practice and
strengthened dialogue with government39.

Further to the 2004 Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, the STARZ Program was
committed to promoting harmonization and alignment. Consequently, in its management
of the Civil Society Fund, the STARZ Program Team sought to build partnerships with
other development partners. An assessment of the CRAIDS Project led the STARZ Team
to conclude that Project's grant making mechanism held the potential to meet all the
objectives of the Civil Society Fund. It was also apparent that, by working together, there
were opportunities for increased efficiencies and access to complementary technical
assistance inputs. Moreover, it was hoped that the partnership would pave the way for a
Joint Financing Agreement among bi-lateral donors to support longer-term channeling of
funds through the CRAIDS mechanism40.

It is notable that, from the outset, CRAIDS administered the DFID Civil Society Fund in
a fully transparent, accountable and efficient manner. Although, from time to time, there
were administrative delays, in general, disbursement targets were met. The STARZ
Program seconded a Program Officer and a Finance Assistant to CRAIDS. These
members of staff were well-supported by the CRAIDS team and were able to produce
timely and impressive financial, M&E and narrative reports. By March 2008, CRAIDS
had disbursed DFID funds to over 168 CSOs and had exceeded many of its output
targets. For example: 750 young people had been trained in life skills, with 530 youth
being trained as peer educators; 271 women and girls had been trained in undertaking
income generation activities as part of prevention programs, and over 180,000 condoms
had been distributed; 8,311 OVCs had received care and support and 220 volunteers had
been trained in providing them with care; 630 households with PLHAs had received
nutrition support and some 285 care-givers had been trained in home based care; 170
individuals had been trained in gender rights, and there had been 47 community
campaigns to support treatment literacy and awareness.

38The STARZ Program is managed by HLSP Ltd on behalf of an association of partners. HLSP Ltd is part of the Mott MacDonald
Group.
39DFID Program Memorandum 2004
40STARZ Program Inception Report 2004




                                                       94

The partnership between STARZ and CRAIDS has, then, been highly successful.
CRAIDS has demonstrated internal flexibility in accommodating a new donor and its
grant disbursement model has been widely acclaimed. Despite intensive advocacy efforts
by the STARZ Program Team, it appears key leaders, decision-makers and senior
managers have been unable to reach a timely consensus on the future of CRAIDS.
Although it has been suggested that CRAIDS could become a Sub-Recipient of the
Global Fund and some aspects of the CRAIDS model could be resurrected, loss of human
resources, institutional memory and experience means that much of the
CRAIDS operational effectiveness has already been lost.

It seems, then, that whilst the successes of the CRAIDS Project are to be applauded, there
are significant lessons to be learnt about leadership, program sustainability, responsible
exit strategies, recognizing and building on success. Regrettably, the enduring legacy of
the CRAIDS Project may be a tale of wasted opportunity.

(b) Comments from Other Partners/ Stakeholders

(i) UNAIDS
Thanks for sharing this important draft report on the performance of the ZANARA
project and the lessons learnt. The report is well written, properly structured and reader
friendly. Congratulations. This is a very important document that will provide strategic
information for future programming of the response.

We would like to make the following minor observations:

We know that there is an intention to have executive summary at some point but please it
is very important as a matter of emphasis.
One of the limitations we found is that the targets set at the beginning of the project were
very ambitious and also not specific to the project hence the risk of attribution of all the
success stories of the national response to the ZANARA project. Is it possible to
highlight this point from the beginning? The section on assessment of outcomes (section
3, key performance indicators, page 15-17) - the outcome indicators being reported are
probably attributable to the entire national response and not just the ZANARA project
(e.g. HIV prevalence rate, median age at first sex, etc.)

Is it possible also to lower the performance indicators to specific outputs rather than using
broad outcome indicators such as - Median age at first sex, teenage aged 15-19 and
condom use? Our assumption is that at the onset of the project, this may have been the
main source of funding for the National response hence the outcome indicators. There is
no mention of the progress made in covering beneficiary population such as IDU, LDTD,
construction, traders, fishermen, military and prison population. There must have been
certain challenges related to IDU etc but I may have missed it in the report.
Is it possible to include some qualitative evidence such as testimonies supporting the
success of the project inserted as boxes in the body of the report?
The rating of the performance of the specific sections needs to be quantified.



                                           95

(ii) Bwafwano Community Home Based Organization:
Bwafwano Community Home Based Organization is one of the projects funded under the
CRAIDS component of ZANARA. The name Bwafwano means helping one another and
that is what the care givers of Bwafwano have demonstrated over the years. Currently the
project is supporting 11, 900 OVC and 5,850 HBC clients. The project has 415 care
givers out of whom 115 are male and 300 are females. They have also provided important
links between communities and the health facilities. Some of the impacts of the
intervention include: a) Reduction in the number of cases of Sexually Transmitted
Infection, b) The number of people attending VCT in the area increased from average 50
clients per month in 2005 to 200 clients per month in 2007, and c) Improved treatment
and adherence rate among the clients. Mrs Chola, the Executive Director of Bwafwano,
noted that the CRAIDS component made frequent monitoring visits and provided
technical advice which contributed to the successful implementation of the project. The
support from the CRAIDS also opened doors for other stakeholders to come on board and
fund this organization, which before it was funded by CRAIDS was only a community
grouping.

(iii) Kafue Gospel Singers Group:
Mr. Godfrey Chungu, the Chair Person of Kafue Gospel Singers Group says that the sub-
project received funding from the CRAIDS component for educational requirements,
income generating activities (IGAs) (selling music albums and chickens) and prevention
activities. With the support from CRAIDS the groups managed to support 54 OVC with
educational requirements from the IGA which is doing very well. They attribute this
success to the funds received from CRAIDS and also the capacity building sessions
conducted in procurement and financial management. Mr. Chungu hopes that the
CRAIDS component will receive more funding to enable it continue with its activities
and thereby help their project to scale up its current activities as the demand for support
in the communities is ever increasing.

(iv) National Drivers' Association
The National Drivers' Association was funded by CRAIDS through the private sector
window. The association targets drivers, one of the groups that have been identified in the
National HIV and AIDS Strategic Framework as a key priority group. With the support
from CRAIDS 8,700 drivers were reached with peer education mainly along the line of
rail. The support has helped the drivers substantially with regard to prevention. A recent
study done by Ministry of Transport and Communications shows that, there has been a
decline in number of STIs among this highly mobile population, primarily, as a result of
an increase in condom use. Mr. Aaron Samiyengo, the HIV and AIDS Coordinator with
the National Drivers' Association, attributes this development to the success of the
interventions, particularly in the areas of sensitization and peer educated, conducted by
the Association. As a result of the impact of the initial initiatives of the Association other
supporters have come on board to support the efforts, for instance wellness centres have
been established to provide on-site HIV and AIDS services. Ministry of Transport and
Communication in collaboration with NDA is now planning to introduce wellness centres
in many hot spots in the country. There is more funding required as the demand to



                                           96

establish more wellness centres at cross border areas and along the transport corridors is
immense. Thus, CRAIDS component still has a role to play.

(v) His Royal Highness, Senior Chief Mumena who is also Provincial AIDS Task Force
Chair Person, explains how projects funded by CRAIDS translated the vision of the fight
against HIV and AIDS into reality. Projects involved families and communities and by
empowering them the CRAIDS funded projects allowed individual families to be able to
respond effectively to the effects of the pandemic. Chief Mumena states that the funding
of community activities is one of the most meaningful strategies to fight HIV and AIDS.
Furthermore, he explains that the results on the ground are still there, even after the
CRAIDS funding has ended. For example provision of infrastructure and income
generating activities are still empowering OVC. This has resulted in that many children
supported now have hope for the future. Other donors have come on board after
CRAIDS, which has generated additional funding in many areas. CRAIDS gave them
footage ­ started from nothing, says Chief Mumena. He continues and describes that one
of the lessons-learned from CRAIDS is that it is important for the country to support
interventions that will bring sustainable projects to the communities. It will be important
to have more funds going towards the initiatives started by CRAIDS. ZANARA is a
project we as players on the ground, working with the communities, are proud with.




                                           97

                   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



1. Zambia Demographic and Health Survey [DHS] 2001/2
2. Midterm Review Aide memoire
3. DHS 2001/2002, 2002 Epidemiological sentinel surveillance, and the 2002/2003
    sexual behavior survey
4. Report of Zambian Business Coalition
5. Sexual behavior survey 2005
6. Epidemiological sentinel surveillance 2006/7
7. Joint Mid Term Review of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework 2006-
    2010
8. Educational Statistical bulletin 2007
9. UNGASS 2007
10. Epidemiological Antenatal Sentinel Surveillance/SSS 2007
11. ZANARA progress reports
12. Susan Beckerleg and Gilbert Mudenda




                                      98

                           22°E                                                              26°E                                                            30°E                                                                 This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                             Lake                                                                 World Bank. The boundaries,
             8°S                                                                                                                                      Tanganyika                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                           To        TANZANIA                     on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                Sumbu                   Sumbawanga
                                                                                                                                                   Kaputa                                                                         Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                           Mpulungu                                               or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                         Lake                                                                                     a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                     ZAMBIA                                                                                                             Mweru             Lake                    Mbala                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To              boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                         Mweru                                                  Mbeya
                                                                                                                                                        Wantipa
                                                                                                                                             Nchelenge           Mporokoso
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mwenzo
                                                                        DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                    OF CONGO                                                      Kawambwa                                                 Mafinga Hills Karonga
                                                                                                                                              LUAPULA                                                       (2301 m)

                                                                                                                                                              Luwingu                  Kasama

                                                                                                                                                                 N O R T H E R N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To                    Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mzuzu
                                                                                                                                                                Lake
                                                          To
                                                          To                                                                                                                         Chambeshi                                                      Malawi
                                                       Caianda                                                                                 Mansa            Bangwelu

                                                                                                                                                       Samfya
                                                                       Mwinilunga                                                                                         Kope


             12°S                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                            To                                                            Mpika
                                                                                             Solwezi                     Lubumbashi          Chembe                                                                                                        12°S
                                                                                Chisasa                                                                                           Mts.              Luangwa

                                          To
                                          To                                                          Mutanda                                                                                            Mwanya
                                       Lumbala                               N O R T H -                             Chingola       Mufulira

                                                                           W E S T E R N                                                  To Mokambo
                                                                                                                                   Ndola                          Muchinga               Mfuwe
                               Chavuma                                                         Kawana              C O P P E R -                            Serenje                                                  MALAWI
              ANGOLA          Lungwebungu
                                       Zambezi                        Manyinga     Kasempa                              B E L T
                        To
                        To                                                                                                                                                   Chisomo              Chipata                                                     MOZAMBIQUE
                     Lutembo                                                                                                                           Mkushi
                                                                  Kabompo                           Lunga
                                                                                                                             Kapiri Mposhi                                           E A S T E R N
                                                               Bus   a n g a                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                           C E N T R A L                                                                Lilongwe
                                                                                                                                                                                 Petauke
                                            Lukulu                S wa m p                                      Kafue                                                                            Katete
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                     Old Mkushi                                             Furancungo
                                                                                                Lubungu                  g a  Kabwe
                                                                                                                                                                                Nyimba
                                                                  Kaema                                                                             Machechete                                 MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                     (1488 m)
                                Kalabo       Zambezi                                                             Lukan
                                                                                                                 Swamp                                              Lunsemfwa


                                                                       Luampa                                    Mumbwa                            Rufunsa

                                                     Mongu                                                                                                   Kaulishishi
                                                                                                                                      LUSAKA                                                                     ZAMBIA
                                                                                                                                                              (1420 m)        To
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                  Mavua               W E S T E R N                          Namwala       Kafue                            LUSAKA                       Cahora Bassa

                                                                                                                 Mazabuka           Kafue                    Luangwa

             16°S       To
                        To      M u  l o n g a        Senanga              Kataba                                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                     Chiume        P la i n                                                                                        Chirundu        To
                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                 Harare
                                                      Sitoti                             S O U T H E R N                                                                                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                Shangombo                      Malundano                                                             Kariba
                                                                                                                     Pemba
                                                                                                         Choma                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                  Cuando                                 Mulobezi                                                  Lake            ZIMBABWE                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                         Bowwood         Kalomo                    Kariba                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                             Sesheke

OCTOBER                                                                To
                                                                       To                        Senkobo                                                                                                           RAILROADS                                              IBRD
                                                                     Ngoma                                                                   0     50    100    150        200 Kilometers
                                                    NAMIBIA                                    Livingstone Pokuma                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                 To
                                                                                 To
                                                                           Mpandamatenga                                                                                                                                                                                      33514
                                                                                         To
                                                                                         To
       2004                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                        Matetsi                                              0         50        100            150 Miles

                           22°E                                 BOTSWANA                     26°E                                                            30°E

