Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4782-VN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Ninth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 29, 2010 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July, 29, 2010, entered into between SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of:  (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined and modified in the Appendix to this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
ninety 
nine 
million 
three 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights               
(SDR 99,300,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar.  
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the 
Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying 
out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State 
Bank of Vietnam. 
 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Lý Thái T
Hà N
i
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
  412248 
  (84-4) 
3825 
0612 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Ha Noi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Alain Barbu 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
A. 
Business Development  
 
1. 
The Recipient has issued regulations on state-owned economic groups for better 
corporate governance and setting limits for cross share holding.  
 
2. 
The Recipient has finalized 
regulations to better assess commercial banks’ 
portfolio risks, enhance public disclosure, and strengthen supervision. 
 
B. Social 
Inclusion 
 
1. 
The Recipient has produced cost estimates and initiated public consultation on 
full-day schooling for primary education. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has adopted a law establishing a framework for national standards 
and a unified licensing system for all health care practitioners. 
 
C. Natural 
Resources 
 
1.
 
The Recipient has developed a proposal to continue the current National 
Targeted Program for rural water supply and sanitation, which focuses on 
promotion of rural sanitation and addresses personal hygiene. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has issued technical guidelines for efficient use of water resources 
to complement the government’s irrigation services fee waiver policy. 
 
D. Modern 
Governance 
 
1. 
The Recipient has formulated a regulation for development and implementation 
of internal audit of public sector agencies and defining organizational 
responsibilities. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has issued a regulation and developed pilot schemes to strengthen 
competition, merit orientation, and transparency in the recruitment, appointment, 
and promotion of civil servants. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has: (a) carried out annual procurement compliance and 
performance audits of projects funded by the state budget; (b)  made public 
Page  7
6
findings of selected audits; (c) adopted a pilot procurement code of ethics for 
participants; and (d) launched an open access electronic bidding system. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
99,300,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
99,300,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Condition.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; 
and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree: 
 
1. 
the Recipient shall open, prior to presenting to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit 
account in Dollar (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”) on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from the Financing Account 
shall be deposited by the Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit 
Account; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted 
for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
E. Audit. 
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
Page  8
7
1. 
have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Foreign 
Currency Deposit Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2020 to and 
including June 15, 2030 
1.25% 
commencing December 15, 2030 to and 
including June 15, 2045 
2.50% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions  
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
Page  11
10
 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
3. 
“National Targeted Program” means the program of policies, actions, and 
procedures, adopted under Prime Minister Decision No. 277/2006/QD-TTg dated 
December 11, 2006. 
 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty, set forth in the 
Recipient’s Socio-economic Development Plan 2006-2010 (SEDP 2006-2010) 
approved by National Assembly Resolution No. 56/2006/QH11 of June 29, 2006, 
together with the Action Plan of the Government to implement the SEDP issued 
by Prime Minister Resolution No. 25/2006/NQ-CP of October 9, 2006; the 
Recipient having expressed its commitment to the execution of said Program, and 
requested assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution in a letter to the Association, dated May 18, 2010. 
 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
Page  12
11
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date.  The 
Recipient shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
Page  13
12
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
