Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5206 
Operation Name 
Vietnam Poverty Reduction Support Credit 9 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General education sector (20%); Health (20%);General finance 
sector (20%);General public administration sector (20%);General 
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P111182 
Borrower(s) 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
The State Bank of Vietnam 
47-49 Ly Thai To Street 
Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 3934-3361 Fax: (84-4) 825-0612 
icdwb@vnn.vn 
Date PID Prepared 
November 5, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 4, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 24, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Vietnam is navigating the global financial crisis relatively well.  The GDP growth has accelerated in the 
last quarter, and domestic activities are gaining strength. This is an important time for engagement by 
the international community.  Vietnam’s ability to maintain macroeconomic stability while continuing to 
fight against poverty and to implement reforms will be tested this and next years.  Active engagement 
should contribute to improving the content and coherence of such reforms. 
 
The next year will be the last year of Vietnam’s Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) 2006-10, 
which was presented to the Board in 2006 as Vietnam’s Poverty Reduction Strategy.  In it, Vietnam 
expresses its ambition to become a middle-income country by 2010.  The reform actions to be supported 
under the SEDP fall under four broad heads: (a) the promotion of growth and transition to a middle-
income market economy, (b) reducing poverty and ensuring social inclusion, (c) managing environmental 
and natural resources in a sustainable manner, and (d) building institutions to support the above actions 
and promote modern governance. 
 
The cross-cutting nature of the policy dialogue PRSCs support strengthens coordination among line 
ministries and government agencies.  Their emphasis on a selected number of policy actions facilitates 
an in-depth discussion of their content.  Their demanding annual sequence, combined with the forward-
looking nature of the triggers used to launch the preparation of the next operation in the cycle, helps 
keep the pace of reform.  Progress made on public financial management over the last decade mitigates 
the risks associated with direct budget support.  In addition to providing resources to the budget, PRSC 
operations serves as an effective donor coordination device, supported by an increasingly large number 
of development partners.  PRSCs have been co-financed by bilateral and multilateral agencies, either 
through grants or through parallel lending   
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
Page  2
The proposed credit is the fourth in a five-year cycle aimed at supporting the implementation of the 
SEDP.  PRSCs are well-suited to address the challenges Vietnam currently faces.  This operation aims to 
maintain the momentum for the reforms needed to transform Vietnam from a transition to a middle-
income country.  Through policy dialogues it aims to share which the knowledge the World Bank and 
participating development partners collectively possess with the Vietnamese authorities, and to improve 
coherence among government agencies, and hence, policies through coordination and improving 
communication. 
3. Preliminary description 
 
PRSC 9 has 11 triggers, negotiated with the government under PRSC8, in the areas of (a) state sector, 
(b) financial sector, (c) education, (d) health, (e) gender, (f) water and sanitation, (g) environment, (h) 
public financial management, (i) legal development, (j) public administration reform, and (k) anti-
corruption.  Sufficient progress towards achieving them will form the basis for proceeding with the 
operation.  In addition to the 11 triggers, there are benchmarks that guide the policy dialogues, which are 
classified under four pillars: (1) business development, (2) social inclusion, (3) natural resources, and (4) 
modern governance.  The benchmarks are determined in consultation with the government and 
participating development partners. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The rapid growth and structural transformation associated with Vietnam’s transition to a market 
economy does raise issues of environmental sustainability. To address these concerns PRSC operations 
have contained policy actions aimed at strengthening environmental management and encouraging the 
sustainable use of natural resources.  In the proposed operation, following the SEDP, environmental and 
natural resource management is viewed as a key pillar of the reform agenda. Supporting analytical work 
by the Bank, including the Country Environmental Assessment, as well as analyses of Poverty-
Environment Nexus and biodiversity, are employed to better understand environmental impacts, 
identifying gaps in the existing institutional arrangements and incentives necessary for improved 
environmental governance.  The government has developed a regulatory framework for environmental 
impact assessments, standards and compliance monitoring with the overall responsibility under the 
Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment.  Though its present capacity at local level is limited, the 
government appears committed to undertaking a substantive program of environmental capacity 
building, institutional strengthening, environmental and land use planning as well as physical investment 
projects addressing environmental issues.  Donor support for national environmental programs is strong 
and covers a diverse range of initiatives across many sectors. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Keiko Kubota 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5777+336 / 84-4-3934-6600 
Fax: (844) 3934 6597 
Email: kkubota@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD)
Page  3
