Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
L,v 326 7 I/ML>
Report No. P-5399-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
OCTOBER 23, 1990
Th document has a restricted distribtion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
US$1.00        D  Rupiah (Rp.) 1,858
Rp.l million   =  US$538
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EI            -  Bank Indonesia
BOD           -  Board of Directors
CCCN          -  Customs Coordination Council Nomenclature
CFF           - Compensatory Financing Facility
EKUIN         -  Office of the Coordinating Minister for Economy,
Finance, Industry and Development Supervision
ESW           - Economic and Sector Work Program
GOI           - Government of Indonesia
HS            - Harmonized System (of trade classification)
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
IMF           -  International Monetary Fund
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
NFPE          - Non-Financial Public Enterprise
NGO           - Non-governmental Organizations
NTB           - Non-tariff barrier
OED           -  Operations Evaluation Department
O&M           - Operations and Maintenance
PE            -  Public Enterprise
PERUMTEL      -  The State Telecommunications Enterprise
PLN           -  The State Electric Company
PSDL          -  Private Sector Development Loan
REPELITA      - National Five-Year Development Plan
SGS           -  Societe Generale de Surveillance S.A.
SOE           -  Statement of Expenditure
TPAL          -  Trade Policy Adjustment Loan



FOR OMCIL4 USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Table of Coutents
Page No.
LOAN SUMMARY
I.  OVERVIEW .     ......................................................   1
Introduction ............       ....................................   1
Policy Framework for Private Sector Development ....        .........   2
Performance Under Past Adjustment Lending .....         ..............   3
1I.  RECENT PROGRESS ON POLICIES FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ....    5
Macroeconomic Management .......      .......................         5
Trade Policy Reforms        ...............................           6
A.  Impact on NTBs ........ .....................                   8
B.  Impact on Tariffs       .................8.................... 
C.  Impact on Export Restrictions .........................         9
Reform of Domestic Regulations ......        ........................  10
Public Enterprise Reforms and Privatization Strategy  .......  11
Public Enterprise Reforms ......        ...........................  11
Privatization Strategy .......        .............................  12
Financial Sector Reforms .......        .............................  13
III.  REMAINING AGENDA AND ECONOMIC OUTLOOK .........................  14
Remaining Agenda for Private Sector Development ..... ........ 14
Continued Sound Macroeconomic Management ....... .......... 14
Further Reforms in Trade and Domestic Regulations ........  15
Strengthening Financial Regulations and Institutions ...  15
Further Deregulation in Transport ......... ..        .............  16
Moving Ahead with Public Enterprise Reforms ...... ........  16
Mediuht-Ternm Outlook     ...................  ......................  16
Growth and Macroeconomic Stability ..........         .............  16
Implications for Employment and Poverty ........ ..........  16
Balance of Payments Outlook, External Financing
Requirements and Creditworthiness .......................... 18
Balance of Payments Outlook and
External Financing Requirements ...........8...............  l
Implications for Creditworthiness ........................  19
Dealing with Uncertainties in the External Environment ... 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.  BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT .........................  21
Growth with Stability ...... .....**** ........  22
Wider Participation *.....*.....*...*.....................  22
Poverty Reduction ....*.t        ...................................  23
Sustainable Development ......... .o. ... . .. . . ..  ......... ........ ....  23
Bank Support for Private Sector Development         .................  24
Macroeconomic Environment and Incentives Framework ....... 24
Expansion and Restructuring of Productive Capacity ....... 25
Supportive Infrastructure and Human Resources Development   25
V.  THE PROPOSED LOAN .....* .................... to*** .......... .  26
Loan Objectives and Rationale ................................  26
Loan Administration ....... .............  27
Procurement .......................................  ....40........to  27
Disbursement .......................................... *0. .........  27
Accounts and Audits . * ........................ ..... .......... 28
Monitoring and Follow up .... ............. . ............... .t. 28
Program Benefits and Risks ............. ....... ...............  29
VI.  RELATIONS WITH IMF ....................... ... ................... 30
VII.  RECOMMENDATION .       . o..................*.. .........  30
TABLES:
Table 1:  Impact of Reform Packages on Import Licensing
Coverage Since 1986 . ............... .. ........... .  ........ .   7
Table 2s  Indonesian Tariff Schedule at a Glance    ....................  8
Table 3s  Changes in the Tariff Schedule since 1985 ......... ........   9
Table 4:  Aggregate Indicators of Public Enterprise Performance
1-983-1989 ............................... ............ ...........  13
Table 5:  Selected Economic Indicators, 1989-1995 ................... 17
Table 6s  External Capital Requirements and Sources ................. 19
Table 7s  Alternative Oil Price Scenarios and Policy Options ........ 21
ANNEXES:
I.  Key Economic Indicators .................... ...................... 31
II.  The Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia ............. 33
III.  Supplementary Data Sheet .........................    ............... 37
IV.  Government's Statement on Economic Policy       .................... 38
V.  Policy Framework ......................... ..  ................ ..  47
VI.  Implementation and Impact of Reforms Supported by
First Private Sector Development Loan ...................... 56
VII.  Details of Recent Policy Measures .....   .       ..................  66
VIII.  Evaluation of May 1990 Trade Deregulation Package ............  73



INDONESIA
SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR D m LOPMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Indonesia
3xecutin£ Agencies:       Bank Indonesia and Ministry of Finance
Amount:                   US$250 million equivalent
Termss                    20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Project Descriptions:    The objectives of the proposed loan are to accelerate
the expansion of the private sector by: (a) supporting
the implementation of substantial policy measures
undertaken by the Government of Indonesia (GOI) during
1989 and 1990; (b) assisting GOI to maintain a
satisfactory pace of economic growth that is consistent
with external and internal financial stability; and
(c) maintaining the policy dialogue on further reforms
to promote the efficiency and longer-term viability of
the economy. The loan of US$250 million equivalent
would finance general imports of goods to meet part of
Indonesia's near-term foreign exchange requirements,
and play a catalytic role in mobilizing a targeted
level of US$1.2 billion new commitment of fast-
disbursing assistance from other donors.
Benefits and Risks:       The policy measures taken by the Government during
1989-90 will boost private sector development by:
(a) providing a stable macroeconomic setting;
(b) reducing distortions in the trade regime;
(c) improving the efficiency of the public enterprise
sector by selective divestiture and enterprise
restructuring, thereby lowering the cost of publicly
provided goods and services; (d) promoting a more
efficient, competitive, and stable financial system.
The benefits of the ongoing adjustment process are
evident in the recent performance of the economy,
especially the strong growth of non-oil exports,
investment and manufacturing activity. In all of these
areas, the private sector is now playing a much larger
role than in the early 1980s. The principal risk is
that the far-reaching nature of these reforms could
encounter domestic opposition as they are implemented
and extended. This risk is offset by the positive
response to earlier reforms, the program's ability to
reconcile poverty alleviation objective with growth and
adjustment, and the Government's demonstrated
commitment to carry out difficult and sensitive
reforms.



Estimated Disbursement:  US$250 million will be disbursed by July 31, 1991
Economic Rate of
Return:                Not applicable
Appraisal Report:         None



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Private Sector Development Loan to Indonesia for the equivalent of
US$250 million. The proposed loan would have a term of 20 years, including
5 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
2.       An economic report, entitled Indonesiat Foundations for Sustained
Growthu (No. 8455-IND, dated May 4, 1990) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in May 1990. Anr,ex I gives selected economic indicators for the
country.
PART I - OVERVIEW
Introduction
3.       Policies towards the public and private sectors have undergone
dramatic changes in Indonesia since the mid-1980s. Responding to a sharp
deterioration in the external environment, the Government of Indonesia
(GOI) embarked upon a wide-ranging program of reforms, designed to maintain
financial stability and restore the growth momentum based on a dynamic
private sector. The World Bank has provided strong support to GOI's reform
program through two trade policy adjustment loans (TPALs I and II) of
US$300 million each (approved on February 3, 1987 and May 10, 1988
respectively) and a private sector development loan (PSDL I) of
US$350 million (approved on June 6, 1989).
4.       As with TPALs I and II, implementation of the reform program
supported by PSDL I has proceeded well and the results--in terms of
achieving a high rate of economic growth while maintaining macroeconomic
stability, and promoting the role of the private sector--have been very
encouraging. Over the past year, GOI has maintained its sound
macroeconomic policies, while pushing ahead with further structural reforms
to promote the private sector. New policy initiatives have been taken in
the areas of follow-up identified in PSDL I, including trade policy,
domestic regulations, financial sector and public enterprises.
S.       Based on good performance in implementing the measures supported
by PSDL I, sustained progress on the private sector development reform
agenda, and a continued need for balance of payments support, albeit at
reduced levels, GOI has requested another adjustment loan. The purpose of
this fourth adjustment loan is to support the ongoing adjustment efforts of
GOI, and in particular, to further expand the role played by the private
sector in the development of the country. In addition to its direct
contribution, the proposed loan would provide an important catalytic role
in mobilizing the quick disbursing assistance needed to support the ongoing



-2-
adjustment program. The total level of such special assistance needed from
official donors is estimated at about US$1.2 billion for the current
Indonesian fiscal year (1990191).
6.       Indonesia's current circumstances continue to justify the need for
special assistance (see paras. 43-44). The surge in economic growth and
private investment resulting from GOI's successful implementation of its
structural reform program has generated a large increase in the demand for
imports by the private sector during 1990191. At the same time,
Indonesia's non-oil export earnings have been adversely affected by the
recent decline in non-oil commodity prices. The negative impact of these
developments on Indonesia's balance of payments will partially be offset by
the higher-than-expected oil prices resulting from the current Middle East
crisis. Nevertheless, the current account deficit in 1990/91 is expected
to remain at around US$1.8 billion as projected during the beginning of the
Indonesian fiscal year. Given Indonesia's large debt service burden, an
estimated US$1.2 billion of special assistance will be needed to meet the
financing gap in the balance of payments. The Government's financing plan
indicates that Japan is expected to provide US$700 million, the Asian
Development Bank US$250 million, and the World Bank has been requested to
give US$250 million in the framework of this Second Private Sector
Development Loan (PSDL II).
7.       The underlying balance of payments projections are subject to
considerable uncertainties (see paras. 46-47). These uncertainties
reinforce the importance of continued prudent macroeconomic management.
The letter of development policy (Annex IV) indicates that the Government
is committed to maintaining this policy stance.
Policy Framework for Private Sector Development
8.       Although the private sector in Indonesia has traditionally played
an important role in smallholder agriculture, small and medium industry and
the provision of many services (particularly trade and transport), the
public sector's participation in economic activity expanded rapidly during
much of the 19708 and the early 1980s fueled by oil earnings. By the early
19808, the Central Government owned some 214 enterprises in virtually all
sectors of the economy. Following the decline of oil prices in the early
Eighties, there was a major shift in policy regarding the roles of the
private sector and public enterprises. GOI made large cutbacks in public
investment to contain the fiscal deficit and sharply reduced budgetary
transfers to state enterprises. The Government also recognized that the
private sector must be encouraged to play a more dynamic role in the
development of the country by supporting the growth of employment, incomes
and exports. The importance attached to developing the private sector is
strongly reflected in the current five year development plan (REPELITA V).
The basic objectives of GOI's strategy towards the private sector are tot
(a) promote more rapid growth through increased efficiency; and (b) provide
wider participation and ownership for the private sector in economic
activities.



- 3 -
9.       The main elements of GOI's policy framework for the private sector
aresl/
o    Sound macroeconomic management, to protect the private sector's access
to financial resources and provide appropriate signals for efficient
resource mobilization and allocation.
O    Appropriate domestic incentives and regulatory framework, geared to the
rapid and efficient growth of the private sector.
O    Appropriate policies toward public enterprises, aimed at supporting an
expanded role for the private sector and improving the efficiency of
enterprises remaining in the public sector.
O    An efficient and diversified financial system, to provide the broad
array of financial services necessary to support a growing private
sector.
=    Efficient and adequate availability of economic infrastructure, support
services and human resources, to ensure the sustained expansion of the
private sector.
10.      To implement this policy framework, GOI undertook a major reexamination
of the constraints to private sector development namely: a distorted incentive
regime, a restricted ownership policy, a cumbersome regulatory framework,
deficiencies in infrastructure and supporting services and weaknesses in the
financial sector. Beginning in 1984, GOI embarked upon a concerted effort to
reduce and simplify economic regulations. This drive gathered momentum over the
past six years, culminating in a series of major reforms on trade policy,
investment licensing, financial sector development and maritime regulations.
Performance Under Past Adjustment Lending
11.      The World Bank has maintained a close, constructive dialogue with GO0
on the adjustment program and policy reforms for private sector development
since 1983. Actions taken during 1986187-1987/88, focussed on trade and
investment deregulation, were supported by TPALs I and II. The third adjustment
loan--PSDL I--supported a broadening of the reform effort during 1988/89 to
include measures in the areas of trade, investment, finance and transport.
These measures were designed to promote the development of an efficient private
sector. The performance of TPALs I and II was reviewed by OED and the findings
were reported to the Board on June 30, 1989.21 The report noted thats the
reforms supported 1y TPALs I and II were appropriate; the implementation of the
1/ A detailed review of this framework is contained in the President's
Report for PSDL I, Report No. P-5073-IND.
2/ Program Performance Audit Report, Indonesia: First and Second Trade
Policy Adjustment Loans (Loans 2780-IND and 2937-IND), Report No. 7947,
OED, June 30, 1989.



- 4 -
reforms was done well; and the impact of the measures in terms of economic
stability, growth and structural change was strongly positive. Our preliminary
analysis of the PSDL I experience, presented in Annex VI, is similarly positive.
12.      The highlights of achievements supported by past adjustment loans are:
o    Macroeconomic Stability.  Sound macroeconomic management has helped in
maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment. This is reflected in:
reduced fiscal and current account deficits, inflation rate maintained
below 10, appropriate exchange rate ensuring competitiveness of the
economy, market-based interest rates, and a declining ratio of debt
service to export receipts.
O    Economic Growth.  The most dramatic effect of GOI's adjustment measures
has been on economic activity. Thus, the growth of GDP averaged 5.52
between 1986-1988, and then accelerated to 7.4Z in 1989, with non-oil
GDP growing even faster--by 8.1X. The main determinants of growth
were: (a) non-oil exports, growing from US$6.7 billion in 1986/87 to
US$14.1 billion in 1989/90; (b) private sector Investment, which
increased by 9.3? p.a. during 1986-88 and by over 17? in 1989; and
(c) greater economic efficiency, reflected in improvements in total
factor productivity.
o    Structural Change.  Sustained progress on structural reforms has
resulted in a significant improvement in the structure of the economy
with a substantial decline in the importance of oil/LNG revenue in the
budget and the balance of payments. The rapid rise in the share of
non-oil manufacturing in GDP and the share nf private investment in
total investment are important additional indicators of the increased
diversity of the economy and the growing role of the private sector.
As a result of these changes, Indonesia now relies on more promising
and sustainable sources of growth.
O    Social Cost of Adjustment.  A remarkable feature of Indonesia's
adjustment experience has been the continued reduction of poverty in
both urban and rural areas.3/ The success in reducing poverty is
attributable partly to the conditions prevailing prior to the external
shocks but chiefly to the nature and speed of the Government's policy
response to these shocks. By improving overall economic efficiency, by
shifting resources away from inward-oriented, capital intensive public
sector industrial activities, and by protecting public expenditure
priorities in poverty-oriented sectors relative to other sectors, the
reform program allowed Indonesia to make solid progress towards
restoring financial stability while sustaining a steady growth of
consumption. The Indonesian experience offers clear evidence of the
possibility of combining successful structural adjustment with poverty
reduction.
31 Indonesia: Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report, World Bank Report
No. 8034-IND, May 1990.



- 5 -
PART II - RECENT PROGRESS ON POLICIES FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
13.      PSDL I had emphasized that further adjustment lending would be
contingent upon satisfactory progress with policy reforms in the following core
areast4/
o    macroeconomic management
o    trade regime
o    domestic regulations
o    public enterprises
o    financial sector
Over the past year, GOI has pushed ahead with its program of structural reforms
and private sector development, focussed on the above core areas. The policy
progress has generally closely tracked the actions specified in the PSDL I
follow-up agenda; but in some areas, notably the reform of the liquidity credit
scheme, the scope of reforms has even exceeded our initial expectations.
Macroeconomic Management
14.      The Government implemented a prudent budget for 1989190, including a
very strong effort to boost non-oil revenues. Non-oil taxes of the Central
Government are estimated to have expanded from 102 of non-oil GDP in 1988/89 to
11.21 in 1989/90. Power prices were increased by an average of 252 in April
1989, while fertilizer prices were raised by 162 in October 1989. As a result
of these measures, the primary budget balance remained in surplus while the
budget deficit declined from 2.5Z of GDP in 1988/89 to 0.8? in 1989/90.
Furthermore, the adjustment in power and fertilizer prices helped reduce
distortions resulting from these regulated prices. The adjustment in power
prices enabled the state electricity company (PLN) to improve its overall rate
of return on revalued assets from 0 in 1988/89 to 6.3Z in 1989/90 while the
increase in fertilizer prices restrained budgetary subsidies on fertilizer to
only 0.4Z of GDP in 1989/90.
15.      A prudent budget combined with a strong non-oil export performance
enabled the reduction of the current account deficit to below 2? of GNP and the
debt service ratio was lowered from 36? in 1988/89 to 322 in 1989/90. Inflation
was reduced to around 6?. The Government has sought to maintain the
competitiveness of the exchange rate by depreciating the nominal exchange rate
and reducing the rate of inflation. During October 1989, Bank Indonesia
introduced a new procedure for exchange rate management by allowing n;ore
flexibility in the Rupiah exchange rate, in line with market trends.
16.      In the new budget for 1990/91, announced in January, provision is made
for an increase in civil service salaries (by 102). This is appropriate under
current circumstances, especially in v'ew of several years of wage freeze during
1985/86-1988/89. The overall fiscal stance remains cautious, with a primary
budget surplus and declining net domestic expenditure. These trends reflect the
continued strong emphasis placed on public resource mobilization. In addition
4/ see President's Report for PSDL I, para. 82, page 30.



- 6 -
to the ongoing program for strengthening the non-oil tax effort, the Government
has raised fuel and fertilizer prices and increased telecammunication charges.
Effective May 25, 1990, GOI raised domestic oil prices by an average of 15.32 to
reduce budgetary oil subsidy and to encourage more efficient use of energy.
Based on the average world oil price assumed in the budget (US$16.5 per barrel),
this measure is expected to yield Rp.l.l trillion (0.5S of GDP) increase in
revenues in 1990191. At the budgeted oil price this would have produced an oil
surplus rather than a subsidy. Fertiiizer prices were increased by an
additional 172 in October 1990, which will help reduce budgetary subsidy on
fertilizer from 0.4X of GDP in l989190 to 0.3Z in 1990193. Finally, steps were
taken in October 1990 to raise and .ationalize telecommunications charges.
17.      Monetary aggregates grew more rapidly during 1989 than in the past
several years, in part reflecting the structural changes resulting from
financial sector reforms. In response to concerns about pressures on domestic
prices and on the balance of payments, GOI has been monitoring trends in the
monetary aggregates during 1990 closely. The initial implementation of the
phasing out of liquidity credits announced on January 29, 1990 a:d further
measures taken in June 1990 have tightened monetary policy and raised interest
rates. These in turn have helped strengthen foreign exchange reserves, while
inflationary pressures have been reduced. The full implementation of the
liquidity credit reform will considerably strengthen the effectiveness of
monetary management (see para. 31 below).
Trade Policy Reforms
18.      Since the mid-1980s, GOI has embarked on a series of trade and
deregulation measures to improve the competitiveness of domestic production.
These reforms were designed mairly to move away from a trade regime based on
import license protection towards one bas.. on tariffs.  The cumulative impact
of the removal of non-tariff barriers (NTBs) through the various reform packages
up to November 1988 was a reduction in the share of total domestic production
protected by import licensing from 412 in mid-1986 to 29Z by end-December 1988
(see Table 1). The strategy of moving away from NTBs inevitally increases the
importance of the tariff structure. The last major reform of Indonesia's tariff
schedule took place in 1985. Since then, partly in response to the removal of
NTBs, split tariffs and surcharges have been introduced to protect some domestic
producers. As a result, marked differences between and within sectors in the
level and dispersion of tariffs have prevailed.
19.      In recognition of the need to reduce further the role of NTBs and to
broaden the trade reform effort to include a comprehensive rationalization of
the tariff schedule, GOI announced another major package of trade policy reforms
on Hay 28, 1990. The highlights of the package are:5/
o    The removal of import licensing restrictions for some 335 products.
A broad range of products has been affected by this reform including
cement, fertilizer, synthetic yarns, some machinery and electronic
products.
5/ The listing of recent policy measures in trade, investment, finance and
public enterprises is provided in Annex VII.



- 7 -
Table 1: IMPACT OF REFORM PACKAGES ON IMPORT LICENSING COVERAGE
SINCE 1986 /a
l
Mid-1986  End-1987  End-1988 I Early 1990  May 1990
Z of CCCN items                  32         22        16    1         -        -
Z of HS items                     -          -         -    I       17        14
2 of import value                43         25        21    1       17        15
2 of total production value      41         38        29    1       28        25
(Z of total production value
excluding rice)                (25)      (22)      (13)   1       (12)      (9)
Memo items                                                  1
2 of domestic production
coverage of NTBss                                         I
- Manufacturing                68         58       45    1        38        33
- Agriculture                  54         53       41    1        40        38
- Mining and minerals tb      0.2        0.2      0.2    1       0.24      0.24
l
/a  There is a discontinuity in the series from end-1988 due to two causes: the
shift from CCCN to HS system of tariffs; and the update from 1985 to 1987
production as the basis for calculating production coverage ratios of NTBs.
However, this discontinuity does not compromise the analysis of trends since
1986. It should be noted that the food, beverages and tobacco industries
are included in the manufacturing sector.
lb Including oil and gas.
Source:  World Bank staff estimates.
O    A reduction in the total number of tariff items from 9,662 to
9,492, largely resulting from the reduction of the number of split
tariff items from 592 to 429 (see Table 2).
O    A lowering of the ceiling on most tariffs from 602 to 40Z so that
fewer than 5Z of tariff items have tariffs (including surcharges) in
excess of 402 compared with 242 above that level before the reform.
O    Replacing the few remaining specific tariffs with lower ad-valorem
rates.
O    An easing of export restrictions, thereby reversing the past trend of
higher export restrictions.



- 8 -
Table 2: INDONESIAN TARIFF SCHEDULE AT A GLANCE
Before May 1990     After May 1990
Number of basic tariff items                    9,070               9,063
Number of split tariff items                      413                 180
Total number of splits                            592                 429
Effective number of tariff items                9,662               9,492
Number of items with surcharges                   376                 542
Source: World Bank Staff estimates.
20.      A detailed evaluation of the May 1990 trade reform package is presented
in Annex VIII. The main findings are:
A.       Impact on NTBs
o    The number of items under NTBs has been reduced by about 202 so that
presently about 14Z of all items are subject to NTBs.
O    The coverage of NTBs has been reduced from: 17? to 152 for import
value; 28Z to 252 for total production; and 38? to 33Z for
manufactured products.
O    The reduction of NTBs was concentrated in the manufacturing sector.
In particular, large reductions took place in non-metallic products
(mainly cement), basic metals, chemicals, and fish products.
B.       Impact on Tariffs
o    The unweighted tariff has declined by almost a fifth, from 27Z to
22? (see Table 3).
O    The import-weighted average tariff rate declined from 122 to 102
while the production-weighted average tariff rate fell from 19? to
17Z.
O    In addition to lowering the tariff ceiling to 40? for 95Z of all
tariff items, the share of tariff items at a 25? rate or below rose
from 69? before the May 1990 reform to more than 75Z. This
indicates that the bottom end of the tariff structure has also
improved.
o    The dispersion of tariffs has been reduced.



- 9 -
o    Tariff changes are concentrated in the manufacturing sector,
particularly in textiles and leather, non-metallic industries and
wood products. The tariff reduction is most evident in consumer
goods.
O    The positive impact of the May 28 tariff reforms would have been
greater than indicated above but for the introduction of new
surcharges, partly to provide temporary protection to items moved
off NTBs.
Table 3s CHANGES IN THE TARIFF SCHEDULE SINCE 1985 la
Pre-1985  1985   1988   1989   May 1990
Average tariff rates (X)
Unweighted                                   37      27     24      27       22
Weighted
- by import value                           22      13     15      12       10
- by domestic production                    29      19     18      19       17
Index of dispersion /b                       62     108     90      93       89
la Includes surcharges.
/b Measured by the coefficient of variation.
Source:  World Bank staff estimates.
C.       Impact on Export Restrictions
o    Export restrictions were eliminated on the following products:
nutmeg, produce from North Sumatra, fruits of the Tengkawang, and
casia vera.
O    Export regulations have been eased on processed sandalwood and
aloewood.
o    The Government has dissolved the association of registered coffee
exporters and the joint marketing group of coffee exporters, thereby
promoting competition through facilitating the entry of new
exporters.
21.      The May 1990 reform represents a significant change for a number of
reasons. First, NTBs have been reduced further. Of the 25Z of domestic
production remaining under NTBs, 16 percentage points relate to rice, where GOI
maintains import restrictions for food security objectives. Indonesia is an
efficient producer of rice for the domestic market. Excluding rice, only 9? of



- 10 -
domestic production is affected by NTBs at this stage. Second, the reduction in
the tariff ceiling from 601 to 402, with 95? of items in the 40? range, is a
major step forward in rationalizing the tariff structure. Third, the
transparency of the tariff system has improved with the reductions in the total
number of tariff items and items with split tariffs. Fourth, the package is
seen as another step in GOI's program to rationalize the tariff structure.
Thus, in announcing the May 28 measures, GOI indicated that further changes can
be expected over the next 12 months. Finally, the May 1990 package signalled an
important change in GOI's policy on export restrictions. During 1988 policies
were introduced that increased the coverage of export restrictions. This trend
has now been reversed.
Reform of Domestic Regulations
22.      In parallel with trade deregulation, GOI broadened and intensified its
efforts to improve domestic incentives and the regulatory environment for the
private sector through a series of measures over 1985-89. Reform has progressed
significantly in the area of investment licensing and the regulation of foreign
direct investment. Importantly, the policy stance has shifted from control to
encouragement of investment. In this regard, the May 1989 reform supported by
PSDL I was a fundamental change. Through this initiative, GOI replaced a long
list of activities open to both domestic and foreign investment with a short
list of activities that were closed. The main follow-up task for GOI over the
past year was to ensure the full implementation of this major reform.
Discussions with GOI and the business community have indicated that the
implementation of the negative list has proceeded well. Investors have reported
that investment applications are being processed and approved speedily on the
basis of the negative list, The response to deregulation of investment has been
a sharp increase in domestic and foreign investment. Domestic investment
approvals, which had slowed in the mid-1980s, doubled in 1987 and increased by a
further 402 (in dollar terms) in 1988. The rate of increase was about 312 in
1989. Similarly, after recording a sharp and steady decline since 1983, foreign
investment approvals increased by 782 in 1987 and a remarkable 3002 in 1988 to
reach US$4.4 billion. The approvals of foreign investment continued to grow,
reaching US$5.6 billion in 1989. Moreover, unlike the 1970s and the early
1980s. when the bulk of private investment was oriented towards the domestic
market, most new investment approvals are directed towards export activities.
23.      In the May 1990 package, GOI has further deregulated investment
procedures in agriculture and the pharmaceutical industry. Deregulation has now
been extended to agriculture with the easing of various restrictions in the
poultry, livestock, and fisheries industries. In the poultry industry the
reform has eliminated the restriction on the size of farms and eased
restrictions on foreign investment. Likewise, in the livestock industry
licensing has been reduced in scope, procedures simplified and validity made
permanent. In an effort to promote the fishing industry, certain licensing
procedures have been delegated to provincial authorities while licensing
requirements have been eliminated for small indigenous fishermen. At the same
time, the quality control procedures for the export of frozen fish have been
deregulated, with scope for private certified laboratories to provide this
service. For the pharmaceutical industry, the reform has eased licensing



- 11 -
procedures for both production and distribution. In addition, the processing
requirements for applications and registration of drugs have been simplified.
These changes complement the reduction in levels of import protection for
pharmaceuticals production and should facilitate increased competition in the
industry, and thereby increase efficiency and lower health care costs. At the
same time, the Government intends to supervise the quality control systems of
the industry more tightly.
Public Enterprise Reforms and Privatization Strategy
24.      Public Enterprise Reforms.  There has been a major shift in policy
towards public enterprises (PEs) in Indonesia, fueled by a growing recognition
of the burden that PEs place on the economy. With the first signs of a
weakening of oil prices in 1982, GOI took steps to contain investment by PEs,
particularly in industry and mining. A large number of capital-intensive
projects were rephased in 1983. Subsequently, tight control has been kept on
utilization of non-concessional import-related credits, and funding of PEs
through the budget has been restrained. Moreover, the ongoing deregulation
process in trade, investment, transport and finance coupled with gradual pricing
reforms have provided competitive pressures for PEs to operate more efficiently.
25.      Following these initial steps, GOI since 1988 has been developing a
policy framework for the longer-term reform of PEs. The PEs were originally
established to meet the needs of the people for the efficient supply of high
quality goods and services, especially for items which the private sector could
not be expected to provide efficiently. With the development of the economy and
the recent deregulation measures, the number and range of enterprises that need
to remain under government ownership have declined. Accordingly, the two major
objectives of GOI's longer-term reform program for PEs are to: (a) introduce
organizational and managerial reforms in enterprises that will remain in the
public sector, to improve their efficiency and reduce their burden on scarce
public resources; and (b) divest enterprises that need not remain under public
ownership, in a phased and orderly manner.
26.      In preparation for these reforms, and following upen Presidential
Decree No.5 in October 1988, two ministerial decrees, issued in June 1989, set
out the financial performance criteria for public enterprises and outlined a
number of options to improve their efficiency and productivity. Using financial
data from 1985-88, some 189 enterprises have been classified into four
categories: very sound, sound, less sound and unsound. Based on the type of
good or service involved and these financial indicators, a set of corporate
restructuring strategies has been proposed jointly by the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and the line ministries for the various enterprises. These strategies
range from change in legal status of the firm, to sale of equity on the bourse,
to liquidation. This initial design for restructuring was accompanied by
instructions to the PEs to prepare five-year corporate plans and annual work
programs for use by the management of the PEs, the line ministries and the MOF.
In addition, the roles for PE management, line ministries and the MOF have been
defined more clearly. Thus, routine management for most PEs will be the



- 12 -
responsibility of the Board of Directors (BODs). The interventions of the
technical ministries and the MOP will be done in the context of approving an
annual work program and a five year corporate plan.
27.      The Government is now proceeding with a phased implementation of its
reform strategy described above. As a first step, some of the listed options
have been implemented selectively, including change in the legal status of three
enterprises to facilitate more commercial mode of operation, the establishment
of management contracts for four PEs, the merger of three PEs, joint ventures
for two PEs, and the liquidation of two PEs. Furthermore, significant changes
in the compensation package and accountability for members of the PE BODs have
been introduced selectively, aimed at enhancing performance through better
incentives and instituting better accountability for poor performance.
Together, the new salary structure, the clarified roles of the PE management,
MOE and line ministries, and the five year corporate plans and annual work
programs, constitute the nucleus of an improved system of accountability and
control of PEs.
28.      The ongoing reforms in the PE sector--a combination of tight budgetary
transfer policy, regulatory reforms to increase competition and a concerted
effort to enhance financial and economic performance of PEs remaining in the
public sector--present strong evidence of GOI's commitment to enhancing the
efficiency and financial performance of PEs. As a result of greater scrutiny of
FE performance and the impact of ongoing deregulation measures, there is already
evidence of some improvement in the financial performance of PEs. For example,
profitability of non-financial PEs (rate of return on assets) has risen from
3.02 in 1984 to 5.92 in 1989 (see Table 4).
29.      Privatization Strategy.  In parallel with steps to improve the
performance of PEs, the Government is pursuing a policy of gradual divestiture
and privatization. There are two main elements in this strategy. First, the
Government is actively seeking ways in which the private sector can invest in
and operate a wider range of infrastructure services, including power,
telecommunications and ports. The Government, however, has recognized that in
developing specific proposals in this area, it is important to take account of
the public interest to ensure the arrangements are efficient and cost effective.
Consequently, the Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs (EKUIN) is
coordinating work to develop guidelines and review specific proposals. A second
element of the Government's privatization strategy is to divest enterprises that
need not remain under public ownership, in a phased and orderly manner. This
would be achieved through sale of shares in the stock market as well as through
outright sale to the private sector. The Government has taken a cautious
approach in implementing this policy in view of a number of important practical
difficulties that remain to be resolved satisfactorily. These include: (a) the
transparent definition of rules for divestiture to ensure fairness in valuation
and bidding; (b) minimizing the burden on government of compensation for
retrenchment; and (c) improving the capacity of the stock market to handle
effectively large sale of PE shares. However, 52 companies have been identified
as potential candidates for issuing shares in the stock market, and as a first
step, preparations are underway to allow three cement companies to float shares
in the stock market in the near future.



-13-
Financial Sector Reforms
30.      Indonesia's progress with financial sector reforms has been
particularly impressive. A series of reforms was introduced over 1983-88 to
deregulate interest rates, replace credit ceiling with reserve money management,
and increase competition through easier entry by private domestic and foreign
banks. The reforms of October-December 1988 supported by PSDL I substantially
deregulated the financial sector entry and operating rules, and promoted the
growth of the capital market. These reforms led to dramatic changes within the
financial system. The number of intermediaries and services expanded rapidly,
while assets and deposits soared. Competition has gradually reduced
intermediation margins. The capital and bonds market also became more active,
with the volume of shares traded expanding eight-fold during 1989.
Table 4: AGGREGATE INDICATORS OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PERFORMANCE, 1983-1989
(Percent)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Financial profitability
PE profit/total assets /a             2.4    2.4    1.5    2.0    2.6    3.4
NFPE profit/total assets lb            3.0    2.0    1.2    2.6    4.0    5.9
NFPE profit/non-current assets         4.4    2.8    1.7    3.7    5.8    8.4
NFPE profit/net worth                  6.1    8.0    4.7    6.1    6.6   10.1
NFPE after tax profit margin           4.5    3.0    1.7    4.3    6.4    8.7
Number of firms                        184    184    180    177    166    161
/a Consolidated public enterprises; profits are defined before tax and
treat depreciation as cost. Assets are evaluated at current cost for
some enterprises, but for many enterprises assets are measured at
historical cost.
/b Consolidated non-financial public enterprises; profits are defined
before tax and treat depreciation as cost.
Source: Ministry of Finance and World Bank staff estimates.
31.      Over the past year, several new measures were announced, including the
phasing out of subsidized, directed credits (liquidity credits), and the
relaxation of rules limiting foreign capital from participating in the stock
market. The most notable measure was the reform of liquidity credits, announced
on January 29, 1990. By this reform, the number of areas eligible for liquidity



- 14 -
credit was sharply reduced, and even where continued, interest rates for final
borrowers were moved much closer to market rates. The reduction in the scope of
liquidity credits and the increase in the interest rates will greatly enhance
BI's ability to manage base money. The changes will improve incentives to
assess credit risk and facilitate the distribution of credit to priority users.
Segmentation in credit markets will be reduced, and new commercial banks will
expand into these sectors more rapidly. For state banks, the reforms will lead
to a stronger effort to mobilize deposits from the public, since a large share
of their portfolio has been financed through liquidity credits. The reform will
also induce greater efforts by the state banks to improve their efficiency and
ensure the quality of their loan portfolios. With this reform, Indonesia is now
among the group of developing countries with the most liberal financial system.
Interest rates are largely market determined and most credit is channelled
through the market mechanism.
32.      The soundness and stability of the financial system calls for the
strengthening of financial regulations and institutions. The Government has
already introduced several important regulations in this area such as
establishing legal lending limits on commercial bank portfolios and restricting
their net open position in foreign exchange to 251 of their capital. Bank
Indonesia has begun to improve its banking supervision with technical assistance
from the IMF and other sources. A prototype questionnaire for early detection
of potentially unsound banks has been designed and tested on a limited basis,
although this still needs to be refined and used on a broad scale. Efforts are
also underway to improve general examinations by including a greater emphasis on
management and management systems; off-balance-sheet items; evaluation of
liquidity based on appraisal of asset and liability management; and assessments
of portfolio quality based on the financial conditions of borrowers.
PART III - REMAINING AGENDA AND ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
Remaining Agenda for Private Sector Development
33.      Indonesia is emerging from a difficult but successful adjustment period
with a more robust, diversified, and competitive economy. The surge in overall
economic activity, private sector investment and exports indicates that
foundations are being laid for a period of sustained and robust growth. Despite
the strong progress to date, however, a broad agenda for further reforms remain.
The main elements of the remaining agenda are discussed below and summarized in
the policy framework presented in Annex V.
34.      Continued sound macroeconomic management.  The main macroeconomic
management task ahead is to continue improving the external and internal
financial balances in the medium term while maintaining growth. Containing and
gradually reducing the current account deficit as a share of GNP will steadily
lower the burden of Indonesia's debt and expand the economy's options in the
future. Maintaining strong policies to support non-oil export growth is central
to this strategy. These policies include maintaining a competitive exchange
rate through coordinated fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies. Public
and private savings rates will need to rise to finance the higher investment



- 15 -
rate required to sustain growth in output and non-oil exports, while offsetting
the decline in foreign savings resulting from the gradual reduction in the
current account deficit. Continued implementation of the GOI's policies in
several important areas would raise public savings and improve the fiscal
balance. This would include maintaining the priority given to public resource
mobilization, and particularly to raising non-oil ta: revenues through continued
improvements in tax administration, and the rapid implementation of the
Government's intentions to reduce the major remaining budget subsidies.
Finally, public expenditure programs will need to be carefully designed and
focused on infrastructure development and poverty alleviation.
35.      Sustaining growth while avoiding pressure on prices and the balance of
payments will require a carefully balanced monetary policy. With the ongoing
financial sector reform, the relationships between monetary variables are likely
to shift, calling for close monitoring of developments so that timely action can
be taken. The completion of the phasing out of liquidity credits announced in
January 1990 will increase the effectiveness of Bank Indonesia's monetary
instruments. Other components of the financial sector reforms are expected to
improve the efficiency of credit allocation. Continued development of
prudential regulations and supervision are of central importance to strengthen
the stability of the financial system.
36.      Further reforms in trade and domestic regulations.  Sustained expansion
of private sector investment and non-oil exports will require that GOI must
continue to push ahead with its program of structural reforms. In trade there
is scope to further reduce NTBs. Further restructuring of the economy would be
facilitated by the implementation of GOI's medium-term tariff reform, which
includes the elimination of remaining split tariffs and all surcharges, and a
gradual reduction of tariff rates. In most cases the process of restructuring
protected industries is underway.
37.      Further domestic deregulation would help reduce the remaining barriers
to the entry and mobility of private investment.  The main policy options for
future reform are to: further shorten the negative investment list by opening
additional areas to domestic and foreign investment; simplify and streamline
further the licensing system by eliminating licenses where possible (e.g.,
capacity expansion licenses) and improving coordination at the local level; and
further ease divestiture obligations of foreign investors. At the same time, a
start could be made on the more complex and longer-run issues of developing a
modern corporate legal system and reforming the factor markets, particularly
land.
38.      Strengthening financial regulations and institutions.  In the financial
sector, five main items remain as priorities: (a) continued implementation of
the phase out of liquidity credits; (b) strengthening ongoing program for the
prudential regulation of financial markets; (c) enacting updated laws governing
financial institutions and commercial relations; (d) bolstering managerial and
technical expertise in financial institutions; and (e) strengthening state banks
through improving their portfolios. The rapid pace of financial sector growth
justifies the urgent attention being given to these issues by the Government.



- 16 -
39.      Further deregulation in transport.  In the transport sector, GOI has
made concerted efforts to deregulate and remove impediments that previously
caused widespread inefficiencies. These reforms have focused initially on the
maritime sector and have resulted in some impressive improvements in performance
and quality of service. However, there is still scope for improvement,
particularly for the ports, where efficiency is constrained by structural and
management problems. More recently, GOI has focused on the land transportation
system, in particular road transportation. The costs of road transportation
remain significantly higher than they need be, reflecting the poor standard and
condition of the road network, inappropriate taxation and user charges, and road
traffic and transport regulations that are restrictive and unevenly applied.
The Government is committed to developing a transport system that is able to
meet the nation's growing and increasingly sophisticated transport needs quickly
and efficiently. Consequently, GOI is formulating a series of policies designed
to establish a modern and coherent framework of laws, regulations and taxes for
road transport; strengthen central and regional transport departments; and
improve transport sector policy formulation and planning.
40.      Moving ahead with public enterprise reforms.  A major challenge for GOI
will be to proceed steadily with the implementation of its longer-term PE reform
and privatization program. The subsequent stages will need to concentrate on:
(a) preparing viable PEs that will not remain in the public sector for
divestiture; (b) defining a core of enterprises that will stay public and
initiating the reforms needed to further improve their performance. A more
efficient set of core PEs would improve the availability and lower the cost of
essential inputs and services (such as power and telecommunications) for the
private sector; and (c) liquidating unviable commercial PEs.
Medium-term Outlook
41.      Growth and macroeconomic stability.  With continued successful
implementation of the ongoing measures and further progress with the unfinished
agenda, the outlook for the medium term is that a real growth rate of 72 p.a.
for the non-oil economy will be sustained. The projected pace of growth will
require improvements in economic efficiency and a strong investment effort.
Accordingly, substantial buildups of preduction capacity in the agriculture and
tanufacturing sectors, as well as supporting improvements in physical
infrastructure are incorporated into our projections (see Table 5; and Annex I,
Table 1). Fixed investment is projected to rise from 212 of GDP in 1989 to 272
by 1995. The recent surge in private investment is expected to continue through
1990, growing by 14X in real terms, and then expand by an average of 12Z p.a.
over the next five years. Following a period of restraint during the Eighties,
public investment will also need to grow at a relatively fast pace in the 19909
(8-92 p.a.) to finance the physical infrastructure needed to support private
sector growth, develop human resources and support poverty reduction programs.
42.      Implications for employment and poverty.  The projected pace and
pattern of growth would allow Indonesia to employ its growing labor force at
higher levels of productivity and income. The manufacturing sector is expected
to absorb a much larger share of employment than in the past, reflecting rapid
growth (112 p.a.), particularly in relatively labor-intensive, export-oriented



- 17 -
activities. The bulk of new employment, however, will still come in agriculture
(growing by 3.5Z p.a.) and services (expanding by 6-7% p.a.) as both sectors
become more diversified and productive. Such growth rates would also lead to
further substantial reductions in poverty. Nevertheless, continued large
reductions in the incidence of poverty will also require specific measures to
improve labor absorption in the services sector, boost employment prospects in
the Outer Islands (particularly the eastern areas) and target public
expenditures, especially in social and basic services, on those activities of
greatest potential benefit to the poor.
Table 5: SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1989-1995
Estimated         Proiected
1989       1990        1990-95
Real Growth Rates (Z p.a.)
GDP                                         7.4         6.7           5.9
Non-oil GDP                                 8.1         7.3           7.1
Non-oil Exports /a                         15.9         8.2          11.3
Fixed Investment                           13.0        12.0          10.9
- Public                                   5.5         8.5           8.6
- Private                                 17.4        13.8          12.0
Economic Structure
Non-oil manufacturing/GDP /b               14.3        15.2          19.2
Non-oil exports/total merchandise
exports                                  60.1        57.5          75.7
Fixed investment/GDP                       21.1        22.0          27.5
Macroeconomic Balance (Zi iC
Current account/GNP                        -1.8        -1.8          -1.5
Overall public sector balance/GDP          -1.5        -0.9          -1.1
MLT debt service/exports                   32.0        30.7          23.0
Memo items: Ic
Oil prices (S/barrel) /d                   17.9        21.5          20.5
Official reserves (in months of imports)   3.0          3.0           4.0
la Goods only.
/b In constant 1983 prices.
Ic End of period.
/d Based on World Bank's revised base case projections.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics and World Bank staff estimates.



- 18 -
Balance of Payments Outlook, External Financing Requirements and
Creditworthiness
43.      Balance of payments outlook and external financing requirements.  The
expansion of non-oil exports and the sustained improvement in domestic resource
mobilization will provide the underpinnings for rapid sustainable grcwth in the
1990s. In the short term, though, higher growth and the expansion of the
private sector in particular, will lead to higher import demand. (See Annex 1,
Table 2 for detailed balance of payments projections.) Import growth in nominal
terms has risen from an average of 142 p.a. during 1986/87-1988/89 to 212 in
1989190 and is expected to rise further to 222 in 1990/91. At the same time,
the growth of non-oil export earnings has been decelerating because of declines
in non-oil commodity prices. These factors are expected to cause a significant
widening of the non-oil trade balance during 1990/91. The net impact of this on
the current account deficit, however, depends on the underlying oil price
assumption. During the first six months of 1990/91 (April-September 1990),
Indonesia obtained an average oil price of US$18.3/barrel. The World Bank's
revised base case for commodity price outlook (October 1990) projects oil prices
to average US$2f/barrel during the second-half of 1990, and then decline to
US$21/barrel in the first half of 1991. Using these assumptions, the average
oil price for Indonesia in 1990/91 works out at US$21.5/barrel. This in turn
implies that the current account deficit during 1990/91 will be around
US$1.8 billion (1.8Z of GNP). As oil prices return to their long-term trend
there is an initial slight worsening of the balance of payments. But as the
world demand for Indonesia's non-oil exports regains momentum, the current
account deficit narrows gradually over the medium term. Thus, non-oil exports
are projected to maintain a healthy growth of 11t p.a. in real terms over the
next five years. As a result, the current account deficit will decline steadily
to around 1.52 of GNP by 1995.
44.      These deficits would require a level of capital inflows that would be
well within the limits of what Indonesia should expect from official and private
sources while maintaining prudent debt management (see Table 6). During
1990191, Indonesia will require continued official balance of payments support,
albeit at reduced levels, for two principal reasons. First, as explained above,
there is a need to meet the rapid growth of private sector imports that have
been buoyed by the recent deregulation measures and the resultant resurgence in
private investment activity, much of it directed towards the creation of new
export capacity. And second, there is a need to maintain an adequate cushion of
reserves in view of Indonesia's open capital account. Although Indonesia has
been successful in attracting much higher levels of private capital inflows, and
is also borrowing larger sums from commercial sources, in view of the still high
debt service ratio, Indonesia will continue to require official quick-disbursing
assistance, although at significantly reduced levels than in the past, to meet
the balance of payments gap. The need for special assistance in 1990191 is
estimated at about US$1.2 billion, compared to US$1.6 billion in 1989/90 and
US$2.0 billion in 1988/89. The Government's financing plan indicates that Japan
will provide US$700 million, the Asian Development Bank US$250 million, and the



- 19 -
World Bank is expected to provide US$250 million.61  As in the past, this
assistance is linked to the adjustment program that is being implemented by the
Government.
45.      Implications for creditworthiness.  Indoneuia's external debt burden
rose sharply in the mid-1980's largely due to factors beyond GOI's control,
especially the depreciation of the US Dollar and the fall in oil prices.
Reflecting the strong economic performance, a more stable external environment
and supportive donor policies, the debt service ratio has been declining since
1988. Nevertheless, the size of the external debt remains substantial (the
stock of MLT debt is estimated at US$47.5 billion as of end-1989) and continued
Table 6: EXTERNAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES
(annual averages in USS billion)
Actual                Proiected
1987/88-                        1991192-
1988/89   1989190    1990/91   1995/96
Requirements                                7.3       6.0         8.7      10.8
Current account deficit                     1.8       1.6         1.8       2.2
(of which interest payments)            (2.9)      (3.1)      (3.2)      (3.3)
Principal repayments of private MLT loans 0.8         0.9         1.1       1.8
Principal repayments of public MLT loans  4.2         4.5         4.8       4.9
Increase in net foreign assets              0.5      -1.0         1.0       1.9
Sources                                     7.3       6.0         8.7      10.8
Direct foreign investment (net)             0.3       0.6         0.9       1.3
Disbursements of private MLT loans          0.9       1.3         1.9       2.5
Short-term and other capital (net) la    -0.6        -2.1        -0.2       0.0
Disbursements of public MLT loans           6.7       6.2         6.1       7.0
of which:
Project aid                              2.4        2.4         2.9       4.6
Special assistance /b                    1.6        1.6         1.2       0.0
Other LS                                  2.7       2.2         2.0       2.4
La   Includes errors and omissions, and valuation adjustments.
lb   Fast-disbursing program aid and local-cost financing, excluding grants.
/c   Import-related credits, untied commercial credits, and credits for
LPG and paraxylene projects.
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
61 In addition, about US$75 million of special assistance is expected from
other donors.



- 20 -
prudent debt management is essential. The projected reduction in the current
account deficit will need to be a key element in Indonesia's future debt
management. Based on a continued strong performance of non-oil exports and
continued prudent debt management, the debt service ratio is projected to
decline further over the medium term, falling from 32Z in 1989 to 232 by 1995.
As a result, It.donesia is expected to remain creditworthy, ensuring access to
adequate levels of external funding from both official and private sources.
Dealing with Uncertainties in the External Environment
46.      The review of Indonesia's medium-term prospects and external capital
requiremwnts presented above is subject to major uncertainties in the external
environmenit. The main uncertainties relate to oil prices, non-oil commodity
prices, wo,rld trade, world inflation, international currency fluctuations and
world interest rates. Being a net exporter of oil, the current short-term
outlook for oil prices is favorable to Indonesia. As explained above, the
macroeconomic projections allow for a substantial rise in oil prices for the
immediate future, but assume that oil prices will return to their long-term
trend following a resolution of the present Middle East crisis. It is possible
that even higher oil prices than projected here might prevail. In the short
term at least, Indonesia would tend to benefit from this development. However,
the magnitude and duration of this gain would depend not only on the underlying
oil price assumptions but also on the accompanying offsetting factors,
especially lower non-oil commodity prices, lower demand for Indonesia's non-oil
exports and possible depreciation of the US dollar against other major world
currencies. For Indonesia, these offsetting losses could be substantial.
47.      At this stage it is impossible to do more than speculate on the size
and duration of higher oil prices and windfall gains. For illustrative
purposes, however, three alternative oil price assumptions are considered.
Tnese alternative scenarios yield oil windfall gains ranging from US$1.6 billion
during 1990/91 to a total of US$6.4 billion over 1990/91-1992/93. These
scenarios are summarized in Table 7 below along with the corresponding policy
actions that could be considered by the Government ir. each case.
O    The short-term response.  Given the present low level of reserves
(which, at end August stood at US$6.4 billion, or about 3.0 months of
imports, compared with a desired level of 5 months), the immediate
windfall gain (Scenario I) needs to be used solely to build up
reserves. This will provide Indonesia with necessary flexibility in
dealing with downside risks, especially in view of Indonesia's open
capital account and a liberal financial system. Even if the oil price
increase was sustained for 12 months (Scenario II) and the windfall
were to exceed US$3.0 billion, the primary use of the windfall would
need to be for reserve accumulation, with a secondary option of
reducing modestly the otherwise high level of required commercial
borrowing and import-related credits.



- 21 -
o    The lonaer-term response.  If the oil price increases were to be
sustained into the longer-term, and the magnitude of the windfall
approached or exceeded US$6 billion over 1990191-1992/93, the range of
options would broaden, including reduced borrowing from official
sources, possible prepayment of high-cost debt and selective increases
in public expenditures. Consideration of these longer-term options
would need to be deferred for at least another year, however, in view
of the high degree of uncertainty about the magnitude and duration of
the oil price increase.
Table 7: ALTERNTIVE OIL PRICE StN_RIOS A PLCY IPTIW
Oil Price Assumptions |  Windfall Gain /a
Alternative          (US/barrel)         (US8 billion)           Policy Options
Scenarios                       --
90/91  91/92  92/93  90/91  91/92  92/9B
Base Case        21.5   20.6   17.4                         Maintain reserves at
8 months of imports.
I - Short         26.2   20.6   17.4    1.6                  Rebuild reserves to
Ouration                                                  8.6 months of imports
Price                                                     by 1990/91.
Increase
Rebui Id reserves to
II - A more        28.2   24.6   17.4    1.6   1.5      _     B.6 months of imorts by
Sustained                                                 1990/91; roduce coomrcial
Price                                                     borrowing and import-
Increase                                                  related credits.
(12-month)
Rebuild reserves to
III - Longer-Term   26.2   27.7   24.0    1.6   2.5    2.8    8. monthes of Imports by
Price                                                     1991/92; reduce borrowing,
Increase                                                  especially of comercial
and Import-related
credits; selectively
prepay high cost debt;
and raise public expendi-
tur. on high-roturn
import-intensive projects.
/a Measures only the direct effect of higher oil prices; offsetting loses could reduce these gains
by over 405 each year. For example, an associated 10S depreciation of the US dollar against
other major International currencies would add USS400 million to the debt service burden; a
reduction In world growth by one percentage point would lower non-oil export earnings by
U3115260 ml lIion.
PART IV - BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT
48.       The Bank's country assistance strategy for Indonesia, and our
operational support activities, are organized around four central themes. These
fot.r themes, which mirror the core objectives of the Government's development
strategy are: growth with stability, wider participation, poverty reduction and
sustainable development. The focus of Bank support within each of these themes,
and particularly our support of private sector development, are outlined below.



- 22 -
Growth with Stability
49.      The primary goal of Indonesia's medium-term development strategy is to
achieve a rate of economic growth sufficient to absorb the expected large
increases in the labor force and raise standards of living of the population,
while maintaining macroeconomic stability. A key element in this strategy is to
promote the private sector as the main engine of economic growth. Bank support
is focused on assisting the Government's efforts in three main areas:
o    Macroeconomic management, including prudent management of fiscal,
monetary and exchange rate policy, and continued careful management of
external debt, to ensure a stable macroeconomic environment conducive
to growth;
o    Structural adjustment, including the remaining agenda of reform in the
areas of trade policy and domestic regulations, prudential regulation
of financial markets, public enterprise reform, and the initiation of
work on the corporate legal framework, to further improve the
incentives for private sector development and to ensure efficient
growth; and
o    Supportive infrastructure, including power and energy,
telecommunications, transport and urban development, to ensure that
bottlenecks in the availability of infrastructure services do not
impede the the momentum of progress already achieved.
Wider Participation
50.      The concept of wider participation in the development process focuses
on the significant changes that are expected to occur in the respective roles of
the various agents of growth and development in Indonesia over the coming
decade. This includes not only an expanded role for the private sector, but
also the recognition that future development will need to involve: (a) the
gradual devolution of responsibility to provincial and lower levels of
government for the design and implementation of development programs; (b) the
increasing participation of NGOs and other community-based groups in the
provision of social services, to augment the role of government agencies; and
(c) an expansion of opportunities for women, as well as men, to participate more
fully in the development process. In addition to our direct support of private
sector development, which is outlined in greater detail below, Bank assistance
for the wider participation objective is focused on:
o    Strengthening local governments, with particular emphasis on building
capacity to identify, prepare and implement projects and programs as
well as for their operations and maintainance.
O    Community and beneficiary participation, including greater attention to
the potential role for NGOs and other community-based groups in the
design and implementation of projects; and



- 23 -
o    Women in development, including the expansion of key social services
important to women, and increasing efforts in the design of projects to
enhance women's opportunities for wage employment and other income-
generating activities.
Poverty Reduction
51.      As noted above, the prompt and effective response of the Government to
the series of external shocks since the early 1980s, including the restoration
of growth and the protection of poverty-related budget expenditures, has
contributed to further progress in reducing the incidence of poverty during the
difficult period of stabilization and structural reform. There are still,
however, about 30 million people in the country or 172 of the population who
remain below the poverty line--and many millions more who are only marginally
above that line. The objective is to reduce poverty to no more than 102 by the
year 2000. In addition to supporting faster growth, therefore, the Bank's
lending and economic and sector work (ESW) programs are now focused in a more
targeted way on:
o    Access of the poor to key social services, including greater attention
to policies and expenditures that will improve the access of the poor
to social services such as health and nutrition, basic education and
safe water and sanitation; and
o    Access of the poor to productive resources, including more balanced
regional growth focused on improved access to credit, land and
technical inputs, with particular attention to income-generating
activities for poor women.
Sustainable Development
52.      Changing circumstances, and the development process itself, have given
rise to increasing concern within the Government regarding the sustainability of
Indonesia's development program over the longer term. The pace and pattern of
economic growth, for example, have led to issues of natural resources management
and environmental protection, the importance to private sector development of a
well trained and educated labor force, and the need for a better balance between
O&M and investment expenditures so that the productivity of past and future
additions to the capital stock can be sustained over the longer term. Bank
support is focused on:
o    Natural resources manaRement and environmental protection, including
policy and institutional strengthening in the forestry sector and in
the management of land and water resources, and improved incentives and
enforcement procedures for the control of industrial pollution;
o    Human resources development, including the expansion of secondary and
tertiary education and technicallprofessional training programs (such
as science and technology and accountancy development); and



- 24 -
o    Rehabilitation and maintenance, including greater attention to issues
of cost recovery in support of improved O&M funding, and rehabilitation
investment projects where needed.
O    Institutional development, including support for civil service reform
and staff training and development to ensure that key agencies and
institutions are able to support the implementation of more sustainable
development strategies in the key sectors.
Bank Support for Private Sector Development
53.      Within the broader framework of the Bank's country assistance strategy
for Indonesia, our support of private sector development has encompassed a range
of both direct and indirect interventions in three key areas: the macroeconomic
environment and incentives framework; the expansion and restructuring of
productive capacity; and supportive investments in physical infrastructure and
human resources development.
54.      Macroeconomic environment and incentives framework.  The Bank's
analytical support and policy dialogue have assisted the Government in defining
appropriate policy responses to emerging issues of macroeconomic management.
Since the collapse of oil prices in 1986, Bank support has focused on five major
policy areas: (a) exchange rate management for the restoration of external
balances and to ensure the competitiveness of non-oil exports; (b) prudent
fiscal and monetary policies to reduce aggregate demand and control inflationary
pressures; (c) tax administration and cost recovery for government services to
improve public resource mobilization; (d) expenditure priorities, including the
protection of poverty-related funding, to help minimize the social costs of
adjustment; and (e) external debt management and borrowing strategy to minimize
future costs while enhancing creditworthiness. We will continue to monitor
these issues very closely and maintain our dialogue with the Government during
the coming years. In the near term, particular attention will be given to
issues arising from the crisis in the Middle East and appropriate management of
the windfall gain from higher oil prices.
55.      Bank support has also been instrumental in assisting the Government to
restructure the sources of growth in the economy, and to restore more rapid
growth, by improving the incentives and regulatory framework for private sector
development. Analytical support has focused on (a) trade policy reforms to
improve the efficiency of investment and increase the competitiveness of
exports; (b) industrial deregulation to encourage increased investment by both
foreign and domestic firms; (c) financial sector reforms to improve allocative
efficiency and reduce the costs of intermediation; (d) public enterprise reform
to reduce the burden on government budgets from investments in sectors where
private sector participation should be encouraged; and (e) the corporate legal
framework to strengthen to capacity of the relevant institutions and laws to
respond to the growing challenges of industrial, commercial and financial sector
development. The Bank will continue to work closely with Government officials
to complete the remaining elements of this reform agenda, and will provide
technical assistance as needed to develop the Government's own analytical



- 25 -
capacity in these areas. Specific work is accordingly planned on key elements
of the remaining agenda including land management, labor markets and
environmental regulations.
56.      Expansion and restructuring of productive capacity.  Past Bank support
for the expansion of productive capacity in the private sector has focused
primarily on ensuring the availability of credit through the banking system,
targeted to entrepreneurs of varying size - including small and medium-size
firms and micro-enterprises (e.g., through the Kupedes program which provides
very small credits - with market-determined interest rates - at the village
level). Since 1986, in response to the structural reform effort, the Bank's
credit operations have shifted more toward the requirements generated by changes
in the incentives and regulatory environment, including industrial
restructuring, export development and agro-processing operations. As a result
of policy reforms in the financial sector, however, which is now one of the most
liberal among the developing countries, we expect a further shift to occur.
Future operations will focus more directly on the remaining issues of financial
intermediation, including support for prudential regulation to ensure the
soundness of the system over the long term, and a limited number of operations
focused on those few areas where further improvement is needed in access to
credit on appropriate terms, particularly at the small-borrower end of the
spectrum.
57.      The Bank has also supported the restructuring of public enterprises to
improve economic efficiency and reduce the burden of these enterprises on the
budget, with a particular focus on issues of pricing policy and cost recovery.
Bank ESW reports on the fertilizer industry and the power and energy sector, for
example, are contributing to improvements in pricing policies, while planned
lending operations will assist in the restructuring and expansion of physical
capacity. As noted below, Bank support will continue to assist with the reform
of major individual public enterprises, such as the state electric company (PLN)
and the state telecommunications enterprise (PERUMTEL) through a combination of
ESW and lending activities. In line with recent Government initiatives, we are
also exploring issues related to an expanded role for the private sector in the
provision of public services.
58.      Supportive infrastructure and human resources development.  The Bank
has a long history of involvement with the development of supportive
infrastructure in Indonesia. In the past, about 40S of our lending has gone to
direct support of infrastructure investments in power, roads and other transport
facilities, irrigation, municipal water supply and sanitation. Over the next
three years, in response to the higher than expected growth of the private
sector, combined with the emergence of potential bottlenecks in the availability
of key services, we are planning a substantial increase in lending for
infrastructure development, increasing its share in the lending program to
nearly 50?. In the power sector, where past support has led to both a major
expansion of capacity and a significant improvement in the management and
financial performance of PLN, we will continue to provide lending support for
the development of generating capacity and the expansion of the transmission and
distribution system, including rural electricity. In telecommunications, a



- 26 -
major sector review has been completed which identifies ways to enhance the
efficiency and productivity of the sector, and the results are being
incorporated into the design of ongoing and future lending operations.
59.      In transport, the Bank's past involvement focussed primarily on the
expansion and maintenance of the road network, with some financial assistance
for national ports development and technical assistance for the railways. Based
on recent ESW, the Bank's policy dialogue has focused on the need for a more
coherent strategy and policy framework for this sector. Following good progress
with reform in the maritime subsector, we are now planning to expand lending for
the development of national ports. In the roads subsector, the policy dialogue
includes attention to the role of the private sector, as well as further
improvements in planning mechanisms and O&M. Bank support for the urban sector
is quite advanced, with the concept of integrated urban infrastructure
development programs now under implementation in most of the larger urban
centers. Further progress in key policy areas, including the devolution of
authority to local governments for the development and maintenance of urban
infrastructure and the establishment of an effective funding mechanism, is being
supported through a number of lending operations.
60.      To ensure the availability of skilled labor, the Bank's lending and ESW
program includes substantial support for the improvement of education quality at
all levels, the expansion of secondary education (now that universal primary
school education has been achieved), and the extension of non-formal education
focused on improvements in literacy. In addition, targeted support will
continue to be provided for key technical and professional skills required by
the dynamic growth and development of the private sector, including science and
technology training, accountancy and financial sector skills development and
human resources development in particular sectors, such as agriculture. A
number of training modes for use in the private sector are being developed under
two on-going projects, while a sector report on employment and training issues
is expected to be completed shortly. These initiatives are aimed at assisting
the Government in developing an overall training strategy.
PART V - THE PROPOSED LOAN
Loan Obiectives and Rationale
61.      As reviewed in Part IV, the World Bank has maintained a close and
constructive dialogue with GOI on the ongoing adjustment program and policy
reforms related to the private sector. Actions taken during 1986/87 and 1987/88
were supported by two trade policy adjustment loans (TPALs I and II). New
measures implemented in 1988189 were supported by the first private sector
development loan (PSDL I). As noted, the implementation of the PSDL I has also
gone well and this has helped to consolidate the achievements supported by
TPALs I and II. More importantly, GOI has continued to make good progress on
the *areas for follow-up' identified in the policy framework for PSDL I. The
objectives of the proposed loan of US$250 million equivalent are to accelerate



- 27 -
the expansion of the private sector by: (a) supporting the implementation of
reforms undertaken by the Government during 1989 and 1990; (b) assisting GOI to
maintain a satisfactory pace of economic growth that is consistent with external
and internal financial stability; and (c) maintaining the policy dialogue on
further reforms to promote the efficiency and longer-term viability of the
economy. These objectives would be achieved in part through support to the
balance of payments provided by the proposed loan and in part through our
ongoing dialogue on policy issues. The loan would directly contribute to the
financing needs for quick disbursing assistance and would provide the basis for
mobilizing a targeted level of US$1.2 billion new commitment of quick disbursing
assistance from official donors. This level of special assistance is necessary
for financing the balance of payments and underpinning the reform program for
1990/91.
62.      The justification for the proposed loan is provided by actions already
taken by the Government over the past year in the key follow-up areas specified
in PSDL I--macroeconomic management, trade policy, domestic regulations, public
enterprises, and financial sector. The Government's commitment to pursue
prudent macroeconomic policies and continued structural reforms was reconfirmed
during negotiations, as indicated by the letter of development policy
(Annex IV). The specific areas for follow-up actions for the next year, within
the broader agenda set out in Part III, are presented below (see paras. 66-67).
Loan Administration
63.      Procurement.  Both pri'rate and public sector imports would be eligible
for financing. Contracts for goods and services estimated to cost US$5 million
or more each, would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank Guidelines and available for inspection by Bank
missions. Public sector contracts under US$5 million each would be awarded on
the basis of normal procurement practices of the purchaser which are acceptable
to the Bank. Private sector purchases below the ICB threshold would follow
established commercial practices. As in the case of the earlier adjustment
loans, the reimbursement of eligible import expenditures for private sector
imports will be based on documentation prepared by the Societe Generale de
Surveillance S.A. (SGS) in the course of their customs inspection services. The
SGS is one of the firms qualified by the Bank to provide trade verification
services in Bank operations. In the system established in Indonesia under
INPRES 4/1985, the SGS certificate provides verification of the goods being
imported including the quality and the quantity of imports and the applicable
prevailing export market price in the country of supply.
64.      Disbursement.  The proposed loan of US$250 million equivalent would be
available for disbursement upon loan effectiveness and would be used to
reimburse 100? foreign expenditures for eligible imports for which payments are
made after the date of loan signing. The list of ineligible imports for the
purposes of this loan would be standard, i.e., goods intended for military or
paramilitary purposes, or for luxury consumption; goods financed from other
official multilateral or bilateral sources; uranium; and goods procured under
contracts of less than US$100,000. As noted above, the SGS certificate provides
verification of shipment of goods and their value as well as other information



- 28 -
needed to ensure compliance with eligibility requirements for purposes of the
Bank loan. Disbursement for eligible import expenditures would be based on
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for imports valued at less than US$1 million;
for imports valued above this amount, full documentation would be provided.
Applications for withdrawals based on SOEs would be submitted in amounts not
less than US$5 million and supporting documentatior. would be retained by Bank
Indonesia. All of the proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be
disbursed by July 31, 1991.
65.      Accounts and Audits.  Bank Indonesia would maintain loan accounts and
documentation, as in the case of the three previous adjustment loans. Audit
reviews of the loan accounts and supporting documentation of TPALs I and I1 have
already been completed while the review for PSDL I will be completed shortly.
For the Second Private Sector Development Loan, an audit will be carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within nine months of the closing of
the Indonesian fiscal year in which final disbursements under the loan are made.
Monitoring and Follow Up
66.      As was the case with the previous quick-disbursing loans, the Bank will
continue to monitor closely, through frequent consultations with the Government,
progress on implementation of the recent policy measures and follow-up actions.
The remaining agenda for private sector development was discussed in part III
and summarized in the policy framework presented in Annex V. In determining the
priorities within this broad agenda, a number of principles will be important.
First, sound macroeconomic management will remain a key prerequisite for
improving the incentives for private sector activities. Second, it is important
for GOI to ensure that recent reforms are properly implemented, so that benefits
are fully realized by the private sector. Third, GOI needs to continue with the
process of regulatory reform. In some areas--such as removal of NTBs, tariff
rationalization and export, restrictions, public enterprise reform, and improving
banking supervision and legislation--the priorities for the coming year are
clear. However, in others--such as revising local regulations, the corporate
legal framework--the next step is to complete ongoing studies andlor undertake
further analysis, in preparation for future reforms.
67.      We will continue to work closely with GOI, providing appropriate policy
analysis and advice on a timely basis, to make progress as rapid and broad-based
as possible. The core areas of actions for the immediate future would include:
o    Prudent macroeconomic management during 1990191 to: (a) maintain a
primary surplus in the Central Government's budget; (b) pursue
supportive monetary policies to avoid pressure on the balance of
payments and prices; and (c) avoid any appreciation of the real
effective exchange rate. Given the projected external environment,
these policies are expected to hold the current account deficit to 2-3%
of GNP. Inflation will need to be contained at below 102 over the next
12 months.



- 29 -
o    Implementation of GOI's program for public resource mobilization,
including strengthened tax administration, reduction of subsidies on
fertilizer and fuel, and improvement in cost recovery for public
services.
O    Prudent external borrowing strategy, including a strict limit on
import-related credits, scrutinizing proposals for large projects, and
primarily using windfalls from higher oil prices to strengthen foreign
exchange reserves, support private sector imports and/or reduce
external borrowing.
o    Further progress on reducing NTBs, ^urther steps in tariff reform
including the elimination/reduction of remaining split tariffs and
surcharges, and taking steps to reduce export restrictions. Reduce the
proportion of domestic production covered by NTBs by 3-5 percentage
points.
O    Continued relaxation and simplification of the regulatory framework.
Open up new sectors to domestic and foreign investment, relax ownership
and other restrictions on foreign investment. Review local
regulations, land and labor laws, and the corporate legal framework.
o    Continue to implement GOI's public enterprise reform program described
above. Strengthen institutional mechanism for implementation and
monitoring of reform; further actions on divestiture and liquidation;
and preparation of corporate plans to strengthen enterprise performance
and accountability.
o    Ensure satisfactory implementation of liquidity credit phase out;
strengthen the Government's capacity for bank and capital market
supervision; introduce new legislation to codify and simplify the
regulatory framework for central bank, commercial banks, insurance
companies and pension funds; and prepare restructuring programs for
selected state banks.
The Government's commitment to this policy agenda has been obtained through a
letter of policy statement (Annex IV).
Program Benefits and Risks
68.      The policy measures taken by GOI during 1989-90 will boost private
sector development, by: (a) providing a stable macroeconomic environment;
(b) reducing distortions in the trade regime; (c) improving the efficiency of
the public enterprise sector by selective divestiture and enterprise
restructuring, thereby lowering the cost of publicly provided goods and
services; (d) promoting a more efficient, competitive, and stable financial
system. The benefits of the ongoing adjustment process are evident in the
recent performance of the economy, especially the strong growth of the non-oil
economy, non-oil exports, investment and manufacturing activity. In all of
these areas, the private sector is now playing a much larger role than in the
early 1980s. The principal risk is that the sweeping nature of these reforms
could encounter domestic opposition as they are implemented and extended. This



- 30 -
risk is offset by the positive responses to the earlier reforms, the program's
ability to reconcile poverty alleviation objective with growth and adjustment,
and the Government's demonstrated coumitment to carry out difficult and
sensitive reforms.
PART VI - RELATIONS WITH IMP
69.      The latest IMU  Consultation Report was issued on April 10, 1990.  GOI
has not had any standby or extended financing arrangements with the IMF since
1973. The Goveranent's last purchase from the IMF was for SDR 463 million in
May 1987 under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF). This purchase
increased Indonesia's total outstanding IMF obligations to SDR 463 million at
ti.e end of 1989. In concluding the Article IV consultations with Indonesia in
May 1990, the Fund's Executive Board strongly endorsed Indonesia's strategy, and
in particular the policies being undertaken to diversify the economy and
strengthen growth. Effective May 8, 1988, 001 has accepted Article VIII Status.
PART VII - REZOCMENDATION
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 23, 1990



- 31 -
Page 1 of2
Tald 1: I=Y MCROBCONOMIC INDIC'ATItS
Actual,        Prelnni                      Prle
198    1986   1987   1988   19119   1990    I        199M    1993    194   199
GDPgrouhbrate                   03     S9      5       5.6    7.4    6.7      59      5.     5A      S9      6A
Non-oil GDP gowth rte           4.2    6.1     59      73      8.     73      7.0    7.1    7.1      71      7.0
ON? gowth raft                  0.8    7.1    S.1    5.9    7.4    6.8    63          64     5.6    6.0    6.4
GNP/capta growth rate          -2.9    5.0     3       3.8    5A      4.      4.5    4.6    3.8    42        4.6
Cousumptioaplta growt  te       4.5    2.8     L5      2.1    39      43      33      2.5    2.6    3.6    3.9
Total DOD &                    23.0   382    47.4   47.7   47.5   484    503    S3.5   563    60.7   64.5
DODMOS c                      115.9  251.   239.6  2192   182   163.1  1532   151.5  144.7  141.6  1362
DOD/GS 1d                      843   194.   217.8   1992   171.7  15.8   142.7  140.5  135.7   1332   1286
DOD/GDP                        242    47.8   62.6   574    50.5   47.6   45.7   44.4   429    422    409
Debt saevc (US$ bllioo)         33      5.8    7.0    7.9    82       9.1    9.1    9.6   103    10.1   109
Debt servleXOS                 16.8   38.0   35.S   362    32.0   30.7   27.6   27.1   26.5   23.7   23.0
Interc/XoGS                     7.5   16A4   144    13.9   122    10.9    9.7    92          84      79      7.6
lntertiGS                       5.4   127    13.0   12.7   113    10.1    9.1    8.5    7.8    7.4    7.2
Interea/ODP                     1.6    3.1    3.7    3.6    33        32      29      2.7    2.5    2.4    23
Gross InvestmentlOD)           29.1   23.0   22.5   222    23.4   242    25.0   262    27.6   28.    294
Fied Investmea/tl)D            259    20.1   19.1   20.0   21.1   22.0   233    24.8   26.1   26.9   27.5
Domestic SaWvlgiDP             26.4   224A   250    25.5   269    27.    2S.1   28.6   29.7   30.7   31.5
National Sa-ingspGD?           2246   17.5   192    19.9   21.6   22.5    232    244    25.9   27.1   27.9
Marginal Nationa Savn  Rate      &       /a   S03    45.7   40.    35.8   343    44.1   48.6   43.7   40.8
Public lnestmceutD             12.7    8.8    7.8    82        7.8    82      8.6     89     9.1    9.1    93
Publc SavIn/DP R                82     49      4.8    5.0    6.1    73        7.1    7.0    73       7.8    82
Pdvate InvestmentD?            132    113    113    11.8   133    38    14.7   159    17.0   17.8   182
Prate Saving/DPt a             144    12.6   144    14.9   1S.5   152    16.1   174    18.6    193    19.7
Prvate investmenloai invasment  5t.0    562    59.1   59.1   62.    62.8   63.1   642    65.1   66.0   662
ICOR 4g                                 5.0    3.9    4.0    3.6    3.1    3.1        .1    3.4    3.7    3.9
Goverment RevenuODD fi         18.1   1S.z   17.0   15.7   172        8.A   18.0   16.6   169    17.1   173
Cvernment _     daDP&    22.4   1Ss   1t89    182    18.0             87    19.4    t.4   18.4    182    182
Deddt (-) orSurplus (+) /DPan    -43    -3.6   -1.9   -2.5   408    4.3    -L4    -1B    -1.5    -tl1   -09
Export growto ate             -133     48      6.6    6.3   10.7    5.0    72         6.7    3.0    3.9    S.4
Non-oil expwt   th mte         -2.0    4.1   253    14.5   15.9    82    14.1   1SA    1L1           8.7     73
ExportlsGD?                    20.0   18l    252    25.4   26.6   28.5   29.1   28.7   29.1   292    29A
Import grwth rate               33   -173      0.8    5.3   14.6   10.5    6.6    7.S    82          8.3    74
Non-oil import gotb rate       142   -13.6    5.0    7.8   182    14.7    8.1         92     9.6    93       8.1
ImportalDP                     23.9   18.7   216    22.1   22.9   24.9   26.0   26.5   269    272    27.2
Cumnt acot (138 bilon)         -73     42    -1.7   .1.9   -1.6   -1.8   -2.0   -23    -2.1   -22    -2.3
Curmt accunt/GDP               -7.7   -53    -23    -23    -17    -18    -1.8   -1.9   -1L6    -LS    -1.S
Terms of 7Tde Index           110.1   62.4   71.6   69.7   72.9   75.8   73.5   71.6   752    781    79.7
Oi price (US$Ahb)              332      25    17.6   1S.1   17.9   2L5    20.5   17.4   184    19.S   204
& Balace of paymentS and budget dat are for fina yae  (startng Apri 1) Other indicators are torcaendardear  AU rwth rates ae in
rea (mta  price) terns
I Debt oueanding and disbured.
IC Ezjxntof goods and sasvicm.
14 Impor of tgoodsand serA.
I Marginal National Savings Rate h negave In thes yea
L These ae snationar to UdomW savgs.p.
Ig Fhv yea avem  one yea lag. lbe proted dse In ICOR reflects the impact of new inauur   invutmet. The ICOR valU sti
rmain bdow hItordal la   of the 1980s, Inicat  signicant edciency improvements
ai Cenral Govment only.



- 32 -
Page 2 t2
2abI.2. BALANCE Or PAYMENTS h
(USS bIion at current pries)
Actuals         Pradlmiay                   Proe-ction
1982   1986   1987   1968    198    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
A.ExporsofGoods4& NFS        19.0   14.4   19.2   212    25.1   29.0   32.3   34.6   383    42.0   463
1. Mechandise (FOB)       18.7   13.7   18.1   19.7   23.S   27.1   30.2   322    356    392    433
2. Non-factor sevices      0.3    0.7   L        1.5    1.6    1.9    2.1    2.4    2.7    2.8         30
B. Imponsof Goods& NFS       22.6   14.9   164    18.4   21.    25.3   2B9    32.0   35.4   39.0   42.9
1. Merchandise (CIF)      20A    12.7   14.2   1S.7   19.1   22.6   25.9   28.7   318    3S.2   38
2. Non-factors arvk        2.0    2.2    2.2    2.7    2.5    2.7    3.0    33           3.6    3.8    4.1
C. Resource Balance          -36    .0.5    2.8    2.8    3.S    3.7    3.4    2.6    2.9    3.0           34
D. Net Factor Inome          -3.8    4.0   -4.9   -S.1    -5.6   -6.0   -5.9   -SS    -S.7   -S.9    -4
L Factor Receipts          0.8    0.7    04       O.S     OS      0.6    0.7    0.6    0.6    0.7       08
2. Factor Payments         4.6    4.7    5.5    5.6    6.1    6.6    6.6    6.1    6.3    6.6    7.2
(Interest paynms)        1.S    2.5    2.8    3.0    3.1    3.2    32          32      3.3     34     3.6
E. Net Current Transfs        0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    02          0.2    02       02
1. Current Recept          0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    02           0.2    02      02
a. Workers' Renittances  0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    02          0.2    02       0.2
2. Current Payment         0,0    0.      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   O          0.0    0.0    0O
F. Currt Account Balnce
(excluding oficial tranes)    -7.4   -4A    -2.0   -22    -2.0   -22    -2.4   -2.7   -2.6   -2.7   -28
Net Ofia Transfei          0.1     02     0.3    03       0.4     04     0.4    0.4    O.S    O.S    0.5
Curmt Account Balance
(indudng  cl tranfas)    -7.3    42    -1.7   -L9    -14    -1.8   -2.0   -2.3   -2.1   -2.2   -2.3
0. Long-Term Capial inflow   4.5    3.4    34        33     2.6    2.9    3.4    3.8    3.9    4.7    4.8
1. Directmnestament (Unt)  02      02     0.3    0.3    0.6       09     1.0    1.1      13      1.4    1.5
2. Net Public MLT LoAn     4.0    2.6    1.9    2.9    1.6        14      1.7    1.8     19      2.7    2.
a. Disbuwemnent          S.1    52       6.1    7.3    6.1    6.1    63        6.6     72      7.S    7.8
b. Repayments            1.1    2.6    4.2      44      4.5    4.7    4.6    4.8    S.3    4.8    5A
3. Other LT inflows (nct)  0.3    0.6    1.4    0.1    0.4    0.6    0.7    0.9    0.7    0.6    0.5
H. Total Other Items         0.6    -2.2    0.8    -1.5   -2.0    0.        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
. Net Short-Term Capit     1.0    0.4    0.1    0.4    0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.           0.0    0.0
2. Capital Flows NEJ.      -.6    -2.6    4.7    -1.9   -2.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
L Changes in Net Foreip Assets  314  3      -1       0.1    10    -1.1   -1.4   -L5    -18    -2.5   -2.S
L Net Creditfrm IMF        0.1   O       0.6   .0.1    0.0   -02    .03    -032    0.0    0.0    0.0
2. Other Resrve Changes    33      3.0   -1.7    02       1.0   -0.9    -1.1   -1.3   -1.8   -2.S   -2.5
Shar of GNP (Curnt US5)
1. Resource Balance          -3.9   408      3.      34     39      3.8   132      22      22      2.1    2.2
2. Totallnteest Payments      1.6    34      3.9    3.7    3.4    3.3       30     2.8    2.5    2.4    2.3
3. Current Account Baance    -7.8   -5.    -23    -2.3   -13        -.     -L9    -2.0   -1.    -L6    -15
4. LT Capal Inflow            5.1    4.7    43       4D.    2.9    2.9    3.1       32     3.0    3.3    3.1
S. Net Credit from IMF       0.1    0.0    0.    40.1    0.0   -0.2    -03         0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0
Foren fxchange Reseves
1. Internationd R ve (IFS)   3.1    4.1    5.6    5.0    S.5
2. Gold (London Price)        1.1    14      1.3     12      1.0
3. Toal Net Forelgn Asst      7.5    9.    10.8   104       9.5
Exchange Rates (RMlh&IWS3
L Nom. Oft. X-Rate (ItS)     661   1.23   1,644   1,686   1,770
2. Real Elff X-Rate (1963-100)  1Z33    7.5   533    51.4   52.1
& The are Indonesdan fi year accounts.



- 33 -                           Annex It
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of July 31, 1990) la
Loan/                                                     Amount (USS million)
Credit   Fiscal                                           (less cancellations)
number   Year              Purpose                       Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Seventy-eight Loans and forty-eight Credits
fully disbursed                                      5,680.90  901.61      -
Of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans Lb
2780    1987   Trade Policy Adjustment                   300.00    -
2937    1988   Second Trade Policy Adjustment            300.00    -
3080    1989   Private Sector Development                350.00    -
Subtotal:                                              950.00    -         _
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.00    -         2.27
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V         108.00    -        18.19
2049    1981   Jakarta Cikampek Highway                   85.00    -         6.69
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    79.59    -         1.50
2214    1983   Twelfth. Power                            292.50    -        36.88
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII        96.00    -        28.90
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation            22.40    -         3.12
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                     30.60    -         0.36
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                          53.50    -        18.38
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                        107.40    -         6.79
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                          279.00    -        12.19
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                63.30    -         8.13
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar    70.30    -           12.96
2355    1984   Second Nonformal Educ   sn                 43.00    -         2.49
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                    39.25    -         3.40
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                   65.00    -        27.95
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                          210.00    -        18.25
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                78.00    -        10.56
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation        11.30    -         7.59
la  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
lb Approved during or after FY80.



- 34 -                             Annex II
Page 2 of 4
Loan/                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Credit   Fiscal                                           (less cancellations)
number   Year              Purpose                       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II         89.00    -        44.23
2529    1985   Fourth Population                         35.13    -         7.48
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)    39.00    -          19.88
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Mulipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                            156.00    -        47.24
2547    1985   Second University Development            147.00    -        57.47
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Development              43.40    -        19.81
2577    1985   National Ports Development                82.69    -        39.74
2578    1985   Transmigration V                          97.00    -        20.80
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training           93.00    -        14.61
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development            32.00    -        13.93
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply             43.30    -         4.79
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and
Community Health                       33.17    -        13.22
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support         33.00    -        15.40
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation         166.00    -        84.37
2690    1986   Gas Distribution                          34.00    -        21.98
2702    1986   Export Development                        64.50    -        10.23
2705    1986   Manpower Development and Training         58.10    -        16.41
2717    1986   Highway Maintenance and Betterment       300.00    -        15.38
2725    1986   Housing Sector Loan                      200.00    -         5.92
2748    1987   Third National Agricultural
Extension                              55.00    -        28.40
2757    1987   Telecommunications Technical
Assistance                              14.50    -        3.28
2773    1987   Fisheries Support Services                24.50    -        18.66
2778    1987   Power Transmission & Distribution        226.00    -        90.99
2800    1987   BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit                 101.50    -         1.28
2816    1987   Urban Sector Loan                        270.00    -        18.18
2817    1987   Regional Cities Urban Transport           51.00    -        11.59
2879    1988   Industrial Energy Conservation            21.00    -        15.40
2880    1988   Irrigation Subsector                     234.00    -        59.82
2881    1988   Second Rural Roads Development           190.00    -        96.83
2891    1988   Railway Technical Assistance              28.00    -        19.09
2930    1988   Forestry Institutions & Conservation    30.00    -          19.84
2932    1988   Jabotabek Urban Development              150.00    -       121.11
2940    1988   Accountancy Development                  113.00    -       100.06
2944    1988   Higher Education Development             140.30    -        62.35
2979    1988   Second Export Development                165.00    -        90.41
2992    1989   Tree Crop Human Resource Development    18.40    -          15.63



Axmes 2I
- 35 -                          Page 3 of 4
Loan/                                                   Amount (US$ mllion)
Credit   Fiscal                                          (less cancellations)
number   Year              Purpose                      Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development I1        89.00      -      44.23
3000    1989   Tree Crop Processing                    118.20      -     114.45
3031    1989   Agriculture Research Management          35.30      -      31.69
3040    1989   Industrial Restructuring                284.00      -     274.03
3041    1989   Small & Medium Industrial               100.00      -      93.86
Enterprise
3042    1989   Third Health                             43.50      -      38.93
3097    1989   Power Sector Efficiency                 337.00      -     336.72
3098    1989   Paitoan Thermal Power                   354.00      -     328.75
3112    1990   Public Works Institutional               36.10      -      33.46
Development and Training
3133    1990   Highway Sector                          350.00      -     312.31
3134    1990   Professional Human Resource Dev.        117.50      -     111.80
3158    1990   Second Secondary Education              154.20      -     142.20
3180    1990   Rural Electrification                   329.00      -     329.00
3182    1990   Third Telecommunications La             350.00      -     350.00
3209    1990   Gas Utilizaion la                        86.00      -      86.00
3219    1990   Second Jabotabek Urban Development /a  190.00       -     190.00
3243    1990   Second Forestry Inst. & Conservation la 20.00       -      20.00
3246    1991   Third Jabotabek Urban Development la    61.00       -      61.00
3249    1991   Second BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit la      125.00      -     125.00
Total                                       14.119.32   901.61
Of which has been repaid                   1,950.17    52.95
Total nov held by Bank and IDA              12,169.15   848.66
Amount sold to third party                    88.08
of which repald                             43.01
Total undisbursed                                              4.451.62
la  Not yet effective.



- 36 -                           Anmex II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEIMET OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of July 81. i90)
(USS 0O0)
Undisbursed
Original Commitments    Total        Including
Fiscal                             Type of        (USS million)        held       participants'
year                Obligor        business    Loan  Equity Total   by IFC           portion
1971/74      P.T. Primatexco       Textiles
& fibers   4.0      0.8   4.8       -
1971         P.T. Unitex           Textiles
A fibers   2.5      0.8   8.8       0.a
1971/78/     P.T. Semen Cibinong   Cment
74/76/84                                      46.0      6.0  51.8       -
1971         P.T. Kabel Indonesia Cables        2.8      0.4   8.2       -
1972/77/79   P.T. Daralon Textile  Textiles
Mfg. Corp.            & fibers   5.8      1.6   7.8       -
197a8/9      P.T. Jakarta          Tourism
International Hotel               9.6     2.7  12.6       2.7
1974         P.T. Private         Developmnt
Dev. Finance          finance
Co. of Indonesia                  -       0.6   0.5       0.4
1974         P.T. Monsanto         Electronics  0.9      -      0.9      -
1974/77      P.T. Kamaltex         Textile.s    8.       0.8   4.6       -
1960         P.T. Papan SeJahtera Housing
finance    4.0      1.2   6.2       1.2
1960         P.T. Supreme Indo-   Dinnerware
American                         11.1     0.9  12.0       -
19806/6      P.T. Smen Andales   Cemn1t        48.6      6.0  58.6    22.7             -
1982/65      P.T. Saseka  bolor    Leasing
Leasing                           6.0     0.4   5.4       0.4            -
1686         P.T. Bali Holiday    Tourism      11.8      -    11.8       8.1           -
1968         P.T. Asurensl Jiwa   Insurance    -         0.8   0.8       0.8           -
1889         P.T. Monterado        Mining       8.0      2.0  10.0       5.5           -
1990         P.T. Astrsa a         Manufact.   12.6    12.5  25.0    12.6              -
1990         Federal Motor la      Manufact.   12.5      -    12.6       -
1960         Nomura Fund           Ctry. Fund   -        8.0   8.0       1.6           -
1960         Bank Umum Nasional   Development
finance   10.0      -    10.0    10.0            10.0
1960         Bank Niaga           Development
finance    7.5      -      7.5      7.6           7.5
1990         Argo Panto.           Textilo              18.0  18.0    18.0            18.0
1990         Indo Rase Synthetics  Textile     12.0      -    12.0    12.0            12.0
Sub-Total                                   218.0    61.6 209.6    92.9             42.6
ProJect. aseroved but not yet signed:
1969         P.T. Kalteng /b       Mining       -        1.4   1.4       1.4           1.4
1990         P.T. Agro Muko       Plantations 10.5       2.2  12.7    12.7            12.7
1660         P.T. Kayu NIC         Wood prod.  12.2      0.9  18.1    18.1            18.1
1990         Argo Pantes           Textile     8a.0      -    83.0    80.0            68.0
1990         Raj /Pendopo          Oil Explor.  -        3.6   3.6       8.6           8.6
TOTAL                                         828.7    59.6 883.4   168.7           L16.8
/ Loan subsequently cancelled.
7  Will be dropped In FY91.



- 37 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project       :   3 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project       :  BAPPENAS
(c)  First presentation to the Bank      :  June 1990
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission          August 1990
(e)  Completion of negotiations          :  October 1990
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness       s  November 1990
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
None



- 38 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 9
October 20, 1990
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. President:
Re: Government's Statement on Economic Policy
1.          The Government of Indonesia wishes to request a loan from the
World Bank in support of continued adjustment and private sector development.
This loan would be the fourth in a series of adjustment operations, following
two earlier loans for trade policy adjustment (TPAL I and 1I, approved in
February 1987 and May 1988) and a loan for private sector development (PSDL I,
approved in June 1989). This letter describes the current economic situation,
the measures which the Government has taken and the direction of future policy
actions.
Progress in Economic Adjustment
2.          As outlined in our three previous letters to you (dated December
19, 1986, February 29, 1988 and May 10, 1989), the Government has been
implementing a comprehensive program of stabilization and structural reform in
response to the severe, adverse external shocks of the mid-1980s. This
program included austere budgets throughout the period, a 31? devaluation of
the Rupiah in September 1986, and a series of reforms in trade, industry and
the financial sector. We have continued and expanded these efforts over the
past year on the lines described in our letter of May, 1989. Specifically:
o     in macroeconomic management, we have improved the fiscal and
current account balances during 1989/90, strengthened non-oil
revenues, and maintained the competitiveness of the exchange rate;
o     in trade reform, we have introduced a new package of measures
reducing NTBs and lowering and rationalizing the tariff regime;
o     in the regulatory framework, we have successfully implemented and
further simplified the major reform of investment regulations
described in our previous letter and we have started work to
improve the legal framework for enterprises;
o     in the financial sector, we have substantially reduced the scope
and volume of subsidized, directed credit, widened the scope for
foreign participation in the rapidly expanding stock market, and
taken steps to improve the framework of prudential regulations for
the sector;



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 9
o     in public enterprises, a series of decrees has established a
framework for systematic reform, including restructuring to
improve efficiency, selective divestiture, introduction of
performance-based pay, and steps to increase enterprise autonomy.
3.          We are pleased to note that the economy, and particularly the
private sector, have responded strongly to these measures. This is reflected
in the economy's strong growth performance in 1989, with growth in the non-oil
economy exceeding 8?, leading to total GDP growth of 7.42, the highest rate in
eight years. At the same time, the regulatory reforms and the competitive
exchange rate have provided incentives for important structural shifts in the
economy, reducing our dependence on oil and diversifying the opportunities for
growth. Most importantly, continued progress has been made in raising the
living standards of the poor as indicated by a significant decline in the
percentage of the population living in poverty.
4.          One outcome of the strong resurgence of private sector investment
and growth, in conjunction with the major reduction in barriers to trade and
investment, has been an acceleration in import demand and pressure on our
foreign exchange reserves. As outlined in more detail below, we have
tightened monetary policy to moderate these trends. Nevertheless, to continue
the momentum of economic reforms and to provide a consistent, stable framework
for private sector development, we will need during this fiscal year special
assistance from the donor community in the form of fast-disbursing program aid
and local-cost financing. The Second Private Sector Development Loan would
contribute directly to this as well as playing a catalytic role in mobilizing
an additional US$ 1.0 billion in support from other donors. We are grateful
for the assistance provided by the World Bank through TPAL I and II and PSDL
I, which also served to mobilize support from other donors. During 1989/90,
total disbursements of special assistance reached an estimated US$1.7 billion.
This assistance has enabled the Government to continue to implement and expand
its deregulation measures and has provided the resources needed for the strong
recovery of private investment and growth mentioned above. Special assistance
has also enabled Indonesia to improve the term structure of its external debt,
while maintaining the confidence of investors and the financial market in the
soundness of our adjustment program. The Government's prudent borrowing
strategy, combined with strong non-oil export performance and IGGI support,
caused the debt service ratio to decline to about 322 in 1989190, and it is
expected to decline further in the medium term.
5.          The recent oil price increase is likely to provide a temporary
windfall to our balance of payments and budget, but the size and duration of
this benefit are highly uncertain. Accordingly, we intend to use temporary
gains from higher oil prices to support sustainable growth and macro-economic
stability through increasing the size and quality of foreign exchange reserves
and financing sustainable, private import demand. We also intend to contir.ue
and extend the policy initiatives taken over the past several years to develop
a diversified, efficient non-oil economy. The paragraphs below outline these
policy areas in more detail, describing measures recently taken and the
directions for change in the coming year.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 9
Macroeconomic Management
6.          The Government remains committed to prudent macroeconomic
management to limit the current account deficit, control inflation and
preserve export competitiveness. Strong (29Z) growth in non-oil revenues in
1989190 contributed to a sharper improvement in the fiscal balance than
expected in the budget. The 1990/91 budget is consistent with the dual aims
of macroeconomic stability and continued strong private sector investment and
growth. Measures were taken to reduce budget subsidies and improve price
signals through the October 1989 and 1990 increases in fertilizer prices and
the May 1990 increase in domestic fuel prices. The budget provides for a real
increase in capital spending, which will help to expand the infrastructure
services needed for private sector development. Other expenditure priorities
include operation and maintenance and human resource development. Despite
these necessary increases in expenditure, we anticipate, even before
accounting for the recent surge in oil prices, a continued primary budget
surplus and a decline in net domestic expenditure. This prudent fiscal stance
will be achieved through continued strengthening of the non-oil tax effort,
improved cost recovery from public services (exemplified by the October, 1990
increases in telecommunications tariffs), limiting budgetary subsidies
particularly for oil and fertilizer, and strengthening the financial
performance of public enterprises. We will take steps to ensure that windfall
budget revenues which may arise from the recent oil price increase are
carefully deployed to prevent excess demand.
7.          The deregulation of the financial sector, combined with a strong
private sector response, led to more rapid monetary expansion than anticipated
during 1989190. Concerned with the effects this monetary growth was having on
the balance of payments and inflation, since May 1990, Bank Indonesia
tightened monetary policy partly through open market operations but mainly
through the substantial reduction in subsidized directed credits discounted by
BI, discussed further below. These measures have prevented further pressure
on the foreign exchange reserve position and are expected to slow the growth
of domestic credit substantially. Inflation is also expected to decelerate in
the second half of the year. Nevertheless, the Government will continue to
monitor monetary trends carefully and to take further measures as needed to
control inflation and maintain adequate international reserves.
8.          Sustained growth over the medium term will depend critically on
non-oil export growth. Accordingly, the Government is committed to an
exchange rate policy that preserves the international competitiveness of
Indonesian exports, taking into account price and exchange rate movements in
trading partners and competitor countries. Through appropriate fiscal,
monetary and exchange rate policies, the Government aims to avoid any real
effective appreciation of the Rupiah.
9.          The Government will continue to maintain a prudent external
borrowing strategy during 1990/91. Proposals for large capital-intensive
projects will be carefully scrutinized and import-related credits and
borrowing by public enterprises, including state banks, and other publicly



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 9
guaranteed borrowing, will be carefully monitored and kept within levels
consistent with the Government's overall borrowing strategy. New commitments
of special assistance for 1990/91 are expected to be about US$1.3 billion,
continuing the downward trend from the US$2.3 billion committed in 1988189, in
line with the Government's commitment to phase out special assistance. Steps
are also being taken to improve the Government's capacity in the area of debt
management, including a more systematic monitoring of private external debt.
Trade Policy Reform
10.         The Government remains strongly committed to the objectives of
trade policy reform as set out in our previous three letters, namely:
o     establishing a protection structure based on tariffs rather than
import licenses, thereby providing a more uniform and transparent
level of protection to Indonesian producers; and
o     reducing the past bias in incentives against export activities and
in favor of import substitution by reducing levels of protection.
11.         Reforms supported in TPAL I and IT and PSDL I focused on removal
of import licenses, resulting in a decline in the share of domestic production
protected by such licenses from 41Z in 1986 to 292 by end 1988. The surge in
private sector investment and growth over the past year has increased the need
to move swiftly forward with further reforms of the trade regime to ensure
that investment flows into those activities where Indonesia is most
competitive. Accordingly, the Government announced a new trade reform package
on Hay 28, 1990. The May 1990 reform eliminated import licensing controls on
335 items, reducing the number of items subject to such controls by 21? and
lowering the share of domestic production protected by them to 252. This
reform affected a broad range of products including cement, fertilizer,
pharmaceuticals, synthetic yarns, and some machinery and electronic products.
12.         A major focus of the May 1990 measures was to implement the first
stage of a comprehensive medium term reform of the level and structure of
tariffs. The main elements of this first stage of tariff reform are:
o     to lower the ceiling on most tariffs from 602 to 402 so that fewer
than 52 of tariff items have tariffs (including surcharges) in
excess of 40Z, compared with 24Z above that level before the
reform;
o     to implement a more general reduction in the tariff structure, so
that the share of tariff items at a 25? rate or below rose from
69Z before the May 1990 reform to more thin 75Z;
o     to replace the few remaining specific tariffs with lower ad
valorem tariffs; and
o     to reduce the number of split tariff positions from 592 to 429, a
28Z decline.



- 42 -
ANNFX IV
Page 5 of 9
These changes have increased the transparency of the tariff system and reduced
the level of protection it provides.
13.         We plan further reforms of the trade regime in the coming months.
We expect to remove most remaining import licensing restrictions on
manufacturing by the end of the fiscal year, particularly those that provide
high protection to domestic production (such as on agroindustrial products).
Over the longer term, the Government intends to eliminate all non-tariff
barriers on imports except for a small group of products that are harmful to
health, strategic to national defense or involve special economic or social
considerations. The Government also intends to reduce further tariff levels
in stages so that by 1992 few rates lie above a range of 20-302. Higher rates
would be limited and temporary, allowing only - specified time for the
concerned activity to adjust to the tariff re action in an orderly fashion.
In addition, the existing surcharges are bei ,, reviewed. We expect to
eliminate a substantial portion of them over the next 12 months, granting
extensions only on an exceptional basis. We will also eliminate the remaining
split tariff positions at the same time. The Government is taking steps to
inform the business community of these planned trade reforms, so that private
investors can adjust to them at an early date.
14.         As part of the May 1990 trade reforms, the Government removed
selected export restrictions to support the efficient growth of non-oil
exports. These measures included coffee, nutmeg, fresh and frozen fish and
several other agricultural products. Over the coming year the Government
plans to identify additional measures to reduce the scope of the remaining
export restrictions. In this effort we expect to make use of the review of
export policy recently undertaken at our request by the IMF and World Bank.
15.         To prepare and implement further reforms of trade policy, the
Government will continue to use the high-level team established to deal with
issues of trade, tariffs and industrial policy. This team is chaired by the
Junior Minister of Finance, and includes representatives from EKUIN and the
Ministries of Finance, Industry and Trade. The Government would welcome
technical assistance to strengthen the analytical capacity of this team.
The Regulatory Framework
16.         In our May 1989 letter we noted a major simplification in our
investment licensing system that replaced a long but partial list of areas
open for investment with a short, clearly specified negative investment list.
Following this reform, the number of approvals for both domestic and foreign
investments has grown rapidly and the processing time has been reduced
significantly. The deregulation measures of May 1990 extended this reform by
opening up investment opportunities in agriculture and pharmaceuticals. In
agriculture, investment restrictions have been eased in the poultry, livestock
and fishe-.es industries. Licensing procedures for both production and
distribution of pharmaceuticals have been simplified, complementing the
reduction in non-tariff barriers for pharmaceutical imports. These measures



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 9
should increase competition in the health sector, improving efficiency and
lowering costs.
17.         The Government will continue to identify ways to relax and
simplify the framework of trade and investment regulations. The Government
intends to open additional areas to domestic and foreign private investment so
that eventually only a few activities would be regulated on national security
or special economic and social grounds. At the same time, the Government will
review the scope for further elimination of investment-related licenses (e.g.,
licenses for capacity expansion) and reduction and simplification of
requirements for license approval (including requirements at the local level).
Local content plans have been administered flexibly and, following the reforms
of the trade regime, it is now possible to import most final goods and
components subject to these plans. Many of these programs are close to the
end of their timetables and will be carefully reviewed before extension. To
facilitate foreign investment, the Government intends to review the remaining
ownership and operating restrictions faced by foreign firms, and make any
further adjustments that are needed to maintain an attractive investment
climate. The Government's decision in October 1989. to allow foreign firms to
invest in industrial estates is a significant example of this approach.
18.         Regulatory reforms have focused so far primarily on the core areas
of trade and investment regulations. The Government has recognized, however,
that other aspects of the regulatory framework--including land and labor laws
and practices, local level regulations, and the legal framework--have
important effects on the pace and efficiency of private sector development.
While reforms in these areas will be complex and time-consuming since they
will require substantive revisions to laws, modifications of procedures and
reorientation of institutions, we have taken important initial steps to lay
the groundwork for further reforms. We have, for example, created a new land
agency directly under the President. We have set up a working group of the
legal advisors in the economic ministries to identify priorities and
approaches to the modernization of the corporate legal framework. This group
has received helpful advice from domestic and international specialists,
including from the World Bank. In the coming year the Government will
continue to review local-level regulations and land and labor laws and
practices to identify areas for reform which will foster efficient private
sector development.
Financial Sector Development
19.         A series of financial sector reforms introduced over 1983-88,
including those supported by PSDL I, replaced direct interest rate controls
with indirect, market-based instruments, eliminated credit ceilings,
increased competition by easing entry and branch requirements for both foreign
and domestic banks, and promoted growth of the capital market. These reforms
have had a profound effect on the financial system, providing the private
sector with a growing range of sources and types of financial services priced
at rates determined by market competition. Deposits, loans, the numbers of
financial institutions and stock market activity have all grown rapidly.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 9
20.         Over the past year, several new measures have been introduced,
including the phasing out of subsidized, directed credits from Bank Indonesia
(liquidity credits), clarifications of the rules governing foreign exchange
activities of the commercial banks, and a relaxation in the constraints on
foreign participants in the stock market. The reform of the subsidized
directed credit system announced in January 1990, is especially important both
for its resource allocation effects and for the improved control it gives to
Bank Indonesia in conducting monetary policy. Under the January 1990 reform,
the number of programs eligible for directed credit was reduced to four and
the interest rates to end users were raised closer to market levels (162). We
expect the volume of such loans outstanding to fall sharply as the existing
stock of loans matures. The reduced role of the liquidity credit system will
strengthen Bank Indonesia's ability to influence reserve money growth through
open market operations. The maturity of Bank Indonesia certificates (SBIs)
has been extended to 6 months as another measure to help improve monetary
management. We plan to extend SBI maturities to 12 months in the coming year
and further develop the secondary market for SBIs.
21.         With the main elements in place for the effective operation of
market forces and competition in the financial system, the priority for the
future will be to maintain and enhance the soundness and stability of the
system. Sound macroeconomic management, emphasized above, is one essential
ingredient in achieving this. Strengthening prudential supervision will also
be critical. With technical assistance from the DMP and other sources, Bank
Indonesia has strengthened its supervision department by hiring new examiners,
increasing training and reorganizing to supervise financial intermediaries
more effectively. Bank examination procedures have been improved and an early
warning system has been developed.
22.         Over the coming months we will present draft legislation to the
Parliament to codify and streamline the legal and regulatory framework for the
central bank, commercial banks, insurance companies and pension funds. We
will continue developing a program to strengthen further prudential regulation
and supervision capacity for the banks and the capital market, utilizing
additional technical assistance from the IMP and other sources, including the
Project Preparation Facility recently provided by the World Bank. We hope to
use technical and financial support from the World Bank to implement these
regulatory improvements, to improve managerial and technical expertise and to
implement a program to audit and, as necessary, to restructure and
recapitalize state banks. To strengthen the supervision of the stock market,
we plan to place the stock exchange under private ownership and operation, so
that the Capital Market Coordinating Board (BAPEPAM) can focus on its
supervisory and regulatory role.
Public Enterprises
23.         Following the weakening of oil prices in the early 19809, the
Government took steps to contain investment by public enterprises, including
the rephasing of several large, capital-intensive projects. Subsequently
tight control has been kept on the utilization of non-concessional import-



- 45 -
ANNJ IV
Page 8 of 9
related credits, and funding of public enterprises through the budget has been
reduced to minimal levels. Moreover, the ongoing deregulation process in
trade, investment, finance and transport, coupled with gradual pricing
reforms, have introduced competitive pressures for the enterprises to operate
more efficiently, reducing the financial drain of these enterprises on the
budget. The Government is introducing further organizational and managerial
reforms in public enterprises to improve their efficiency and their
contribution to public resources. In addition, with the development of the
economy and the recent deregulation measures, a number of enterprises no
longer need to remain under Government ownership. The Government intends to
divest itself of such enterprises in a phased and orderly manner.
24.         The framework for public enterprise reforms is set forth in
Presidential Decree No. 5 of October 1988 and Ministerial Decrees No. 740 and
741 of June 1989. In accordance with these decrees, the Government has
undertaken a careful review of the financial performance of the major public
enterprises, in consultation with the concerned technical ministries and
public enterprise managements. Based on this review, the Government intends
to:
o     institute appropriate reforms to improve the economic and
financial performance of enterprises that will remain in the
public sector;
o     prepare public enterprises that are viable and need not remain in
the public sector for divestiture to the private sector; and
o     take steps to liquidate those enterprises that are not viable.
25.         The Government has begun to implement these approaches on a
limited number of selected enterprises to identify and establish procedures
that are legally, financially, and technically effective. So far, we have
changed the legal status of three enterprises to facilitate more commercial
modes of operation, established management contracts for four, mergers for
three, joint ventures for two and liquidated two. We have established a
framework for greater accountability and improved, performance-based
compensation for managers of public enterprises. In addition, we are
preparing for three public sector cement companies to float new shares on the
stock exchange. We expect to undertake further dia3nostic studies of a larger
group of selected enterprises to be divested, liquidated or restructured over
the next three years.  Based on this experien:e, the reforms would be
gradually extended to cover the entire publi. enterprise sector.  The
Government will seek to implement such reforms systematically through the
framework of annual budgets and five-year corporate plans as established in
Ministerial Decree No. 741. The organization, planning and implementation of
public enterprise reform will be coordinated by the Minister of Finance
drawing on such additional technical, legal and financial expertise as may be
needed.



- 46 -
ANE  IV
Page 9 of 9
Infrastructure Services
26.         It is important to ensure that infrastructure services expand and
improve to support the continued development of the private sector. To this
end we Intend to monitor carefully the implementation of the reforms in the
maritime transport sector mentioned in our letter of May 1989, including the
improvements in customs procedures and port operations and the deregulation of
the shipping industry. Over the past year we expanded the scope for private
firms to upgrade their shipping fleet by allowing the import of ships of
5000 DWT and above. With the support of the World Bank through the Highway
Sector loan we are developing proposals to Improve efficiency and the standard
of road transport services through reform and better enforcement of
regulations and appropriate pricing policies. We are actively seeking
approaches for the private sector to invest in and operate a wider range of
infrastructure services, including power, telecommunications and ports. We
recognize that in developing specific proposals in this area it is important
to take adequate account of the public interest to ensure the arrangements are
efficient and cost effective. Consequently, the Minister for Economy,
Finance, Industry and Development Supervision (EZUIN) is coordinating work to
develop guidelines and review specific proposals.
Sincerely yours,
Radius Prawiro
Coordinating Minister for
Economy. Finance, Industry,
and Development Supervision



Actipm ten 16-8                       Actios t9akn 11-6                    Actfos taken 198990                    Areas for followip
A.
t. b4ish deatwd by 21 & tle   196. 1Wfoh dlued by 311 &                   Cospetitiveness of the cen my           Avoid an appeclition of the
ezeah    ete           ty Mr t by           ty  aolwd to depreciato    mintafned. TM average R1   remned   EER, tos  camfdinmted fiswal,
o gmnlogd flot agnt  boakt           with the US Dolter.                  roughly unchanged in 1909 corpered      mnetary & oxhnSe rate polieIes.
of currmnieis.                                                            with 1968.
R4apds depreeoated stadlf ty apanst
the US Dollar. By Dec_dr 1968,
the RlEl uas 7 lower than after
the 196 devluation.
fial d Nonetary Polcties A xternwt get
1963. Mny lawe capital-intensive    Austere budets iplmented for          Another austere budget isplented       Monitor expenditures In 1990191, to
projects rephasod. Total foreign     1966/86 , 1987/81 & 1966/89. Current   in 1989/90. Budget deficlt redeced    maintain a primary budget surplus.
xdae savings aetimted at             spending restrained & capital        to below 2X and a surplus In            Deptoy ay windfall budget revues
UStlO biIllon.                       spending cut by 271. Priority        the primory budget baelnce achieved.    frm oil so as to sustain omcrecon,iai
given to:                            loprvement in non-oil reveues end       stability and to contribute to the resources
1983. Credit eoltingo replaced       - Comletion of ooing projects.       primary surplus also pror-ed            neded In future years to finance major
with a system of reser  money        - Counterpart furds for foreign-     in M990/91 budget. Spending             Infrastructure investmnts. Careftly mnitor
_onagement.                            aided projects.                    priorities focussed on OSM             trends in monetary agregates to taintain
-Projects serving eWtlVent &        physceal Infrastructure and pvwerty     prudent motary poltey stance.
1986. Now instruwent of mntary         equity objectives.                 related progroim
control (SB6) introdeced to          -Funding of OUN.                                                            Iplement spendinr priorities for
loprove monetary mogont.                                                  Jan 1990. Liquidity credits reformd     IEPELITA V: ODN, Infrastructure 8
Suportive   oetary poicifes          egonc   Bl9s abilty to manage              n resource devewtoment.
naintafn4d.                          base money.
Maintain prudent externl bwing
Jima 1990. Monetory polley tightened   stratey in 1990/1:
by raising interest rates on SBls and   - Ieep strict limits an iqport-
by redecing liquidity through            related credits & mitor borroing  by
sate of $lls and retiring of             p*tic enterprses, ineluding state benks.
liquidity credits.                     - Carefully scrutinize propols for
large capital-intesivo projects.
Ic
N,



isu
PRIVA:  18        O        m II
Actions taken ¶93-S                  Actions taen 198688                  Actions taken 199-90                  Ars  for folleOW-
Primarily use windfall from h1ighr
oil prices to strengthen fto1
escae reserves swpoPt prIvate
sector Isxport and/or reile externt
borreing.
StreUthen institutional
arrangements for debt mnagment:
- Davtlop a str. flined & unified
debt reporting & mltyi* system.
- Develop a more active strategy
for asset S liabltity waugemant.
Pl>lit Resource Nobilization
1964. Irna  tax reform included by:  1986. Mew property tax replaced 7   loosted non-ofl taxes from 10X of      Further iqxrove tax adanfstration
- St   tifled tax structure, bsed   ordinances, Including the old Land    non-oil GDP in 1988/89 to 11.2X in      Stregthening tax audit effort.
enS relatively low rates (15X,       net wealth taxes. The new law     19@099  by: extending VAT to the       - increasing property values for tI
25X & 35X) S limited dedections.    is simpler. based on a prqoprtion    olesalo level and to mst sevices;      cotlection.
* "Self-assmssment' of tax          of the market value of land &        raising the nmber of Item and                                                      ao
liability, with aphasis en        buildings, & a single tax rate of    rates for luxury texes; and liproving    tqrove cost recovery by:
withholding at source.            0.5X.                                tax adainistration.                    - Identifying 8 adopting maore systeatic
- Ssoptification of the tax code,                                                                                methds for adjusting energy prices
including reised procewres        Through i1irovements In tax          Power tariffs raised on average by       to reflect their opportunity cost.
for apptels & refunds.            adoinistration (e.3.. Income tax     252 from April 1, 1989, enabling PU    - Reducing fertilizer subsidies
audits). non-oil taxes increased    to Iqwove its rate of return on          through price Increses, as uetl
1985. 10X VAT replaced sales taxes.   from 8.86  of non-oilI GOP In     revalued assets from 0 in                as Srvned efficiency In prdectien
Limited to mnufacturing level, but   1967/88 to 102 in '48/89.           196489 to 6.3X In 1989/90                and dfstribution.
increased revene potential by:                                                                                  - Extending tho irrigatfin service fee
- Subjecting domestic sales of      October 1986. A 152 withholding      Pesticide subsidies eliminated in        on a nation-wfied basis in a phosd
petrolesu a tobacco products to   tax on time and savirn deposits      1969/90.                                  eoner.
VAT.                               introdeed.                                                                 - iluem nting plicy measures pfdins for
- ltgosing an additional tax (10-                                        Fortiliter prices raised bv an           setting fees and revenue retention for
200) n luKwy goods.                                                    averPwe of 16X In October 1969 and       publec highr eduction and hospital
17X in October 199O. This helped         facilities.
contain buetary subsidfas at
abot 0.4  of GDP In 1989/90 w
an estimted 0.3% In 1990/.
telemmuication eara reoad
end ratilizd ln October 1990.
I! <



Action tdcun WS!-J5                   Actinws taken 19-U                    Actiens taken 1UP*90                   Area for fellem-up
DmstIc olt prices rased by an
avere of 15.32 In NWY 1990. ThIs
-asurea Is expected to yield
Rp.1.1 trillion incr_e In revenues
(0.5X of GP) in 1990/91. At the
budgeted oft pr1ce of USSU6.S/barrel
this would h     ced an ofl
surplus rather tha a wAsidy.
Policy decisions were announced to
decentrallse fincial snagemnt
of publc sector hisher education
and hospital facilities.
e. Incentives 1 Reoulatory Fraevork
Trade Policy Retorm
19865. Tariff celting reduced from   1966. Export certificates             Jan. 1989.  mew tariff schedule         Ensure proper IAplementation of
225X to 60X (barring a few           abotlshed, followire Idoesia's        based on Harmonized System              reform.
eceptions). However NIs              accesn to GATT Code an                Introduced.
contin  to itroltferate.             Shstidias & Cowmtervaiing Duties                                               Reviem irpert monwpolies for soybeas.
By end-l9tS  more than                                                     Sept. 1989. Import monopoly on           gAeat sad then to determine if they
1.700 ites were muAJect to           1966. "Producer exporters" allowed    corn abolished.                         should be eliminated.
NIM  of one form or another.         to liport inputs, exeipt from
duties A license restrictions.       Nay 1990. Me trade reform package        Reduce the domestic production coverap
Other exporters allowed to lport    removed 335 products from laport         of NItBs by 3-S percentage points by the
inputs (with duties refunded) If     licencing restrictins.                   end of 1990m. Focus on manucturlre
domestic soplers not abte to         Coverage of NIBs reduced from:           areas beAre NITs provide hiSh protectien
stppty them at competitive prices.    - 172 to 15X for fiport value           to domestic productlon. Eventually,
2-2 to 252 for total production       eliminate all ITtS. except for a
196876. Iominat tariffs adjusted     - 38X to 33X for ianuf. production       smI group of produts for heith.
to loer the cost of Irported                                                  defense or social consideratins.
irpits & moderate the imact of       Nay 1990. The tariff system
ITS removal.                         reformed by:                             Re     /etfinete surcharges WM
Abolishing 282 of split tariffs.      remfning split teriffs.
0
Ioc



PRIVATE           LOPUN   LOAN II
Actions taken 1983-85                   Actfons taken 19E6r88                  Actios taken 1989-90                      Areas for follow-up
196W. Export incentives  prwoved         Redocing the tariff ceiling frm         Roduce tariffs an Item  reminfing
bV:                                      60  to 401 951 of all items             above the 40X ce Iing.
Abolishing expert licenses.            fll In this lower tariff ceiling
- Remowing export bens on 10 Item                                                Announme a mediuc-term piogra
a export quaots on 24 Items.         Kay 1990. Export incentives lqwoved        to reje  tariff levels furth
- lwving the Nay 6 Schem.             by abolishing export restrietIons on       In stesm  so that by 1992 few
4 items and easing restrictions on        rates lle above a 20-301 range.
1986-88. 4 trade reform packages       2 Item.
renaved 839 item from licence
control. Ites included chedcals.    Import controls removed on ships of          Contitue to strngthen 601 capacity
ron & steel, aengineering goods        5000  Wt and above and restrictions       for analysis an trade & irAmtelal
paints & dyes, tires & t.*es, gtass    on truck imports eased.                   policy issues.
& textiles, agricultural procects,
processed food and meat, cisarettes,                                             Reduce export restrictiors further.
fertilizers and plestics. Coverage
of lTes redeced from:
43X to 211 for isport value.
- 41X to 291 for total productien.
- 68X to 45X for manu. productilon.
Nv. 1968. All isporters to be
reregistered.  Licenses subseruently
valid indefinitely.
Nov 1988. Tariffs B/or surcharges
changed an 191 items:
- Lowred (25 Items) uhare local
prices beloe existing tariffs or
there Is no domestic capacity.
- Raised (59 Items) to partially
comnsate for the removal of
- Specific duties replaced by ad
valorm dudtes (25 Item).
* aerifft split Into twriffs &
surcharge (82 item).
IN



--A
PRt-VATE SECTOAR FME  LouN 
Actlens taken 1983-85                 Actions taken 1986-88                Actions taken 1989-90                  Areas for folltt 4p
Investment sod CommItv Licenim
1985. Procedure for apvt a           198e. FleAws of investmet open to   Nay 1969. DSP list transformed           further shorten the negtive list,
lmptlmntatten of private            foreign & domstic caa1es wre         to a short negative list, making       so that evntyally only a fem
lIwetento simpltfied. Major          expmwid sahstantially & specified    the licensing process  ore             sectors would be replated due to
reorganicetfon of M  also            Mre learly. Foreign investment       attic & epening new sectors to         notioenal security or social
completed, reftlecting change In     coqsnies wr given greater acess   domestic & foreign investors.              considerwatis.
fcus from inwestmnt regulation       to domestic ftnance & doeastic
to prootIon.                         owerehip rules were essed.           October 1969. Foreign firm  alloed      Reasses the need for caaity
to Invest In Inrdstrfal estates.       expwanen licesing with a view
196J. Investmnt & cacity                                                    to eliminrting this restriction.
tlicensng systen relaxed:           Good prores in implementing
A Autoetic appral to firms to        the May 1969 reform                    ReAm remoining constraints on
increaew prodeuction by up to 301                                         foreign investment, intludfng
of liensed capaity.                Ny 1990. further deregulation           restrictions an oureshp, expert-
of investment procedres In              oriented firms (including in
agriculture and the                    agriculture) & domestic marketing
arwmwutical irdustry.                  bY foreln firm.
r         b-ng  of Irvetnt                                                  *ake loca otent  r          re
cateorles atllowing firm  to                                               flexlble. by gradially eliminating
divesify production.                                                      Impt ban & import licensing
- Aditienal fields of Investment                                            retrictions on final            &
oe nd to domestic & foreign                                                by continudin  to rela  deletien
I nestment.                                                               sctedules.
- Reiremnts for Investmnt
ien flurther streaMflned.
I9W7. Foreign iwe1tment
regulation relad
* ForeigAned companes allowed
to mrket Irndonslin eerts.
- forein fim  atltowed to
purche detic Iquts Without
rtriction.
- Rules regarding hiring of
epariate personl  relaxed.
08*
'O 



PRIVATE ffCTOR DEVLLOPaEmT WAI II
POLICY FRANioRtt
Actions taken 1983-85                 Actions taken 1986-88                 Actions taken 1989-90                  Areas for follow-up
Nov. 1968. Foreign firm allowed to
estabtish joint ventures for
dmestic marketing of own prodcts
at the wholesale level. aperating
licenses valid indefinitely &
throihout Indonesia.
Dther Reaulations
Review of corporate legal frammwork     Review local-level reulations. &
undertaken in cooperation with          lnd & labor laws & practices, to
Vortd 9dan.                             ensure they provide en appropriate
friework for private sector
develeeant.
Cantinue efforts to reform the
corporate egal system, inctuding a
review of existing laow & interim
3procssN changes                          n
C. Putlic EnterMrlse (PE) Reform
1988. President requests review of     June 1989. Ninisterial decrees Issued Proceed with the next stases of
the financial performance of PEs,      to guide reform based on a careful       ptlementation of PE reform,
to reform PEs.                         review of the finanrial performAnce of which include:
189 PEs. Review of performnce         - Prepare viable PEs that will
completed by Deceiter 1989.             not reman in the plbilc saector
sector for divestiture.
A set of corporate restructuring      - Define a core of enterprises
strategies proposed jointly by the      that Will stay p"blic ol
Ninfstry of Finance and line            fnitiste the reforms need
ministries for the varfous              to imprve their perforuce.
enterprises.                            Liquidate nrwiabte comrcial PEs.
Analyticat work to prepare
PME instructed to prepare 5-year        restructuring/divestiture program
corporate plans and anual work          for enterprises to be coordinated
program.                                by Ninister of Finance.
Signitf cant changes in the compensaton
package and accountsbilIty for memers
of PE maemnt introduced for
selected enterprises.



PRIVATE SICTM DEELOPHEM  LOuI It
POLICY FRANEOWK
Actioms taken 1983-85                  Actions taken 1986-88                 Actions taken 199-90                    Areas for follow-up
D. Infrastructure and Surmort Services
1985. Iwort and export procedures    February 1988. Compealsory scraWpng      Good progress in implementing          Continue to mnitor implementation of
reduced to a minima:  imports are    policy for shfps suspended.              maritime deregutation achieved,        the maritime deregulation measures and
now inspected at the ports of                                                 reflected in reduction in              improvements in custom procedures.
origin by 001-appointed surveyors     movea ber 1988. PaJor deregulation of   international and domestic freight
(SS), while exports & inter-          the shipping industry to:               rates in real terms.                   Initiate measures to imrove the
island traffic are no longer            Reduce & simplify business licensing                                         efficiency of ports.
subject to customs inspection.          procedures.                           Private sector participation sought
Port charges simplified &             - Allow shipping lines to determine     to provide experded port,            Develop a program to improve the
reduced, & restrictions on              their own route structure & schedule. telecwmnications and power           regulatory framework for road wid
foreign-ftlag vessels removed.        - Allou national lines to charter       generation facilities.               other transport modes.
foreign flag vessels 6 form new
joint venture cowmanes with foreign
lines.
E. Financial Sector  eveloment1
1983. Flnncial reforms                1987. Equity markets strengthened:    March 1989. Ceiling on offshore          Further strengthen prudential
introduced to:                        - Institutional framework for         borrowing by banks 8 lSFIs reed          regulation, especially for bank
- Rem  most interest rate               capital markets improved.           & replaced with a limit on foreign     supervision:
controls en state bank deposits.    - Listing requirements on the         exchange exposure to 25X of equity.      Apy consistent reglations
- Eliinate credit ceilings for          Jakarta stock exchange                                                         for state £ private  ans.
all banks.                            simplified.                         June 1989. Privately owned and           tmplement an early warni  syste
- Reduce the nxier of liquidity       - OTC market created for newer,     operated stock mrket established           for mnitoring b   perfoce.
credit programs.                      less well-established ceopanies.    in Surabaya.                            - I       the stem of ban
- Foreign Investors allowed in                                                 evaluation 8 ratings.
OTC mrket.                          Sept. 1989. Rules on foreign
investment In stocks established
allowing foreign purase of up to
49X of any new or existing Issues
of nn-bank shares.
April 1990. Now trad1ng rules to
iprove trading operations on the
Jakarta stock market.
O0
'0



INDONESIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN II
POLICY FRAMEWORK
Actions taken 1983-85                  Actions taken 1986-88                 Actions taken 1989-90                   Areas for follow-up
1985. Iv money market instrument    Oct 1968. Measures to enhance           Jan. 1990. A sweeping reform of the      Introduce new legislation to codify
(SBPU) introduced to enhance          competition, increase the supply of   liquidity credit system anooumced.       & streamline regulatory framework
the flexibility of money market.      long-term furds & promote stability   This timited the scope of liquidity      for central bank, comercial banks.
in the financial syetem:              credits to only 4 programs and           insurance companies & pension funds
Issue new licences                  also raised interest rates for these
including joint ventures with       remaining programs closer to market      Continue implementing the reform of
foreign banks.                      levels.                                 the liquidity credit system, reducing
the outstanding stocks of such
-Easeonopeg Steps taken to strengthen bank  credits by about Rp.5 trfilion by
- Ease restrictions on opening      sprionicldg:eraization   March 1991.
new branches of banks & ISFis.      of the supervision department;
- Allow new rural banks to be       increasing the number of examiners; and  _onduct audits of the state banks. &
established In districts            designing & testing questionnaire for   prepare a program for restructuring &
(outside capitals).                 early detection of potentially         recapitalization. Inprove the legal
Ease the requirements to become     unsoaud banks.  Technical assistance    and eccownting framwork for the
a foreign exchange bank.            arranged from IMF, World Bank          finrncial sector.
Altlow ptltic enterprises to         and other sources.
place 50X of their deposits                                                Bolster marapriel and technical
with private banks &  BSFts.                                               expertise in finamcial Institutions.
- Allow NlFls to Issue Cos.
- Levy a 15X withholding tax on                                                Place stock exchange under private        .-
time deposits S CDs to remove                                                operation and owership to allow
discrimination against other                                                 BAPEPAM to concentrate on supervision
financial asets.                                                             and regulation.
-Allow banks & N1Fls to raise
capital from securitles market.                                              Extend maturities of Sl1s.
- Define loan concentration ratios
& mninim capital requirements
for banks & IlFls.
- Estabifsh a uniform a lower
reserve requirement (2Z) for
banks.
* Extend the maturities on
monetary InstrLments & develop
the secondary market.
- Relate the resuap premium to
Interest rate differentials.
03



-55-                             A*    V
Page 9 of 9
IL
ii            a
4...0



- 56 -                        Annex VI
Page 1 of 10
IMPLF?MENTATION AND IMPACT OF REFORMS SUPPORTED BY
FIRST PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Introduction
1.       The external environment faced by Indonesia worsened considerably
in the 1980s, with sharply lower oil prices. The losses from falling oil
prices were intensified by the adverse effects of international currency
fluctuations on debt service payments during 1985-88. On average,
Indonesia suffered an income loss equivalent to 9Z of its annual GNP due to
external shocks over 1983-88. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has
responded effectively to this challenge, taking decisive actions to
restrain demand, mobilize domestic resources and set in train the
structural changes needed to develop the non-oil economy. The World Bank
has provided strong support to GOI's reform program through two trade
policy adjustment loans of US$300 million each (approved on February 3,
1987 and May 10, 1988, respectively) and a private sector development loan
(PSDL I) of US$350 million (approved on June 6, 1989).
2.       The performance of the first and second trade policy adjustment
loans was recently reviewed by OED and the findings were reported to the
Board on June 30, 1989.11 Regarding implementation of appropriate policies
and associated economic performance, the overall assessment of the OED
report was: 'The policies and measures for attaining economic stability
necessitated reductions in Government expenditure, monetary restraint, high
interest rates, improved fiscal effort, removal of pricing policy
distortions, and exchange rate competitiveness. The economy's structural
disequilibria were addressed by policies to liberalize foreign trade and
dismantle the complex regulatory environment.... This shift in economic
strategy yielded considerable dividends. The growth of inflation slowed
down, budgetary and external current account deficits were reduced, and
foreign exchange reserves strengthened. Important structural changes have
occurred. A striking feature is the rapid increase in the growth of non-
oil economy and an outstanding non-oil export performance.... The export
base has been diversified in ways that could not have been contemplated a
few years back". (Summary and Conclusions, page xxi).
Objectives of PSDL I
3.       The objectives of PSDL I were to develop the private sector by:
(a) supporting the substantial reforms undertaken by the Government during
1988 and early 1989, and ensuring that they were implemented well;
(b) assisting the Government to bring about an early recovery in economic
activity, consistent with external and internal financial stability; and
(c) maintaining the policy dialogue on further reforms to promote the
efficiency and longer-term viability of the economy. These objectives were
to be achieved in part through support to the balance of payments and in
part through our ongoing dialogue on policy issues. In addition to
providing direct financing for general imports, the loan played a catalytic
1/ Program Performance Audit Report, Indonesia: First and Second Trade
Policy Adjustment Loans (Loans 2780-IND and 2937-IND), Report No. 7947,
OED, June 30, 1989.



- 57 -                        Annex VI
Page 2 of 10
role in mobilizing US$1.6 billion of fast-disbursing special assistance
during 1989190. These additional resources have provided the necessary
underpinnings for the adjustment program, and have helped to achieve a
rapid pace of economic growth and private investment.
Implementation of the PSDL I Reform Program
4.       PSDL I supported important policy reforms in five major areas:
macroeconomic management, trade, investment licensing, transport (maritime
transport) and financial sector.
5.       Macroeconomic Management.  A key prerequisite for the success of
the GOI's reform program is sound macroeconomic policies.  The Government
implemented a prudent budget for 1989/90, including a very strong effort to
boost non-oil revenues. Three new revenue-augmenting measures were
introduced: (i) the VAT tax base was extended; (ii) audit efforts for
income taxe; were strengthened, while preparations for the comprehensive
auditing of VAT returns were initiated; and (iii) tax administration was
strengthened with a reorganization of the Tax Directorate and the
appointment of new higher level staff. As a result, non-oil taxes of the
Central Government are estimated to have expanded from 10? of non-oil GDP
in 1988/89 to 11.22 in 1989/90. Furthermore, power prices were increased
by an average of 25% in April 1989 while fertilizer prices were raised by
162 in October 1989. These measures improved public finances, while also
providing better price signals. A flexible exchange rate policy was
maintained, with the nominal effective exchange rate depreciating by 2.3?.
6.       Trade Policy.  Since the mid-1980s, the GOI has embarked on a
series of trade and deregulation measures to improve the competitiveness of
domestic production. Measures supported under PSDL I further extended the
program of trade policy reforms. A major package of new trade policy
measures was announced in November 1988. A further 295 items were removed
from restrictive import licences, accounting for an additional 172 of all
items and 10  of import value previously restricted.  The reduction in the
share of total domestic production protected by import licensing was much
larger than in previous packages, declining from 38? at end-1987 to 292 by
end-1988 (see Table 1). This reflected GOI's aim to push the reform effort
into the agriculture, food and beverages sectors (e.g., tobacco, rubber,
fruits, palm/coconut oil, processed meat, cigarettes), which constitute a
large share of domestic value added and were largely untouched by earlier
reforms. With respect to manufacturing, the November package is
significant in that it removed all license restrictions on fertilizers as
well as plastics, a hitherto difficult area of reform, and made further in-
roads into the steel and textile subsectors. The November package also
adjusted tariffs and/or surcharges on 191 items, including 25 items for
which specific duties were replaced by ad valorem duties. Apart from 11
footwear items, all these tariff and surcharge changes were brought within
the lower ceiling (60?) established in March 1985. In addition, Indonesia
moved to the new Harmonized System of coding and classifying items from
January 1, 1989. The implementation of these reforms has proceeded
smoothly. The issuance of import licenses is fairly quick and non-
discriminatory, and discussions with the business community suggest that



- 58 -                        Annex VI
Page 3 of 10
information regarding the reforms was quickly disseminated to the firm
level.
7.       The removal of NTBs has had three beneficial effects on the
pattern of incentives. First, the move towards tariff-only protection has
greatly increased the transparency of the trade regime. Second, the price
of imports has fallen relative to the price of exports since 1986. At
least part of this decline reflects the removal of restrictive import
Table 1: IMPACT OF REFORM PACKAGES ON IMPORT LICENSING COVERAGE
Coverage                             Nid-1986    End-1987    End-1988
Z of CCCN items                              31.5        21.7         16.3
Z of import value                            42.9        25.2         20.8
1 of total domestic production               41.4        37.6         28.9
Memo item:
1 of domestic production in;
Manufacturing                              67.7        58.1         44.5
Agriculture                                53.8        52.9         40.9
Mining and minerals                         O.Z         0.2          0.2
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
licensing requirements. This increased the incentive to produce for export
relative to import substitution. Third, domestic users of deregulated
imports have benefitted not only from lower prices but also from more
certain delivery times and improved quality. Such non-price factors are
crucial for export production and encourage domestic producers of inputs to
become more cost and quality conscious.
8.       Investment Licensin8.  PSDL I also supported further reforms in
the areas of investment licensing and regulation of foreign direct
investment. Through reforms over 1985-87 period, the investment process
has been streamlined and made less restrictive. Importantly, the policy
stance has shifted from control to encouragement of investment. In this
regard, the May 1989 reform supported under PSDL I was a fundamental
change. By this initiative, the Government replaced a long list of
activities open to both domestic and foreign investment with a short list
of activities that were closed. In formulating this negative list, there
was a conscious attempt to keep the number of restricted sectors to a
minimum and to remove the ad hoc conditions that had been introduced over
the years. The reforms to investment licensing have opened up more
activities to competition and enhanced the transparency of licensing
procedures. The changes also reduced the distinction between investment by
various types of domestic companies and between domestic and foreign
companies for the purposes of licensing.



_ 59 _                        Annex VI
Page 4 of 10
9.       In parallel, the Government has taken steps to improve the
attractiveness of Indonesia to foreign investors. Various packages of
reforms since 1986 have addressed concerns of foreign investors on several
fronts and, in particular, eased ownership controls on investment in
export-oriented activities and other priority areas. Moreover, the period
for conversion to domestic majority ownership has been extended. Further
easing of restrictions on access by foreign investors to export credit and
marketing has also taken place. Foreign companies are now permitted to
take over local firms if investment is in a priority area and 20Z of equity
remains under domestic ownership.
10.      The implementation of the negative list and approvals of foreign
investment have both proceeded well. Investors have reported that
investment applications are being processed and approved speedily on the
basis of the negative list. The response to deregulation of investment has
been a sharp increase in domestic and foreign investment. Domestic
investment approvals, which had sagged in the mid-1980s, doubled in 1987
and increased by a further 40Z (in dollar terms) in 1988. The rate of
increase was about 311 in 1989. Similarly, after recording a sharp and
steady decline since 1983, foreign investment approvals increased by 78% in
1987 and a remarkable 3002 in 1988 to reach US$4.4 billion. The approvals
of foreign investment continued to grow, reaching US$5.6 billion in 1989.
Moreover, unlike the 1970s and the early 1980s, when the bulk of the
private investment was oriented towards the domestic market, most new
investment approvals are directed towards export activities.
11.      Transport sector.  In the transport sector, the Government has
made concerted efforts to deregulate and remove impediments that previously
were the cause of widespread inefficiencies. These reforms have focussed
initially on the maritime sector and have resulted in some impressive
improvements in performance and quality of service. The major reform
supported by PSDL I--called PAKNOV 21, was issued on November 21, 1988.
The measures includeds greater f:eeuom of entry into different types of
shipping activity, removal of restrictions on routing, and the alility to
charter foreign vessels of any size or type. More recently, the iRn on
importing vessels below 10,000 DWT has been reduced to 5,000 DWT. By March
1990, it is reported that orders for 17 vessels between 5,000 DWT and
10,000 DWT have been placed.
12.      With these reforms, Indonesia has moved towards an efficient,
responsive and user-oriented shipping industry. The Government has now set
up a regulatory framework conducive to the development of an efficient
maritime transport industry. The benefits of deregulation have been
compounded by those stemming from technological innovation, in particular,
containerization. Deregulation has resulted in improved services and has
better integrated Indonesia into the international shipping network,
particularly through feeder services into Singapore. In domestic shipping,
important changes are also taking place, including increased use of
tug/barge combinations and special purpose vessels. Equally important have
been changes to freight forwarding and the promotion of door-to-door
transportation. The rates for international shipping have declfned
significantly, both in absolute terms and relative to rates from other
regional ports that feed Singapore. For example, on the main feeder line



- 60 -                       Annex VI
Page 5 of 10
between Jakarta and Singapore, freight-all-kind (FAK) rates (per 20 ft.
container), which have reportedly been as high as US$450, had fallen to
US$200 by mid-1989. Although improvements have been observed in the
quality of servike on domestic routes, it is still too early to discern
significant change in prices.
13.      Easing entry restrictions to different sections of the shipping
industry fostered competition and stimulated restructuring to adapt to the
changing market requirements imposed by rapid containerization.
Deregulation has allowed national-flag shipping companies to make their own
routing decisions, charter in tonnage from overseas and choose whether to
dock their ships within Indonesia or overseas. These factors have
introduced flexibility into the evolution of the shipping networks (liner
and tramp) and into the choice of type, size and docking of vessels.
Concerns that deregulation would lead to a reduction in actual service to
outports do not appear to have been validated. To date, actual service
frequencies to such ports appear in general to have increased. A major
benefit of deregulation is the freedom for a tramp market to develop
according to the needs of shippers.
14.      Financial Sector:  Indonesia's progress with financial sector
reforms has been particularly impressive. A series of reforms was
introduced over 1983-88 to deregulate interest rates, replace credit
ceiling with reserve money management, and increase competition through
easier entry by private domestic and foreign banks. The reforms of
October-December 1988 supported under PSDL I substantially deregulated the
financial sector entry and operating rules, and promoted the growth of the
capital market. A start was also made to improve the soundness of the
financial system. The successful implementation of the financial sector
measures is well reflected in the results. In 1989, 36 new domestic banks
and 14 new joint-venture banks were established. Seventy-five new rural
banks were set up and 11 rural banks became commercial banks. The overall
number of financial intermediaries has risen from 6,085 in 1988 to 7,794 in
October 1989, a 18? increase (see Table 2). Stronger competition among
banks fostered by the reforms is reflected in the falling share of deposits
held with state banks as new banks aggressively bid for customers using new
or better-priced services. These developments have been accompanied by
rapid growth in assets (182 in 1989). For the year through September 1989,
deposits of all kinds at deposit money banks have increased by 322.
Maturities have lengthened, with the highest growth in 6 and 12 months time
deposits. This has been matched with a lengthening of the loan maturities.
Between December 1988 and September 1989, Rupiah loans with tenor of six
months or less have actually fallen. Loans of 6 months to one year rose
34Z to Rp.35.3 trillion.
15.      The response of the capital market has been even more impressive.
In the first 12 years of its existence, only 24 companies were listed.
Over half of the shares were held by Danareksa, the state underwriter which
acted as a market maker. In contrast, in 1989 thirty-nine companies
offered new issues, raising over Rp.3.75 trillion in capital. The volume
of shares traded increased eight-fold. The over-the-counter (OTC),
established at the end of 1987, and the corporate bond markets were also
more active.



Table 2:  DNONESIA:  STRCTURE AND  tOWFNH OF THE
FINANCIAL SECTOR, 1978-89 La
Number in   _Assets                                              Asse"s
1982   1968   1989.         1982      1988     1989.      1978-82    1982-98    1989*
(In billions of rupiah)        (Annual rate of change) Lb
Bank Indonesia                          1      1        1      18,707    42,445    89,388         28.4        25.4    (9-.)
Depoost money banks                   114    107      128      16,962    88,284    88,642         81.8        81.7     37.2
National foreign
exchange banks /c                  15     17      21       12,724    60,061    88,807         82.6        81.6     87.4
Foreign banks                        11     11       18       1,172     8,216      4,808        28.4        22.4     49.4
Other coumercial banks /d            60     51      81          720     4,972      8,427        U9.6        47.2     29.S
Deolopaent banks                    28     28       28       1,838     6,046      6,S06        88.1        80.4     84.9
Nonbank financial Institutions la      14     14       14         806     8,088    3,6e4*.        42.6        80.7     16.4**
Saving banks /f                         8      8        8         462     2,409      2,900        88.5        89.7     20.4
Insurance companles                    88    106      117         628   1,888.6       n.s.        86.0        23.8     n.a.
Leasing companies                      17     88       88         114     1,786       n.a.        44.0        67.4     n.a.
Other credit institutions La        5,808  5,77    7,448           88       837        579        14.8        49.2     (9.1)
All inetltutions                    8,040  6,085   7,794       81,844   111,888   181,926         30.0        28.4     18.0
Source:  Bank Indonesla:  Indoneosan Financial Statisties, data provided by the Indonesia authorities, and staff
estimates.
/a Organized financial sector; end of period.
Ab nnual cowpound rates.
2 Includes five state banks. The remainder are national private banks.
L4 National private banks undertaking only domestic currency business.
Nine Investment finance, three devolopment finance, and two other finance companies.
Ones state savings bank and two private savings banks.
L Village banks, rural paddy banks, end govorneent-owned pownehops, October 1989.
o   October, 1989
es Sept"mber, 1989
I-A
0



- 62 -                       Annex VI
Page 7 of 10
Impact of the Reform Program
16.      In terms of economic performance, the core objectives of PSDL I
were to assist GOI to:
o   maintain macroeconomic stability;
o   bring about an early recovery in economic activity by promoting
efficient private sector development; and
o   sustain progress on structural change to promote the efficiency
and longer-term viability of the economy.
17.      Macroeconomic Stability.  As noted, sound macroeconomic policies
has been a major element of GOI's reform program. This has helped in
maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment. Thus, the implementation
of a prudent budget, ci,mbined with strong non-oil revenue mobilization, has
caused the overall public sector deficit to decline from 3.2Z of GDP in
1988/89 to 1.3Z in 1989/90 (see Table 3). The current account deficit has
been reduced to below 2S of GNP, and inflation has been contained at around
6Z. The slowdown in inflation has assisted in avoiding an appreciation of
the real effective exchange rate. Although Indonesia's debt burden
remained high in 1989, with a debt service ratio of 322, all debt
Table 3: IMPACT OF POLICY REFORMS
(real growth rates, 1 p.a.)
Actual             Estimate
1984-1985   1986   1987   1988    1989
Economic activity
GDP                                        4.6        5.9    5.0    5.6     7.4
Non-oil GDP                                5.2        6.2    5.8    7.3     8.1
Fixed investment                          -5.8       -5.5    2.6   10.3    13.0
Public                                    -2.9      -19.1   -4.5   10.2     5.0
Private                                   -8.6        8.7    8.1   10.4    17.4
External trade
Non-oil exports                           10.4        4.1   25.3   14.5    15.9
Non-oil imports                          -11.8      -13.6    5.0    7.8    18.2
Other indicators /a
Domestic inflation /b                      8.1        5.8    9.6    9.3     6.3
Overall public sector balance/GDP         -3.0       -4.1   -2.8   -3.2    -1.3
Current account/GNP (Z)                   -2.6       -5.8   -2.3   -2.2    -1.8
Debt service ratio (1) /c                 25.1       38.0   35.5   36.1    32.0
La For last year of multi-year perios.
/b As measured by the 17-cities consumer price index (adjusted).
/c Debt service excludes prepayments.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics (BPS) and World Bank staff estimates.



- 63 -                        Annex VI
Page 8 of 10
indicators (e.g., debt service/exports. DOD/exports, DOD/GNP) have started
to decline.  Furthermore, these debt indicators are projected to improve
steadily over the medium term. This trend reflects the favorable debt
structure (reinforced by the availability of special assistance) and the
strong economic recovery (especially for non-oil exports). GOI remains
committed to servicing its debts on schedule.
18.      Economic Growth.  The most dramatic effect of GOI's adjustment
measures, including those supported under previous adjustment loans, has
been on economic activity. Thus, the growth of GDP averaged 5.52 between
1986-1988, and then accelerated to 7.41 in 1989, with non-oil GDP growing
even faster--by 8.1Z. The measures taken have helped to provide the basis
for a sustained recovery of growth in three ways:
(a) In response to the real exchange rate adjustment since 1986, and
accompanying deregulation measures, non-oil exports have increased
substantially from US$6.7 billion in 1986/87 to an estimated
US$14.1 billion in 1988/89, a real increase of 182 per annum.
Much of this growth has come from a diversifying base of
manufactured goods, with many small and medium-sized private firms
contributing substantially.
(b) The deregulation measures in conjunction with sound macroeconomic
management have also led to an encouraging recovery of private
sector investment, which increased by 9.32 p.a. during 1986-88 and
by over 172 in 1989. This was a dramatic reversal of the
stagnation experienced during 1983-85. Purthermore, data
available on foreign and domestic investment approvals from the
Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM) indicate that significant
amounts of these investments are planned for export-oriented
activities.
(c) The reform measures have had a positive effect on economic
efficiency. This is evident from impzovements in total factor
productivity.2/
19.      Structural Change.  Sustained progress on structural reforms has
resulted in a significant improvement in the structure of the economy with
a substantial decline in the importance of oil/LNG revenues in the budget
and the balance of payments (see Table 4). The rapid rise in the share of
non-oil manufacturing in GDP and the share of private investment in total
investment are important additional indicators of the increased diversity
of the economy and the growing role of the private sector. As a result of
these changes, Indonesia is now reliant on more promising and sustainable
sources of growth.
Social Cost of Adjustment
20.      Indonesia's policymakers have had concerns about the impact of
adju'tment programs on poverty. A recent Bank study provides an in-depth
analysis of trends in poverty during the adjustment period. The principal
21 See, Indonesia: Strategy for Growth and Structural Change, Report
No. 7758-IND, May 3, 1989



- 64 -                       Annex VI
Page 9 of 10
Table 4: INDONESIA'S ECONOMIC STRUCTURE
(X)
1981182   1985/86   1989/90
Ratios of
Oil/LNG exports to total merchandise exports /a        81.9       66.6      39.8
Non-oil exports to non-oil imports Ia                  28.6       55.2      85.8
Oil/LNG revenues to total revenues                     70.6       57.1      38.2
Private fixed investment to total
fixed investment /b                                  52.1       49.1      62.0
Non-oil manufacturing to GDP /b                         8.4       11.5      14.3
/a Goods only; in current dollars.
Lb Calendar year basis; in 1983 prices.
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
finding of the study is that Indonesia has continued to reduce poverty in
both urban and rural areas even dur'ng the difficult adjustment period (see
Table 5). The success in reducing poverty is attributable partly to the
conditions prevailing prior to the external shocks but chiefly to the
nature and the speed of the Government's policy response to these shocks.
By improving overall economic efficiency and by shifting resources away
from inward-oriented, capital-intensive activities, the reform program
allowed Indonesia to make solid progress towards restoring financial
stability while sustaining a steady growth of consumption. Public
expenditure policies also played a key role; thus, while total real
expenditure was reduced to help restore financial balance, poverty-related
expenditures were protected. Finally, the benefits of past investment
efforts, especially in terms of availability of economic and social
infrastructure, also assisted in softening the adverse effects of large
cutbacks in public investment on growth and poverty alleviation.
21.      While systematic data on poverty are not available after 1987, the
economy's strong performance during 1988-89, particularly in non-oil
manufacturing and agriculture, is expected to have had a continued
favorable effect upon poverty alleviation. First, this higher pace of
economic growth,. coupled with some improvement in the terms of trade,
enabled per capita consumption to rise by 32 p.a. during 1988-89, higher
than during 1984-87. Second, the higher growth had a positive impact on
lower income groups as illustrated by the rising trend of real wages. In
agriculture, real wages grew strongly in 1989, after a decline in 1988 due
to the effects of a drought. Overall, agricultural real wages in 1989 were
higher than in 1987.   Similarly, real wages for industrial workers rose
during 1987-89. Finally, the Government undertook an expansion of public
expenditures in the social services in 1989, which should improve the
availability of basic services to the poor.



-65 -                        Annex VI
Page 10 of 10
Table 5: PROGRESS WITH POVERTY ALLEVIATION
1976      1978     1980      1984   1987
Percentage of Poor in Total Population
Urban                                  38.8      30.8      29.0     23.1   20.1
Rural                                  40.4      33.4      28.4     21.2   16.4
Total                                  40.1      33.3      28.6     21.6   17.5
Number of Poor (millions)
Urban                                  10.0       8.3       9.5      9.3    9.7
Rural                                  44.2      38.9      32.8     25.7   20.3
Total                                  54.2      47.2      42.3     35.0   30.0
Memo items:
Gini coefficients                       0.34      0.38      0.34     0.33   0.32
Consumption share of the bottom
Zo0  of the population (Z)            8.0       7.3       7.7      8.0    9.2
Average per capita caloric intake /a    -           -      2,489    2,516  2,580
/a Calculated from Indonesian Food Balance Sheet.
Source: Indonesia: Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report,
World Bank Report No., 8034-IND, May 1990.



-66 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 7
DETAILS OF RECENT POLICY MEASURES
A.     Trade Policy Reforms
1.     Trade policy reforms were an important part of the deregulation package
introduced on May 28, 1990. The reforms included the easing of NTBs, by
moving 335 items from restrictive to unrestricted categories. The items
affected are classified as followss
o    138 food and beverage items, including various prepared fish and
meat products, vegetables and fruits;
o    7 non-metallic mineral products, principally various types of
cement;
o    6 chemical and paper items including herbicides;
o    28 rubber items, including both raw and processed products;
o    10 textile items, including various yarns and fabrics;
o    46 steel items, including tinplate and ingots and slabs;
o    82 machinery and electrical equipment items, including marine
turbines, pumps, some transformers and TVs;
o    14 transport items, largely comprising specialty products such as
track laying tractors and certain types of railway coaches; and
o    4 other items.
2.     World Bank analysis suggests that these measures will reduce the
coverage of NTBs as follows:
o    From 172 to 142 of HS items.
O    From 172 to 15? of import value.
O    From 38Z to 33? of manufacturing production.
O    From 28? to 25? for total production.
3.     The package includes tariff (andlor surcharges) changes on about one-
quarter of the 9492 tariff items:
o    tariffs were lowered on 2481 items and this has resulted in 951 of
all items being subject to a tariff and surcharge of 40S or less
(compared to 76? of all items prior to the reform);
o    tariffs were increased on 224 items, in some cases to compensate
for the removal of NTBs;
o    the remaining specific tariffs have been eliminated, being
replaced by ad valorem ratess



-67 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 7
o    the total number of split tariff items have been reduced from 592
to 429, a 27Z decline; and
o    the number of surcharges has increased from 376 to 542.  The
increased resort to surcharges represents compensation for the
elimination of NTBs, an offset to large reductions in base tariffs
and as a proxy anti-dumping measure.
4.     World Bank analysis suggests that these measures will reduce average
tariff rates as follows:
o    From 27Z to 222 on an unweighted basis.
O    From 12? to 10? in terms of import coverage.
O    From 19Z to 17? in terms of production coverage.
In addition, the dispersion of tariff plus surcharge rates has declined (from
93 to 89 as measured by the co-efficient of variation).
5.     In the deregulation package export restrictions have been eliminated on
the following products: nutmeg; produce from North Sumatra, fruits of the
tengkawang; and casia vera. Export regulations have also been eased on
processed sandalwood and aloewood. In addition, the Government has dissolved
the association of registered coffee exporters and the joint marketing group
of Indonesian coffee exporters.
6.     Recent changes in the trade regime other than those taken in the May
1990 package include:
o    the elimination of the monopoly on the import of maize;
o    the exemption from income tax (article 22) on the import of gold
ingots for making jewelry for export;
o    the temporary expansion of the import quota for light and medium
trucks.
O    the ban on importing vessels below 10,000 DWT has been reduced to
5,000 DWT; and
o    the imposition of export licensing on the export of cement and
clinker bricks.
B.     Domestic Regulations
7.     As part of the measures announced on May 1990, the Government has
extended deregulatory reform to the health and agricultural sectors. In the
health sector the measures encompass:
o    simplified procedures for approval of business licences in the
pharmaceuticals sector. Deadlines have been established for the
approval process and the administrative steps required have been
reduced;



-68 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 7
o    business licences vili now continue to be valid as long as a
company remains in business;
o    wholesaling of pharmaceutical products is now open to foreign
investment when undertaken jointly with domestic companies;
o    the procedures for application and registration of drugs has been
simplified; and
o    fees for the filing of applications for licences have been
eliminated.
8.     In the agricultural sector deregulation has taken place in the poultry,
livestock and fishing industries. In the poultry industry:
o    the ceiling on the size of farms has been lifted;
o    restrictions on foreign investment in the industry have been
eased.
9.     Likewise procedures for obtaining business licences for the livestock
industry have been simplified and streamlined as follows:
o    new licences are no longer restricted to one type of livestock
farming but are valid for all activities including breeding and
raising of livestock;
o    business licences are now valid for as long as business is in
operation;
o    the time taken to obtain a licence is to be shortened from 3 years
to less than 65 days; and
o    rejected applicants have the right of appeal to the Minister of
Agriculture, who must respond within 30 days. If a response is
not received in this time, the licence is deemed to be approved.
10.    In the fisheries sector the following measures have been taken:
o    certain licences can now be granted at the provincial level;
o    business licences are now valid for as long as a business is in
operation; and
o    smaller indigenous operations are no longer required to obtain
licences for their fishing activities. In addition, quality
control procedures on fresh and frozen fish for export have been
deregulated.



- 69 -                        ANNEX V! l
Page 4 of 7
C.     Financial Sector Reforms
Bankins
11.    On January 29, 1990 the Government announced a major reform of directed
subsidized credits, known in Indonesia as liquidity credits. The measures
were designed to limit liquidity credits to only four areas (previously some
35 sectors were eligible for liquidity credit under various terms). At the
same time GOI raised interest rates on the remaining liquidity credit programs
closer to market rates.
12.    The four remaining areas receiving liquidity credits ares
o    investment and working capital credits to farmers through rural
cooperatives (KUT). Funds are lent to the members at 162
(previously 122), with a margin of 7Z for the cooperatives.
Intermediating banks pay 32 on the 10OZ of the loan which can be
discounted with BI. Loans are not available for trade and
commerce.
o    one year credits to rural and primary cooperatives (KUD) to
finance food procurement and other productive activities. Funds
are lent at 162 with intermediating banks paying 12X on 752 of the
loan which can be discounted with BI.
O    credits to BULOG, the national buffer stock maintenance company,
for its purchases of food and sugar. The rate is set at 162
(previously between 62 and 122).
o    Investment credits made by development banks and DFIs are eligible
if loan maturity is at least 5 years. Credits are also available
to the plantation sector through commercial banks. Depending upon
geographical location, 402 or 50X of the loan can be discounted at
BI at prevailing money market rates. There are no limits on rates
charged to the final borrower. Credits for Eastern Indonesia and
plantation estate loans are exempt from the minimum maturity.
Insurance for liquidity credits, which previously had been mandatory at
artificially low rates which weakened the financial position of the state
insurance company, were made optional with rates at market-based premia. In
addition, BI will no longer share the premia with the banks. The reform of
liquidity credits is estimated by Bank Indonesia (BI) to lead in the current
fiscal year to a decline of Rp.5.2 trillion, or 302, leaving a stock of Rp.12
trillion.
13.    The January 1990 reforms also stipulated that all nationally owned
commercial banks would be required to lend 201 of their portfolio to small-
scale enterprises, excluding trade and services sector (defined as firms with
assets of less than Rp.600 million, roughly $320,000). For any individual
small borrower, the loan amount must not exceed Rp.200 million ($110,000).
Banks must meet this condition by the end of 1990. 'While no formal penalties
have been specified, BI would consider non-compliance in determining the
soundness of the banks. Foreign and joint-venture banks were excluded as they



70                          ANNEX VII
- 70 -                        Page 5 of 7
are already required to allocate 50 of their loan portfolio to the export
sector.
14.    Other measures taken included:
o    April 1990:  allowing a bank's swap position with BI as a share of
capital to reach its level prior to the March, 1989, rather than
the stipulated 25Z, for a transitional period of two years.
Restrictions were also placed on the swapping of bank capital
denominated in dollars with BI.
O    February 1990s  further easing entry restrictions on foreign and
joint venture banks by allowing them to establish branches in
Batam, an export processing zone near Singapore. The decrees
clarified that prior licensing by MOF for opening a branch in any
of the eight authorized cities is not required.
O    October 1989:  simplifying the stamp duty on checks.
o    1989:  altering BI's system for setting the daily exchange rate to
smooth foreign exchange trading.
O    1989-90: internal reorganization of BI supervisory departments,
including increasing staff and training to better oversee the
burgeoning banking sector. With technical assistance from the DMF
new systems and procedures are being developed to focus more
sharply on off-site examination and to emphasize potential risks
in on-site examinations rather than compliance with regulations.
Capital Market
15.    On April 6, 1990 BAPEPAM, the Stock Market Oversight Board, issued new
regulations governing trading on the Jakarta Exchange. The regulations were
designed to smooth trading by increasing standard lot sizes (500 shares), and
establishing special rules for trading large blocks (more than 10000 shares)
and odd lots (less than 500 shares) outside of the exchange.
16.    On September 16, 1989, MOF clarified the role of foreign investors in
purchasing Indonesian stocks. Foreigners are allowed to purchase up to 49? of
any stock issue, excluding private bank stocks. Indonesians are prohibited
from purchasing shares in excess of these limits on behalf of foreigners.
Leasing
17.    On June 5, 1990 the Ministry of Fin-ance issued a decree clarifying  and
streamlining the procedures for receiving exemptions on tariffs and taxes for
leased capital goods imports destined for use in export industries. Leases
are restricted to a minimnm of 3 years and must be reported by the leasing
company to the MOF.   -
D.     Public Enterprises



ANNEX VII
- 71 -                       Page 6 of 7
18.    On June 28, 1989 the MOF issued two important decrees covering the
operation of PEs designed to implement the Government's goal of rationalizing
the public enterprise sector.
19.    Decree 741 lays out revised planning and decision-making guidelines.
More operational authority is delegated to companies Boards of Directors or
Supervisors. These would be responsible for implementing and monitoring an
annual operational budget containing quantitative limits and targets. Work
plans are approved at a yearly stockholders meeting. Approval of the plan
will limit operational involvement of Government ministries in the daily
operations of the PEs. In addition the Boards of Directors would be
responsible for preparing and implementing a five-year corporate strategic
plan for approval by the MOF. This will allow MOF general oversight without
compromising the enterprises daily operations.
20.    Decree 740 is designed to increase the efficiency and productivity of
PEs through defining criteria for financial soundness and outlining 8
restructuring options that will be considered to improve the performance of
PEs.
21.    Financial soundness is judged on the basis of a weighted average of
profitability (measured as pre-tax profit over fixed and liquid assets less
equity), liquidity (short-term assets over short-term liabilities), and
solvency (total assets over total liabilities).
22.    The eight restructuring options are: a) change in legal status to
eliminate bureaucratic hindrances; b) management contracts with a third party;
c) mergers; d) break-ups; e) public stock issues, f) private placements; g)
formation of joint ventures; and h) liquidation.
23.    An assessment of the financial soundness and options for restructuring
of 189 PEs (out of 214) carried out by the MOF and relevant line ministries in
late 1989 resulted in the following soundness ranking:
Very Sound PEst                                  35
Sound PEs:                                       25
Less Sound PEs:                                  37
Unsound PEss                                     92
Using this and other information, restructuring actions were proposed for 112
firms:
Change in Legal Status                           16
Management Contracts                              5
Mergers                                          15
Break-ups                                         1
Public share issues                              52
Private Placements                                0
Joint Ventures                                   17
Liquidation                                       6



-72 -                          ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 7
The remaining PEs are slated to retain their current structure with efforts to
improve efficiency. All restructuring actions are scheduled to be implemented
gradually over the course of the next fe  years.  So far the following actions
have been implementedt
Change in Legal Status                           3
Management Contracts                             4
Mergers                                          3
Break-ups                                        1
Joint Ventures                                   2
Liquidation                                      2
In addition, 3 cement firms will have new shares floated on the stock exchange
after regulations eliminating restraints on their operations are decreed.
24.    On May 31 new regulations were issued concerning compensation policy
and performance review for the PE Board of Directors and Managers.



- 73 -                   ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 5
EVALUATION OF MAY 1990 TRADE DEREGULATION PACKAGE
1.       Trade reform is the central component of the May 1990 deregulation
package. The measures are part of an ongoing process of reform which commenced
in the mid-1980s. The main elements of the May 1990 reform are a shift from NTB
to tariff protection and a gradual reduction in tariffs in a tops down approach.
In addition, export restrictions on some agricultural products have been lifted.
These reforms make a worthwhile contribution to the phased reduction in levels
of protection in Indonesia. The elimination of some NTBs has led to a 101
improvement in the various coverage indicators, reducing the coverage of NTB
protection to about 252 of domestic tradeables production. Moreover, rice
production and processing account for over 60X of the domestic production still
protected by NTBs. Thus the remaining NTB restrictions on manufacturing and
other agricultural products are limited, amounting to about 92 of domestic
production. There has also been a sizeable reduction in the level of tariff
duties. About 95? of all tariff items are now subject to a tariff of 40? or
less (compared to 762 before the reform). Details on the effects of these
changes on the trade regime are outlined in the following sections.
Non-Tariff Barriers
2.       Over the last five years the various indicators of the restrictiveness
of the trade regime have shown significant improvement (see Table 1). The
number of tariff items subject to NTBs has been cut by over a half and at
Table l: IMPACT OF REFORM PACKAGES ON IMPORT LICENSING COVERAGE
SINCE 1986 /a
Hid-1986  End-1987  End-1988 IEarly 1990   May 1990
? of CCCN items                 32       22          16   1        -          -
_ of HS items                    -         -          -   1       17         14
I of import value               43       25          21   1       17         15
2 of total production                                      I
value                         41        38         29   1       28         25
Memo items
X of domestic production
coverage of NTBs:                                        I
- Manufacturing               68       58          45   1       38         33
- Agriculture                 54       53          41   1       40         38
- Mining and minerals /b    0.2       0.2         0.2   1   0.24         0.24
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
la   There is a discontinuity in the series from end-1988 due to two causes:
the shift from CCCN to the HS system of tariffs; and the update from 1985
to 1987 production as the basis for calculating production coverage
ratios of NTBS. However, this discontinuity does not compromise the
analysis of trends since 1986. It should be noted that the food,
beverages and tobacco industries are included in the manufacturing
sector.
/b   Including oil and gas.



- 74 -                      ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 5
present about 14% of all items are so controlled (corresponding to 1288
items).Import coverage of NTBs has declined by well over a half so that at
present 15% of imports are subject to NTBs. Likewise the proportion of
domestic production which benefits from NTBs on competing imports has
declined by 40S since mid-1986. At present one-quarter of domestic
production is protected by NTBs. If the restrictions on rice production
and milling are excluded, however, only about 9? of production is protected
by NTBs.
3.        Focusing on the more recent reform shows that the various
indicators of NTB coverage all improved by about 0I as a result of the May
package. The improvements shown between end-1988 and early 1990 reflect in
part a shift in the structure of production away from activities
benefitting from NTB protection. This indicates that resources are
shifting into activities in which Indonesia is likely to have a comparative
advantage.  This in turn will have a benefioial effect on economic growth
and the welfare of the community.
4.        The incidence of NTB protection varies across sectors (see
Table 2). Over 60? of NTB coverage is attributable to restrictions on
imports of rice and rice products. For such products, import licensing has
been used to achieve domestic distribution and food security objectives,
and not necessarily to protect domestic producers. After the May 1990
reforms, and excluding rice and rice milling, only about 9? of traded goods
production benefits from import licensing protection. Large reductions in
Table 2: PRODUCTION COVERAGE OF NTBs BEFORE AND AFTER THE MAY 1990 REFORM
Production Production                Contrib. to Avg.
Description       (Rp. min)   Weight  Coverae of NTBs     Coverage
1S87              Before   After  Before   After
Rice                       75so0o    0.07  100.00  100.00       7.48   7.48
Other food crops           7978868    0.08   29.85   29.86      2.27   2.27
Estate & other crops       0210871    0.06   25.72   25.72      1.62   1.52
Livestock                  5818262    0.05    7.81    7.81      0.37   0.37
Forestry                   2111200    0.02    0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00
Fishing                    2526958    0.02   28.08    0.00      0.66   0.00
Mining & quarrying        17894195    0.17    0.04    0.04      0.01   0.01
Milled rieo                8609500    0.08  100.00  100.00      8.11   8.11
Food beverages A tobacco   9508442    0.09   29.76   27.17      2.69   2.46
Textiles clothing A footwear 4882864    0.04    8.02    6.52    0.38   0.27
Wood products              8657082    0.08    0.04    0.04      0.00   0.00
Paper products             1041988    0.01   87.65   87.11      0.37   0.37
Chemicals                  8807064    0.08    5.62    2.59      0.17   0.08
Oil and gas               12581002    0.12    0.52    0.52      0.06   0.06
Non-metllic products       4006827    0.04   19.48    1.78      0.74   0.07
Basic metls                2898672    0.02   17.21    6.74      0.39   0.13
Engineerig9                6904802    0.0o   49.19   86.38      2.77   2.04
Other manufacturing         802199    0.00    2.97    2.97      0.01   0.01
Total                    104974488           27.85   25.48    27.86  26.26
A riculture               81990181    0.80   89.98   88.16    12.18  11.83
Aining, quarrying A oil   17894195    0.17    0.04    0.04      0.01   0.01
Manufacturing             56589680    0.58   29.58   25.69    16.66  13.60
Total                    104974488    1.00   27.86   25.25    27.86  25.25



75 -                    ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 5
licensing coverage took place in non-metallic products (mainly cement);
basic metals; chemical; and fish products. Now only limited and specific
product ranges within these sectors benefit from NTBs on competing imports.
In the manufacturing sector, NTBs remain extensive only within food,
beverages and tobacco, engineering and paper products. In these sectors
NTBs continue to protect over 30? of domestic production.
Tariffs
5.       Almost one-third of the 9662 tariff items in Indonesia were
changed in the May 1990 package. The vast bulk of these changes involve
reductions in tariff duties and surcharges, with the aim of establishing a
tariff ceiling of 402. At the same time tariffs on some lightly dutiable
items have been increased. The May 1990 package is a significant part of a
gradual reform of the trade regime that commenced in the mid-1980s. Over
the five year period from early 1985, the unweighted tariff has been
reduced by 40% to a level of 22Z. Even more impressive reductions have
taken place in the production-space and import-weighted tariffs. With this
most recent reform, the unweighted tariff has declined from 27S to 22Z.
The import weighted tariff has declined by almost a fifth to the current
level of 1OX. The production weighted tariff has also declined. The index
of dispersion has also declined reversing a troublesome trend of earlier
years (see Table 3).
Table 3: CHANGES IN THE TARIFF SCHEDULE SINCE 1985 a/
Pre-1985     1985  1988  1989  May 1990
Average tariff rates (Z)
Unweighted                               37          27    24    27      22
Weighted
- by import value                     22           13    15    12      10
- by domestic production              29           19    18    19      17
Index of dispersion bl                   62         108    90    93      89
a/ Includes surcharges.
b/ Measured by the coefficient of variation.
6.       The tariff structure has also been rationalized, with the total
number of items reduced from 9662 to 9492, a 2Z decline. This is largely
due to a reduction in the number of split items from 592 to 429. On the
other hand, there has been an increased resort to surcharges, which have
increased from 376 to 542 in number. The increase in surcharges reflects
in part an effort to provide temporary protection to production activities
that now face a sharp increase in competitive pressure due to the
elimination of NTBs and/or a reduction from high levels of tariff duties.



- 76 -                     ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 5
7.       The changes to the structure of the tariff schedule are summarized
in Table 4. This table shows that the reduction in duties means that the
percentage of items subject to a tariff and surcharge at or below 40% has
risen from only 16Z of all items before the reform to 95Z now. Also there
has been an increase in the proportion of tariff items dutiable at 25Z or
less, indicating that the bottom end of the tariff structure has also
improved.
Table 4: FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTION OF TARIFFS PLUS SURCHARGES
Before May 1990                     After May 1990
Tariff plus                         Cumulative                          Cumulative
surcharge   Number of Frequency  Frequency   Number of  Frequency  Frequency
range 2     Items        (Z)         (2)        Items        (2)         (Z)
0 -   5    3059       31.66      31.66         2993       31.53          31.53
5.1 -  10     766        7.93       39.59         765        8.06          39.59
10.1 -  15     410        4.24       43.83         534        5.63          42.22
15.1 -  20     913        9.45       53.28         856        9.02          54.24
20.1 -  25       26       0.27       53.55         171        1.80          56.04
25.1 -  30    1527        15.8       69.35        1911       20.13          76.17
30.1 -  35       41       0.42       69.77         118        1.24          77.41
35.1 -  40     602        6.23       76.00        1676       17.66          95.07
40.1 -  45        -          -       76.00            9       0.09          95.16
45.1 -  50     652        6.75       82.75         153        1.61          96.77
50.1 -  55        -          -       82.75            -          -          96.77
55.1 -  60    1520       15.73       98.48         176        1.85          98.62
60.1 -  65        -          -       98.48            -          -          98.62
65.1 -  70        -          -       98.48            3       0.03          98.65
70.1 - 100     110        1.14       99.62           98       1.03          99.68
100.1 - 150        4       0.04       99.66            -          -              -
150.1 - 250       30       0.31       99.97           29       0.32         100.00
250+      2        0.03     100.00            -           -        100.00
Total    9662      100.00     100.00         9492      100.00         100.00
8.       The impact of the May 1990 tariff reform at the sectoral level is
outlined in Table 5. This table shows that the tariff changes are
concentrated in the manufacturing sector, particularly in textiles and
leather, non-metallic industries and wood and wood products. Also the
tariff reduction is most evident in consumer goods as the unweighted
average duty levied on these goods has been cut by a quarter to a level of
34Z. There have been smaller reductions in intermediate and capital goods.



- 77 -                        ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 5
Table .: BEFORE AND AFTER MAY 1990 REFORM: EFFECTS ON THE TARIFF SCHEDULE
Unwel hted            Production-Weighted
Tariff Plus                Tariff Plus
Surcharoe    Tariff Only    Surcharge    Tariff Only
Before After Before After Before After Before After
Traded Goods Sector              27   22.2    26   21.2    19   16.8    16   14.8
Agriculture                     1e   15.7    le   15.4   10   10.2    10   10.1
Mining                          5    5.4      5    5.4      9    8.8     9    8.8
M:.ufacturing                  28   22.9   27   21.8    25   22.1    21   18.6
Manufacturing Sector
Food, beverages and tobacco    29   27.3    28   25.2    28   24.1  17.8   17.4
Textiles, leather and footwear    48   29.9    48   29.5    37   23.4  38.4   22.9
Wood and wood products         30   24.6    29   24.6   s8   81.9  37.8   31.9
Paper and printing             22   21.8    21   21.3    20   19.0  19.1   18.8
Chemicals, petrol and coal     1S   14.1    14   12.5    17   14.8  16.0   13.1
Non-metallic Industries        36   27.2    Se   27.1    8S   24.7  34.7   24.7
Basic metal products            1S   16.1    10   10.8    11   10.4   7.6    7.6
Metal products and machinery   23   22.4    22   22.8    36   32.4  35.7   81.7
Other manufacturing            38   32.2    88   32.2    43   38.8,  42.9   36.7
Manufacturing Products
Consumer goods                 44   33.8   42   32.6    31   27.7  26.0   22.1
Intermediate goods             16   14.8    14   13.4    18   13.8  14.6   12.6
Capital goods                  17   16.6    17   15.3    30   23.5  29.8   21.5
9.        The tariff reform has made a significant contribution towards
lowering the incidence of protection. The rationalization in the number of
items and the reduction in split tariffs has improved the transparency of
the tariff schedule. The reform will strengthen incentives for investment
in activities in which Indonesia has a comparative advantage. In lowering
costs of production the reform will also enhance the competitiveness of
Indonesia's non-oil exports.
Export Restrictions
10.       In the May 1990 package, export restrictions have been elimit.ated
on nutmeg, fruits of tengkawang, casia vera and produce from North Sumatra.
Export regulations have been eased on aloewood and processed sandalwood.
In addition, the Government has dissolved the association of registered
coffee exporters and the joint marketing group of coffee exporters. While
the deregulated items account for only a small portion total exports, the
reform continues a recent trend towards easing of restrictions on
agricultural products.



