RESTRICTED
Report No.P-510
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVElLOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
FOR A RAILWAY PROJECT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
September 15, 1966



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP4ENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE MECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOFMENT CREDIT FOR A RAILWAY
PROJECT TO THE REFUELIC OF SENEGAL
1.        I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to $9.0 million to the Republic of Senegal to finance part of the cost of
a program for the rehabilitation and modernization of its Railways.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The proposed project is the outcome of a series of consultations
during the past 2-1/2 years between the Government, the Regie des Chemins
de Fer du S6negal (R6gie) and the Association on a railway rehabilitation
and modernization program suitable for financing by the Association.
Because of the complementary nature of the project with a railway rehabil-
itation and modernization project in the Republic of Mali, which the
Association had also been requested to finance, discussions were held with
the Mali Government and its Regie du Chemin de Fer during the same period.
Both projects were reviewed by consultants on behalf of the Association in
the summer and fall of 1964, followed by an appraisal mission to Senegal
and Mali in November 1964.   In June 1965 a pre-negotiation mission to
both countries resulted in modifications in both projects which were
appraised in their final form in the spring of 1966.
3.       Formal negotiations took place in Washington in June/July 1966.
During the same period, the Mali project wasnegotiated and the interde-
pendence of the two projects called for joint negotiations on particular
matters with Senegal and Mali.    The Senegal Delegation was led by His
Excellency Habib Thiam, Minister for Planning and Development and Mr. Faly
Ba, Director of the R6gie.
4.       The Bank and the Association have not yet financed any projects
in Senegal.   The Senegal Railways, however, benefited from the 1954 Bank
loan of $7.5 million equivalent for the dieselization of the former French
West African Railways, of which the Senegal Railways at that time were a
part.   This project was successfully completed and the loan has been repaid.
5.       The Bank has under active consideration a request from the Govern-
ment to finance a project for the port of Dakar which would materially
improve the ability of the port to cope with present and expected new
traffic carried by the railway system.    The Government has also requested
financial assistance from the Bank or the Association to establish an
agricultural credit fund designed to increase yields and expand the acreage
of groundnuts.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.       Borrower:                   Republic of Senegal.
Beneficiary:                Regie des Chemins de Fer du S6n6gal.
Amount:                     $9.0 million equivalent.
Purpose:                    To meet part of the cost of rehabil-
itating and modernizing the Senegal
Railways.
Amortization:               50 years, by semi-annual payments begin-
ning February 1, 1977 and ending
August 1, 2016.   Payments to and
including the installment payable
August 1, 1986 to be 1/2 of 1% of
principal amount and each installment
thereafter to be 1-1/2%a of the principal
amount.
Service Charge:             3/4 of 1% of the principal amount of
the credit disbursed and outstanding.
Relending terms:            The Borrower will relend the proceeds
of the credit to the R6gie at 6%
interest, to be repaid in 30 years,
including three years of grace.
PART III - THE PROJBCT
7.       A report "Appraisal of the Senegal Railways Project, Republic of
Senegal" (TO-542a) is attached.
8.       The project consists of the high-priority items in the Railways'
Four-Year Investment Plan 1965/66-1968/69.   It includes the relaying of
certain lines and completion of the doubling of the Dakar-Thies line, the
purchase of locomotives, rolling stock, spare parts and equipment and the
provision of consulting services.
9.       The estimated total cost of the project, including consultant fees
and allowances for contingencies, is $13.9 million.   The foreign exchange
component is $8.5 million.   Of this amount, $0.5 million have been covered
by a grant from the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC); $1.2 million
represent the cost of three newly designed heavy-duty locomotives whose
performance remains to be proven and which for this reason have been ex-
cluded from financing by the Association.   The proposed credit would cover
the remaining $6.8 million of foreign exchange requirements, together with
$2.2 million (40%) of the local currency component and would thus finance
65% of the total project cost.   The remainder would be met by the R6gie out



- 3 -
of its own resources.   Given the fact that the Association has had the proj-
ect under active consideration since 1964, it is proposed that the R6gie
should be reimbursed from the proceeds of the proposed credit for eligible
project expenditures incurred after January 1, 1965, amounting to about $0.7
million equivalent.
10.      The major categories included in the project are:   relaying and
doubling of track $6.5 million (47%); locomotives and rolling stock $5.3
million (38%); spare parts and equipnent $1.2 million (9%); consulting
services $0.2 million (1%) and contingencies $0.7 million (5%).
11.      The imported items to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit
will in general be procured after international competitive bidding.    An
exception is, however, proposed for four locomotives, six trailers, one
breakdown crane and certain spare parts, with a total cost of $1.4 million,
where the overriding need for standardization argues in favor of negotiated
contracts.   Contracts for domestically procured materials will be awarded
after local competitive bidding, except for cement for which the prices of-
fered today by the only local supplier are competitive with those for imported
cement, before customs duties.   The works included in the project will be
carried out by the Railways' own forces.
12.      Almost all of the imported items proposed to be exempted from the
Association's normal procurement procedure have already been ordered and
partly delivered.   Lack of funds obliged the Regie to have recourse to sup-
pliers' credits.   At the recommendation of the Association, the R6gie is
negotiating with the suppliers to make cash payment of the amounts outstanding
and thereby avoid certain charges.   The R6gie would be reimbursed out of
the proposed credit for payments already made under these credits and for
the balance to be paid off in cash.
13.      The project also provides for services by a)   consultants to carry
out a detailed traffic cost study, and b) technicians to assist in the
Railways' track improvement and maintenance program.    An important part
of the consultants' and technicians' task will be assistance in training local
staff.
14.      Due to the interdependence of the Senegal and Mali Railway systems,
close cooperation between the two R6gies is essential.   A suitable framework
for such cooperation has been established in a Railway Convention, signed
between the Senegal and Mali Regies in 1963.    In addition, the Government of
Senegal and the R6gie have re-confirmed to the Association that they will
take all reasonable steps to facilitate railway operations between the two
countries.   The Association has obtained an identical undertaking from the
Government of Mali and the R6gie du Chemin de Fer du Mali in connection with
a proposed railway credit for Mali.   The Senegal and Mali Governments have
also agreed to modify the provisions in the Convention which require the same
ton/km rates and equal passenger/km fares for international traffic in both
countries.   The amendment allows either railway to introduce a different
tariff from the other in case changes in costs were to warrant it.



15.      The R6gie has been in deficit for a number of years.   However, the
Government and the R6gie have accepted the Association's recommendations re-
garding increases in certain tariffs and the gradual reduction of staff.
Together with the works to be undertaken under the project and the expected
growth in traffic, the Railways should start making a profit in the near
future.   The rates of return on the R6gie's investments are expected to
reach 4% in 1968/69, 5% in 1970/71 and not less than 6% thereafter.    The
project, expected to be completed by mid-1969, would make a substantial
contribution to the country's economic development through a technically
improved and financially sound railway system.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMIENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.      A draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, a draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation and the R6gie des Chemins de Fer du S6negal, a Supplementary Letter
on tariffs applicable to international traffic and the Report of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately.
17.      In view of the complementary nature of the Senegal and Mali railway
systems and of the interdependence of the proposed Senegal and Mali projects,
special provisions have been inserted in the credit documents.    In this con-
nection, particular attention is drawn to paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section
5.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement, which enable the Association
to suspend disbursements and, under certain circumstances, to premature the
credit, if (i) certain agreements concluded between Senegal and Mali which
provide the basis for the operation of the two railway systems have been
modified or terminated so as to affect adversely the ability of the Borrower
or the Regie to carry out their obligations (paragraph (b)), or (ii) inter-
national traffic has been substantially interrupted for other than technical
reasons, unless these reasons are manifestly beyond the control of the
Republic of Senegal (paragraph (c)).   Section 5.02 (d) also entitles the
Association to suspend disbursements if disbursements have been suspended
under the Mali Credit and if as a result thereof, it will be improbable that
the purpose of the project will be achieved.   It is also contemplated that
the Senegal and Mali Credit Agreements will become effective concurrently
(Section 6.01 (a)).
18.      The draft Development Credit Agreement provides that the proceeds
of the credit will be relent by the Borrower to the R6gie, and to simplify
the administrative procedures, withdrawals from the Credit Account will be
made directly by the Regie (Section 7.04).    The conclusion of arrangements
satisfactory to the Association with respect to the employment of the
consultants and technicians referred to in paragraph 13 above has been made
an additional condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
(Section 6.01 (b)).



PART V - THIE ECONOMY
19.      A report on "The Economy of Senegal" (AF-h4a) was circulated to
the Executive Directors on May 26, 1966.
20.      Since independence in 1960, Senegal, which used to be the ad-
ministrative, commercial and industrial center of French West Africa, a vast
area inhabited by some 20 million people, has by and large successfully ad-
justed to the situation of a country with 3.4 million people.    Per capita
income for the population as a whole is about $190 per year, but very un-
evenly distributed between the Dakar area and the rest of the country.
21.      The adjustment was achieved in spite of a narrow resource base -
groundnuts are the main commercial resource - owing largely to a smooth
transition after independence, substantial assistance from France and con-
tinued sound internal and external financial managenent.    Current expenditures
have been maintained below revenues, in spite of the increased burden of sov-
ereignty; the investment effort has been reasonable in size, and is generally
well directed and soundly financed.    Private investment has been encouraged
and external indebtedness has been kept low. Government services have not
yet been fully scaled down to Senegal's present needs but have performed ade-
quately in rather difficult circumstances.
22.      Medium-term prospects, however, are obscured by the relative scarcity
of rapidly productive investment opportunities, combined with the emergence or
continuation of a number of deflationary factors due, in part, to the planned
and gradual withdrawal of French troops and other services.    French expendi-
tures in Senegal are accordingly declining while the cost of operating some
of the formerly joint installations is now borne increasingly by Senegal.
The system by which France guaranteed a price and market for Senegal's ground-
nuts is being eliminated in accordance with EBC policy and Senegal will soon
have to sell its groundnuts at fluctuating and generally lower prices than
in the past.   Finally, Senegal has lost, and cannot expect to regain, most
if not all, of the former French W4est African market.
23.     W4hile Senegal retains some margin of creditworthiness, it will have
to continue to rely heavily on external assistance for its development.    In
view of its poverty, of its good economic and financial management, and of
its limited prospects for long-term growth and expanding export earnings, it
is both desirable and justified for external assistance to Senegal to be ex-
tended as much as possible on soft terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 6 -
PART VII - REC0OMINDATION
25.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal in an
amount equivalent to U.S. $9,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Senegal in an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million United States dollars (U.S. $9,000,000), to mature on and prior to
August 1, 2016, to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and con-
ditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the form of the Development Credit Agreement (Railway
Project) between the Republic of Senegal and the Association and the form
of the Project Agreement (Railway Project) between the Association and the
R6gie des Chemins de Fer du S6n6gal, which have been presented to this
meeting.
Attachment                                    George D. W4oods
President
September 15, 1966



