CREDIT NUMBER 96 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1966


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 96 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1966


﻿~Dopopment Turbit Agrr~ment
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1966, between REPUB-
LIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the R6gie des Chemins de
Fer du Senegal (hereinafter called the Regie), an agency
of the Borrower, have requested the Association to assist
in financing part of the R4gie's Second Four-Year Invest-
ment Plan, 1965/1966-1968/1969 (hereinafter called the
Investment Plan);
WHEREAS the Regie will, with the Borrower's assistance,
carry out such Investment Plan and the Borrower will as
part of such assistance make available to the Regie the
proceeds of the development credit provided for herein;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (here-
inafter called the Mali Development Credit Agreement),
between the Republic of Mali and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make a development credit to the
Republic of Mali to assist in financing part of a program for
the rehabilitation and modernization of the railways of the
Republic of Mali (hereinafter called the Rehabilitation
Program);
WHEREAS the Investment Plan and the Rehabilitation
Program will be carried out simultaneously in view of the
complementary nature of the Senegal and Mali railway
systems;
WHEREAS the Association is willing on the basis of the
foregoing, to make a development credit available on the


﻿4
terms and conditions provided herein, and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the R,gie and the
Association;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to the Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 of the Association dated June 1, 1961,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications
thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1 as so
modified being hereinafter called the Regulations):
(a) The second sentence of Section 2.02 is amended by
deleting the words "at the same rate" and substituting
therefor the words "at the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/, of 1  ) per annum ".
(b) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is
to be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit
(ire to be Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in
the respective currencies of the countries from
which such goods are acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures for goods pro-
duced in (including services supplied from)
the territories of the Borrower, in such
currency or currencies as the Association


﻿5
shall from time to time reasonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the etrrency in which
the cost of the goods financed out of such
proceeds has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from time
to time agree on any other currency in which
withdrawals shall be made."
(c) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03 as
follows:
"Section 3.04. Purch(se of urreicy of lithdrawd
with Other Ourrenc. If with(lrawal shall be made in
any currency which the Association shall have pur-
chased with another cur1rency for the purposes of such
withdrawal, the portion of the Credit so withdrawn
shall be deemed to have beeni withdrawn from the
Credit Account in such other currency for the purposes
of Section 3.03.''
(d) Section 3.04 is re-numbered Section 3.05.
(e) The first sentence of Section 4.01 is deleted.
(f) The words "or the Project Agreement" are inserted
in Section 6.02 after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement".
(g) Section 8.04 is deleted.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a) the term "Project Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Association and the
R6gie;
(b) the term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
loan agreement b)etween the Borrower and the Regie
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement;


﻿6
(c) the term "Railways" means the railways owned, oper-
ated or administered by the Regie and includes all railway
property, equipment and materials owned, operated or
administered by the R6gie;
(d) the term "International Traffic Agreement" means
the agreement dated June 8, 1963, between the Borrower
an(l th- Repulmic of Mali relating to international railway
traffic, as the same may from time to time be amended by
agreement of the parties thereto;
(e) the terni "Customs Agreement" means the Accord
douanier dated June 8, 1963, between the Borrower and the
Republic of Mali, as the same may from time to time be
amended by agreement of the parties thereto;
(f) the term "Railway Convention" means the Conven-
tion. dated June 8, 1963, between the R6gie and the R'gie du
Chemin de Fer du Mali, as the same may from time to time
be amended by agreement of the parties thereto; and
(g) the term "Statutes" means the Decree No. 64.835 of
December 17, 1964, published in the Journal Officiel No. 3720
of January 9, 1965, of the Borrower, relating to the recr-
ganization of the Regie.
A-ATICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a develop-
ment credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit fo si-h Credit Accoinit the amoni of the Credit. The
amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancel-


﻿7
lation and suspension set forth in, the Development Credit
Agreement.
SE:CTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of the Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account: (a) such amounts as shall have
been expended for the reasonable cost of goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (b) if the
Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be required
by the Borrower to meet payments under the foregoing;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures prior to January 1, 1965.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1o) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual instalments payable on each February 1 and
August 1 commencing February 1, 1977 and ending
August 1, 2016, each instalment to and including the instal-
ment payable on August 1, 1986 to be one-half of one per
cent (/, of 1o) of such principal amount, and each instal-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2o)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project. The specific goods


﻿8
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
methods and procedures for procurement of such goods
shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower,
the Association and the R6gie, subject to modification by
further agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to
be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with   ound engineering, railway and financial
practices.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement with the R6gie, satisfactory to the Associ-
ation, which shall provide for the relending of the proceeds
of the (redit or the e(Iiuivalent thereof by the Borrower to
the R'gie and shall contain appropriate provisions with
respect to the financing and carrying out of the Project and
other obligations of the Borrower and the Regie under the
Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not amend, assign, abrogate or waive any
provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make
available to the Regie, promptly as needed, all funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources which shall be required
for the carrying out of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Regie punctually to
perform all its obligations under the Project Agreement,
shall take all action which shall be necessary on its part to


﻿9
enable the Regie to perform such obligations and shall not
take or permit any action to be taken that would interfere
with the performance of such obligations by the Regie.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic con-
ditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and
the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit or the maintenance
of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit any
part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related
to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.06. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territories on or in connection with the exe-
cution, delivery or registration thereof.


﻿10
SECTIOx 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall from time to time
take or cause to be taken such steps (including, but without
limitation, adjustments in the rates and fares of the R6gie)
as shall be required to provide the Regie with revenues
sufficient, by such date or dates as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower, the Association and the R6gie:
(i) to ensure a reasonable return on the Regie's net fixed
assets, after covering all operating expenses, including ade-
quate maintenance and depreciation; and (ii) to enable the
Regie, out of its cash resources, to meet debt interest and
amortization, to establish and maintain adequate working
capital, aiid to fiiiance a material part of its capital expendi-
tures.
(b) Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
make arra: -ements, satisfactory to the Association,
promptly to provide the Regie or cause the Regie to be
provided, during such time as the R6gie's revenues shall be
insufficient to meet the items in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, with funds sufficient to meet such items.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall take or cause the Regie
to take such action as shall be reasonable in the circum-
stances to facilitate railway operations between its terri-
tories and the territories of the Republic of Mali, in accord-
ance with the International Traffic Agreement, the Customs
Agreement and the Railway Convention.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or
(ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations or in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any


﻿11
subsequent time during the continuance thereof the Associ-
ation, at its option, may declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and
upon any such declaration such principal shall become due
and payable immediately, anything i1 the Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary iotwi%hstanding.
SECTION 5.02. Pursuant to paragraph (j) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations, the following are specified as additional
events for the purposes of said Section:
(a) The Regie shall have failed to perform any of its
covenants or agreements under the Project Agreement;
(b) The International Traffic Agreement, the Customs
Agreement, the Railway Convention or the Statutes shall
have been amended, suspended, waived, terminated or
repealed so as to affect adversely the ability of the Borrov er
or the R6gie to carry out the covenants or agreements set
forth in this Agreement or in the Project Agreement;
(c) Railway traffic between the territories of the Bor-
rower and the territories of the Republic of Mali shall have
been substantially interrupted for other than technical
reasons, unless such reasons shall be manifestly beyond the
Borrower's control;
(d) The right of the Republic of Mali to make with-
drawals under the Mali Development Credit Agreement
shall have been suspended or terminated in whole or in part
and as a result thereof, it will be improbable that the pur-
pose of the Project will be achieved; and
(e) Failure by the Borrower to fulfill an obligation to
make payment of principal or interest or any other payment
required under this Development Credit Agreement or
under any other development credit agreement between the
Borrower and the Association or under any loan agreement
or guarantee agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
or under any bond delivered pursuant to any such agreement
even though payment has been made by other persons.


﻿12
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01
(b) of the Regulations:
(a) That either concurrently with or prior to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement becoming effective, the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Mali
Development Credit Agreement shall become or shall have
become effective and constitute valid and binding obligations
of the respective parties to those agreements in accordance
with their respective terms; and
(b) That arrangements, satisfactory to the Association,
shall have been made with respect to the employment by the
Regie of the consultants and technicians referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the R'gie, that all acts, consents and approvals necessary
therefor have been duly and validly performhed or givell,
and that such Project Agreement coi]stitutes a valid and
binding olligation of the Rgie iii accordance with its
terms; and
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the parties thereto, that all acts, consents and
approvals necessary therefor have been duly and validly
performed or given, and that such Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
parties thereto in accordance with its terms.


﻿13
SECTION 6.03. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by January 1, 1967,
this Development Credit Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Associ-
ation, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for purposes of this Section. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Regie of such later date.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.07 and 4.08
of this Agreement shall forthwith terminate.
ARTICIQ4 VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1970
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministire du Plan et du D6veloppement
Dakar
Senegal
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Ministere Plan
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America


﻿14
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 7.03. The Ministre du Plan et du Developpement
of the Borrower is designated for the purposes of Section
7.03 of the Regulations.
SECTION 7.04. The Borrower irrevocably designates the
R6gie for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.03
of this Agreement and Article IV of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in their
respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By s/ H. THIAM
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President


﻿15
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the major part of the Investment
Plan. The purpose of the Project is to rehabilitate and
modernize the Railways, to improve their safety and
increase their capacity to meet higher levels of traffic and to
permit them to operate more efficiently, and to achieve and
maintain a sound financial position, taking into account the
complementary nature of the Senegal and Mali railway
systems. The Project includes:
1. The relaying with 36 kg/m rails of the Khombole-
Guinguineo-Kaolack line (approximately 130 km); the com-
pletion of the doubling of the Dakar-Thibs line and the
construction of the Dagoudane-Pikine marshalling yard
(approximately 18 km); and the welding and ballasting of
approximately 147 km of other lines.
2. The acquisition and operation of 8 main-line loco-
motives, 3 shunting locomotives, 5 railcars, 14 trailers, 16
gangears and 1 breakdown crane; the acquisition of com-
ponent parts for about 100 freight cars and the assembly of
such freight cars; the acquisition of adequate spare parts
and of adequate workshop, track maintenance, signalling
and other related equipment.
3. The employment of consultants and technicians to
assist the Regie in improving its operations and adminis-
tration.


