                                                                                                    95247
Results Profile: Turkey Energy                                                                   March 4, 2010




 OPENING THE MARKET

 Turkey's Reforms for a Sustainable Energy Future




Overview
Turkey’s energy reforms have helped the government turn a monolithic, state-run sector into a
competitive energy market that has connected an additional 4.6 million households to a more
stable electricity grid.

  Full Brief—4 Pages
Turkey’s Comprehensive Energy Reform Program puts Development on a
Sustainable Path—PDF, April 2010


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
Energy is critical to building and sustaining
                                                       Slideshow: Clean Tech in Turkey
economic growth. Turkey faces increasing
domestic energy demand and rapidly growing
greenhouse gas emissions, a large portion of
which come from energy production and usage.
To meet energy demand with the least negative
environmental impact, Turkey is seeking to
increase its reliance on renewable energy while
promoting energy efficiency among power
consumers.


Approach
The government of Turkey, with IBRD support, is
                                                      MORE
transforming its energy sector to increase
competition, expand private investment and              Turkey: Making Use of Trash 
promote sustainable use of its renewable energy
resources.

The Ministry of Energy and Treasury takes the lead in
                                                                    More Results
determining the overall strategic direction going forward, and
jointly with the Bank, determines the most optimal usage of

                                                                    4.6m
Bank instruments in maintaining the direction.

Currently, the Turkey energy program is being supported by
a number of International Bank for Reconstruction and               Turkish households are
                                                                    estimated to have received
Development(IBRD) investment loans, policy loans and                improved power supply
policy advisory work including the National Transmission
Grid Project, Turkey Energy Community of South East
Europe (Adjustable Program Loan #2 and #3), investment
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
loan for renewable energy and energy efficiency, as well as
Programmatic Energy Sector Advisory Work (energy policy              Turkey Country Office
notes, Turkey energy strategy and others).

IBRD has supported Turkey’s energy reforms significantly         PARTNERS
over the last decade by utilizing the full range of World Bank
                                                                   Ministry of Energy in Turkey:
lending and technical support in ways that complement and
reinforce each other. The program includes restructuring,          Turkey Electricity Transmission
liberalization and privatization in energy; introduction of        Company
competitive markets; financing of key rehabilitation and           Petroleum Pipeline Corporation
expansion works; and a resulting increase in private
                                                                   Electrical Power Resources
investment.                                                        Survey and Development
                                                                   Administration

Results                                                            Turkey Electricity Distribution
                                                                   Company
Electricity supply is more reliable. The duration of faults on
                                                                   Energy Market Regulatory Board
the transmission system decreased by more than half from
26,675 hours in 2004 to 10,280 hours in 2007. More people          Undersecretariat of Treasury
have access to secure energy. Transmission expansion and           Undersecretariat of State
upgrades have enabled an estimated additional 4.6 million          Planning Organization
households to receive improved power supply. An
                                                                   Strategic, Technical and
international transmission link has also been established with
                                                                   Economic Research Center
Greece, enabling the exchange of electricity.                      STEAM Energy

Turkey has improved the efficiency of its electricity market
while increasing private sector participation in power
distribution and generation. Energy reforms supported by
                                                                
IBRD policy advisory work introduced retail competition. In
the wholesale market, more than 100 private generation
companies have been registered. Four distribution companies have been privatized so far, out
of a total of 20. Now, around 40 percent of consumers can choose their supplier -- something
that was scarcely available in 2002.

The Bank’s work in renewable energy has demonstrated the viability of financing private
renewable projects, which have grown from negligible levels in 2004 to about 1500 MegaWatts
(MW) at present. As a result of privately sourced renewable energy generation, Turkey has
been able to avoid emissions of about 1.01 million tons of carbon dioxide a year.



      Over the last few years, we have achieved significant results in
   terms of reforming the sector: an electricity market has been
   established; distribution companies have been privatized; several
   important legislations—on the electricity market, renewable
   energy, and energy efficiency— have been enacted and are now
   being implemented.  
            — Budak Dilli, General Manager of Energy Affairs at the
                                               Ministry of Energy



Toward the Future
The Turkey energy program is continuously evolving, and IBRD efforts will continue and
expand based on Turkey’s needs. Over the last decade, with the support of the Bank,
Turkey’s energy sector has transformed from one that was monolithic and state-owned into a
commercially run and liberalized market, with private investment and ownership in several parts
of the sector. The market is expected to deepen further, with increasing private ownership and
investment, and it is expected that the sector will rely more and more on clean, renewable
resources.
The World Bank’s work has helped in attracting large-scale private investment, particularly in
renewable resources. Significant new financing has been brought in to support new
investments in generation, and also in privatized distribution. Based on the country’s priorities,
the government and the World Bank are expected to sustain their important partnership, with
IBRD providing policy advice as well as investment financing for renewable energy, energy
efficiency, infrastructure, climate change and overall supply security.

 


                                                     Last updated: 2010-04-30
