Document of          , X
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 367P-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 26, 1982
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performamce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                  =    Turkish lira (TL) 100/
TL 1                       US$0.01
TL 1,000,000          =    US$10,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                          2.20 pounds
1l metric ton                                             1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton                                             0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                              1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                         0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2                               2.47 acres
1 decare = 0.1 ha                                        0.25 acre
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha                        0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                                              0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
AI        -    Artificial Insemination
DSI       -    State Hydraulic Worlks
EBK       -    Meat and Fish Organization, an SEE
EDLD      -    Encouragement and Development Loan Department of TCZB
GDAA      -    General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of MAF
GDECR     -    General Directorate of Erosion Control and Reforestation of MAF
GDFV      -    General Directorate of Forest Village Affairs of MAF
GDANB     -    General Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding
and Record Keeping of MAF
GDPPQ     -    General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine of MAF
GDVS      -    General Directorate of Veterinary Services of MAF
KOYD      -    Less Developed Regions Department of SPO
MAF       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MVA       -    Ministry of Village Affairs and Cooperatives
SEE       -    State Economic Enterprise
SEKER     -    Turkish Sugar Factor:ies, an SEE
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialists for the Extension Service
SPO       -    State Planning Organization
T&V       -    Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
TCZB      -    Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TEK       -    Turkish Electric Power Authority
TMO       -    Soil Products Office, an SEE
TOPRAKSU  -    Land and Water Development Agency of MVA
TSEK      -    Milk Industries Organization, an SEE
TYT       -    Wool and Mohair Corporation, an SEE
TZ        -    Provincial Extension Services Arm of GDAA
TZDK      -    Agricultural Supply Organization, an SEE
VEA       -    Village Extension Agent
YEM       -    Turkish Feed Industries, an SEE
YSE       -    General Directorate of Roads, Water and Electricity
(Rural Infrastructure) of MVA
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Turkey      -      March 1 to February 28/2
SEEs and TCZB             -      January 1 to December 31
/1  Exchange rate as of June 1, 1981.
/2  Turkey is in the process of changing fiscal year to January 1 to December 31.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                          1
II.  RURAL DEVELOPMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS                               2
A.  Government Policies                                               2
B.  Performance Under Previous Projects                              6
III.  THE PROJECT AREA                                                      7
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                         11
A.  Project Objectives and Brief Description                        11
B.  Detailed Description                                            12
C.  Cost Estimates                                                  23
D.  Financing                                                       24
E.  Procurement                                                     25
F.  Disbursements                                                   27
G.  Envirormental Effects                                           28
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                              29
A.  Organization and Management                                     29
B. Reorientation of Provincial Agricultural Services                30
C.  Civil Works                                                     32
D.  On-Lending Terms and Procedures                                 34
E.  Cost Recovery and Reduction of Subsidies                        36
F.  Accounts and Audit                                              37
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation                                       38
H.  International Commodity Agreements                              39
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                         39
A.  Technical Packages and Production                               39
B.  Markets and Prices                                              41
C.  Financial Analysis                                              43
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                          45
A.  Beneficiaries and Employment                                    45
B.  Economic Rate of Return                                         47
C.  Other Benefits                                                  50
D.  Project Risks                                                    51
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                       52
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatin 



Table of Contents (cont'd)
TEXT TABLES
4.1   Summary Project Cost Estimate
4.2   Project Financing Plan
4.3   Estimated Disbursements
6.1   Incremental Crop and Animal Product Yields
6.2   Incremental Production at Year Ten
6.3   Operating Incomes and Financial Rates of Return
7.1   Economic Analysis
ANNEXES
1.    Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
2.    Detailed Project Cost Estimate
3.    Related Documents and Materials Available in Project File
CHARTS
World Bank 23289: Implementation Schedule
World Bank 23290: Organization Chart
World Bank 23291;  Crop and Livestock Production Calendar
MAPS
IBRD 15985: Rural Infrastructure Facilities
IBRD 15986; Project Area



TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy
1.01     The Bank's strategy for Turkey's agriculture aims to assist the
country in achieving certain goals mutually agreed between the Government and
the Bank. These include concentration on productive projects which contribute
to significant export earnings or import savings, a reduction of bottlenecks
in priority sectors, and reduction in poverty through increased rural
employment. Since 1952, the Bank has financed 16 projects, including several
major irrigation projects and projects for credit and the development of
farmer support services in horticulture, livestock, storage and processing and
rural development.  The Bank has also financed important sectoral planning
studies as project components, including land use and pricing policies, a
master plan for the fruits and vegetable subsector, and others related to the
production, handling and marketing of important commodities and inputs. The
principal lessons derived are (a) the importance of an effective farmer exten-
sion service for irrigation development, (b) the essential complementarity of
agricultural extension, credit and reliable input supplies and price, and (c)
the need for repeater projects to pursue major policy changes and institution
building.
1.02     In 1980, with the accession of Turkey's present government, the Bank
was presented with an opportunity to formalize a longer-term development
strategy. Lending under consideration for agriculture is presently being
firmed up with the Government of Turkey as a result of a recent in-depth
review by the Bank of public investment in the sector, the delineation of
major sectoral issues arising out of the 1980 agricultural projects identifi-
cation mission conducted by the Bank (Report 3178a-TIU, May 7, 1981), and an
analysis of related macroeconomic constraints during the preparation of the
Second and Third Structural Adjustment Loans to Turkey. Following discussions
with the Government, it has been agreed that Bank support to the agricultural
sector should continue to address major production constraints, through (a)
the completion of on-going irrigation projects and related on-farm develop-
ment; (b) augmenting the availability of agricultural credit; and (c)
strengthening key farmers support services such as extension and research.
Other projects, for livestock products development, grain storage and
marketing, and horticultural development, will complement this emphasis and
help promote agricultural exports.
Project Background
1.03     It is in the above context that the Bank responded to a request from
the Government of Turkey for a Bank loan to assist in financing a second rural
development project, to be located in Erzurum province in Eastern Anatolia.
The project originated in discussions with the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF) and the State Planning Organization (SPO) and is based upon a
preparation report prepared by various government agencies and coordinated by
the SPO. Earlier recommendations of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme



- 2 -
were considered in the design of the proposed project. Cofinancing by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is anticipated, which
would be TFAD's first attempt to assist agricultural development in Turkey.
1.04     This report is based on project proposals prepared by SPO (August
1980 and May 1981) and the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in May/June 1981. The mission consisted of Messrs. R. Burcroff 11,
P. van der Veen, Mmes. N. K. Hill and S. Tillier (Bank), and Messrs.
R. Ayre-Smith, P. Franck and J. Robins (consultants). The mission was joined
in the field by Messrs. S. Asmar and B. Aklilu (IFAD).
II. RURAL DEVELOPMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
A. Government Policies
Rural Development
2.01     In view of the large disparities in rural incomes in Turkey's varied
geoclimatic regions as well as the diffuse regional mix of income generating
opportunities and constraints, the Government has not been able to establish a
comprehensive rural development progr-am in Turkey.  Even among the poorest
regions, viz. Eastern Anatolia, parts of Central Anatolia and Southeastern
Turkey, the variation in rural development needs is profound. To address this
diversity, the Government established the Less Developed Regions Department
(KOYD) within the State Planning Organization and empowered it to identify the
development needs and potential of rural settlements in the poorest regions,
program and prepare appropriate multisector projects, assist the line minis-
tries with the scheduling of related activities, and assume a coordinating
role in project implementation if no single lead agency can be identified.
2.02     The identification phase was completed in spring 1981, with the comr-
pletion of a study, "The Structure of Settlement Patterns Survey", which maps
settlement patterns throughout Turkey, and ranks the economic status and
potential of all villages and settlements according to mostly economic and
some social structural criteria. SPO/KOYD has begun to implement specific
projects, and was responsible for the final preparation of the proposed
project. KOYD also reviews all sectoral programs during the annual budgeting
exercise insofar as these will affect the less developed regions in Turkey.
2.03     A related policy will provide a complete package of physical and
social infrastructure for all of Turkey's villages. Where feasible, each
settlement will receive irrigation, rural roads, electrification and protected
drinking water. Schools, health facilities and public buildings will be
constructed in a central location for contiguous clusters of villages. The
package has largely been completed in Western Turkey and the coastal regions,
but progress has been much slower in the less accessible areas of Central and
Eastern Anatolia.
2.04     Foremost among the ministries involved is the Ministry of Village
Affairs (MVA) which is responsible for small-scale irrigation through its Land
and Water Development Agency (TOPRAKSU), and for rural roads, village water



- 3 -
supply and, until very recently, electrification through its General
Directorate of Rural Infrastructure (YSE).
Agricultural Services!'
2.05     On June 25, 1981 the MAF submitted a major initiative to the Council
of Ministers to reorganize itself in Ankara along functional rather than
commodity-based lines, consolidate a number of overlapping directorates, and
decentralize authority for coordinating the provincial arms of its technical
and service agencies. In mid-September 1981, the gist of this reorganization
plan (the details of which have been discussed with the Bank and anticipated
during the formulation of the Bank's sector strategy) was referred to MA.F by
the Council for implementation.
2.06     At the core of the reorganization is the consolidation of the
planning, programming, and budgeting of all agricultural research, extension
and livestock activities. Previously, these functions were diffused among
several of MAF's departments and little coordination was possible. A second
important feature is the consolidation of all the provincial agricultural
services under a single provincial director of agriculture, and a considerable
devolution of operational control over the provincial services and related
expenditure authority from the multifarious head offices to the new provincial
director. This aspect of the reorganization already is being implemented in
several provinces, including Erzurum Province (paras. 5.05-5.08). The third
important aspect is the reorientation, expansion and training of the existing
extension service along polyvalent lines to serve as a multipurpose service,
and adoption of elements of the training and visit (T&V) system, adapted to
the different regional conditions in Turkey, to be suitably supported by
subject matter specialists (SMS) and provided with requisite technical
packages, facilities, and mobility. The reorientation of extension delivery
is expected to meet the needs of Turkey's agricuturalists for technical advice
and assistance much more effectively than the present single-disciplinary
approach, especially in the large areas where mixed farming prevails. Because
of the sheer magnitude of the reorganization task involved, however, the Bank
has advised the Government of its view that it would not be feasible to
implement the program simultaneously for the whole country.  Rather, the
program should be started in provinces where specific projects can give the
extension service the work programs and means that are now lacking. The
extension services component for Erzurum Province in the proposed project
would both initiate Bank assistance to the program and introduce it within
Eastern Turkey.
Farm Incomes Policies
2.07     General.  Agricultural development remains the sine qua non of rural
development, a principle which is recognized by the Government. Farm income
support policies in the form of input subsidies for seed, chemicals,
machinery, a plethora of price supports, and subsidized institutional credit
1/ A summary of recent agricultural sector performance and a discussion of
its mixed-farming potential, which is germaine to agriculture in the
project area, is contained in Annex 3, C16.



- 4 -
have a long history in Turkey.  In the 1930s, these policies originally were
enacted in the expectation of stimulating production. Later, in the 1960s and
1970s, these policies were expanded to protect farm incomes from market
distortions created by the myriad subsidies and protective devices enacted to
sustain Turkey's industrialization drive.  Only recently have the farm income
policies been curtailed, of necessity, because of the huge budgetary drain
which their continuation would require.
2.08     Inputs Policies.  Input price subsidies were reduced in 1980 with
little effect on production. Plant protection materials are now sold to
farmers at cost. As a result of aL five-fold fertilizer price increase in
1980, fertilizer consumption fell by about 25% apparently without interrupting
the growth of agricultural production, as sufficient quantities were available
when needed, resulting in both a better distribution across farms and more
efficient utilization. Retail prices were again increased by an average of
60% in September 1981. As a result, the level of subsidy has been reduced
from about 100% in 1979 to 35%. The Government intends to slowly eliminate
the remaining subsidy within the coming five years, concomitant with cost-
reducing innovations in the Agricultural Supply Organization's (TZDK)
fertilizer handling and distribution ;network, and rehabilitation of the
domestic fertilizer industry under two Bank-assisted projects.
2.09     Water Charges.  The irrigation cost recovery policy of the Government
for systems constructed by the State liydraulic Works (DSI), is to recover all
costs for operation and maintenance (o&M), and investment through water
charges over a period of 50 years at nio interest. In practice, the amounts
recovered have been far less. During 1981, the Council of Ministers decided
to levy the full costs of 0&M for 1)SI irrigation schemes, to be phased in over
a three-year period between 1982-84.  For the smaller works constructed by
TOPRAKSU, no O&M and investment costs are recovered, although the mandatory
water-user associations in TOPRAKSU's small-scale schemes are required to bear
full 0&M costs under TOPRAKSU's technical supervision, which is a significant
form of indirect cost recovery, ancd which will be utilized in the proposed
project. The Government has statecd its intention to permit TOPRAKSU to
recover investment costs, and is considering appropriate legislation.
2.10     Support Prices.  Support prices had been established for 23 agricul-
tural products by the end of the 1970s, covering most of the major field crops
and animal products except fruit an,d vegetables. These were adjusted from
time to time to accommodate changing economic circumstances and objectives
(e.g., income support, price stabilization, production encouragement, regional
agricultural development, etc.). Following the political changes in September
1980, the Government has tried to depoliticize the program and reduce some of
its inefficiencies. In 1981, the number of supported commodities was reduced
from 23 to 16, and in the future such incentives will be decreed in the main
for production of important agricultural exports and import substitutes.
Income support will be deemphasized as a program objective, which is a correct
approach in recognition of the fact that small farmers first require effective
extension assistance and better access to the means of production before they
can respond to the incentives offered by price supports. SPO's recommenda-
tions for the periodic adjustments of these are now being given more weight,
and the MAF is taking steps to establish a land use and price policy
analytical capability, as provided under the Bank-assisted Grain Storage
Project (Loan 1742-TU).



- 5 -
On-Farm Investment and Financial Intermediation
2.11     Intermediation.  The private investment climate has been seriously
affected by Turkey's high inflation and general economic uncertainty, while
the coordination of private investment in agriculture and public investment
has been piecemeal and not very effective. Policy instruments already exist
that could foster a rapid expansion of private investments. Potentially the
most powerful one is the Agricultural Bank of Turkey's (TCZB) medium- and
long-term credit facility which, with its countrywide network of 1,026
branches, is the only financial institution capable of reaching farmers in
large numbers.
2.12     The Agricultural Bank.  TCZB is the largest bank in Turkey (25%: and
20%, respectively, of the total assets and total deposits of the Turkish
banking system), and holds at least 90% of the agricultural loan portfolio of
the banking system at any one time. Besides its principal responsibility as
financier to the agriculture sector, TCZB is authorized to accept private and
official deposits, to borrow from domestic and foreign banks and sources, and
to issue bonds on its own account. Within TCZB, some divisional responsibili-
ties overlap and there is need for reorganization along functional lines.
TCZB is presently reviewing the recommendations of a study by outside consul-
tants (engaged under Loan 1248-TU), whose report was submitted in May 1981.
Details of TCZB's organization and operations are summarized in Annex 3, C7.
TCZB's lending funds come from deposits received (normally around 50% of
total) and the balance, almost all from borrowings from the Central Bank.
Around 47% of deposits received during 1975-78 were non-interest earning
short-term government deposits (31%) and commercial deposits (16%); the rest
were in the form of small individual savings and other longer-term deposits
gathered by TCZB's wide network of branches. Savings and longer-term deposits
are paid interest at rates equal to those of commercial deposits and are
therefore competitive.
2.13     Operational Constraints.  After rapid growth in the 1970s, TCZB's
investment lending capability has been severely constrained in recent years by
the level and term structure of its deposits, its statutory responsibility to
finance price support agencies, and the Government's requirement that TCZB
finance a portion of the fertilizer subsidies. For the 1981 lending program,
TCZB expected that only about 14% of its deposits would be in the form of
medium- and long-term resources, with the balance consisting of short-term
demand deposits and other means (27%), and rediscount advances from the
Central Bank (59%). Since a large part of the Central Bank advances are
earmarked for financing the price support program, TCZB's discretion in the
use of its deposits to promote agricultural operations is limited.
2.14     TCZB's discretion has also been limited by its continuing obligation
to refinance overdue fertilizer procurement credits for the Agricultural
Supply Organization from its own resources. Thus, in the 1981 program for
agriculture, medium- and long-term loans were programmed to amount to only 24%
of TCZB's total operation, and short-term production credits another 20%.
Fully 32% has been allocated to the price support program, and the balance
(24%) for fertilizer procurement credits.



- 6 -
2.15     It is therefore imperative that additional sources of financing be
mobilized to permit TCZB to suppor't the Government's agricultural production
and incomes policies. Although an expansion of TCZB's borrowings from the
Central Bank is clearly out of the question under the present tight monetary
policies, the Cooperatives Law has; recently been modified in order to
considerably increase the minimum equity participation of the cooperatives'
members. This policy is expected to encourage savings by members of marketing
and credit cooperatives and thus substantially reduce their reliance on TCZB,
which carries on average 80% of its annual portfolio in loans for such
cooperatives. Additional measures are being discussed in the context of
preparation of proposed institutional credit projects.
B.  Performance Under Previous Projects
2.16     World Bank assistance to Turkey in rural development started with the
Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project, to be implemented in five years.
The objectives of the project are to (a) raise production and incomes through
agricultural extension, credit, irrigation expansion and intensification, and
(b) improve rural infrastructure through expansion and improvement of rural
roads, village water supplies, rural electrification, and social facilities.
About 80,000 farm families would benefit from increased income on both dryland
and irrigated farms.
2.17     The loan was declared effective in January 1976, but due to delays in
recruitment of national and expatriate staff, the agricultural extension work
began slowly; since 1978, however, extension work has progressed smoothly.
Problems later developed with the recruitment of suitable foremen and the
project switched to a system of trained village extension agents and leading
farmers, beginning 1980. In spite of the foreman recruitment problem, the
introduction of an intensive demonstration program, coupled with short-term
credit facilities from TCZB and easier access to inputs has had a favorable
impact on production and incomes. From 1976 to 1980, the area under rainfed
forage crops and pulses increased from 6% to 15% and fallow decreased from 46%
to 30%. However, animal health services were unable to expand at a similar
pace due to insufficient staff, and work on several of the infrastructure
components was seriously delayed, both at project inception due to coordina-
tion problems, then later because of the non-availability of materials and
cost increases. The situation has since improved and incompleted works
retendered; by June 1981, two of the four major irrigation works had been
completed except for on-farm works and part of the conveyance system.'
2.18     Project coordination has been a problem from the very start.  Overall
coordination of field activities has been lacking because it is imbued in
semi-autonomous provincial advisory committees, having neither executive
authority over the various agencies' field operations, nor empowered to draw
upon the considerable executive power of the office of the provincial governor
to effect coordination. At the central level, the project provided for a
central coordination committee, initially chaired by MAF, then later by SPO.
Central coordination has since improved but, again, the committee lacks suffi-
cient executive power to fully coordinate Turkey's hierarchically structured
technical services and, with hindsight, should have been established as a
steering committee under Turkish law wherein the committee's executive power



- 7 -
would be clearly spelled out and sanctioned by a directive from the Prime!
Minister. (The coordination arrangements for the proposed project have been
made in light of lessons learned from the implementation of the Corum-Cankiri
project (paras. 5.01-5.04)).
2.19     A second organizational constraint, now being corrected, concerrns the
organization of agricultural extension services. The project originally
established a separate extension service for the project, reporting to a
special project unit within MAF in Ankara, which was empowered to monitor the
various MAF services in the project. The parallel service was established to
Id        demonstrate the value of the T&V approach to extension, which it has done with
some success. However, the overlapping coverage of the parallel services has
led to confusion among farmers, and duplication. Currently, MAF is
integrating the project's extension service with the provincial services in
the context of the general reorganization of provincial agricultural services.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01     Erzurum province is located high in the mountains of Eastern Anatolia,
about 900 km from Ankara, astride Turkey's main highway and railway to Iran and
Soviet Armenia.  About three quarters of its population of 800,000 live in
rural towns and villages, many being located in high mountain valleys. The
remaining 25% reside in Erzurum city, the provincial capital and main
administrative center of Eastern Turkey.  Rural life in Erzur--- is extremely
hard; most villagers depend on agriculture as their primary source of income,
but productivity and rural incomes are low. The long cold winter, which
permits a growing season of only five months, the relatively mountainous
terrain where many villages are located, and minimal government services have
contributed to an inadequate agricultural and animal feed base and, conse-
quently, a high incidence of malnutrition. Their prolonged physical isoLation
during winter months, minimal village infrastructure and unsanitary water
supplies have contributed to widespread general poverty, a high incidence of
waterborne and related diseases, and fairly substantial outmigration from the
province to urban areas in Western Turkey. Most of the activities in the
proposed project will be directed towards improving the conditions of
production and infrastructure in Erzurum's mountain villages.
Topography and Climate
3.02     Erzurum has a succession of parallel mountain ranges and narrow
valleys, running east to west or northeast to southwest. The wide and inter-
connected valley basins in the Horasan, Pasinler and Central districts are the
exceptions and account for about 60% of the province's agricultural land.
Altitude ranges from 1,500 to 3,000 m, with 60% of the area above 2,000 in.
Most of the geologic fault lines and tectonic depressions are still active and
earthquakes occur periodically. The climate is continental, with severe
winters and short, relatively hot summers. The number of days with frost
ranges from 125 to 154 and in extreme years to 273 days, and with snow cover
from 78 to 119 days per year. Average annual precipitation ranges from 380 mm
to 600 mm, fairly evenly distributed between seasons, however there is
considerable variation within the province and between years.



-8-
Resource Base
3.03     Land Capability.  About 1.6 million ha of the province's 25,000 sq km
or 66% are classified as grassland and rangeland, and 370,000 ha or 16% is
cultivated. Thus mixed crop-livestock farming is the prevalent form of agri-
cultural operation. TOPRAKSU's land capability studies show about 470,000 ha
in classes which are suitable for agricultural use, though about 25% of this
estimate includes steeply sloping land and uncultivated meadows, thus culti-
vation has been extended to marginal lands.  Waterlogging, alkalinity and
salinity do not present important problems, although nearly 50% of the land is
stoney, and most suffers from some erosion.  The three most common soils are                 i
basaltic, chestnut and brown forest.
3.04     Water Resources.  The province has three major catchment areas,
draining from the northern slopes into the Coruh River and thence the Black
Sea, from the southwest into the K'arasu River to the Euphrates, and from the
eastern and southeastern slopes into the Aras River to the Caspian Sea. About
70% of the annual runoff occurs durinlg April-June from the melting snow and
spring rainfall. Groundwater resources are mainly in the central plain, which
serve the drinking water needs of Erzurum city and pump irrigation for about
16,700 ha. The quality of both surface and groundwater is excellent for
irrigation.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.05     There are about 80,000 rura]L families, averaging seven persons, all
of which engage in some kind of agricultural activity. Most operate their own
land, and nearly all have livestock. The average holding is about 6.0 ha,
which is small, considering the poor capability of the land, and is comprised
of 5.2 ha of owned land (net of land rented out), 0.7 ha rented from others or
sharecropped, and 0.1 ha from other sources (family, friends, neighbors). On
average, farms are divided into about 6 parcels, thus land fragmentation is a
serious problem, although about 87% of the land is owner-operated.l/ The
distribution of farm size is only moderately skewed, probably due to the fact
that the "fee" interest of absentee owners (usually relatives who have moved
away from Erzurum) is extinguished or transferred to the cultivator within a
fairly short period of time.
Production
3.06     Crops.  The most characteristic feature of agricultural activity in
Erzurum is the interdependency of crops and livestock. A crop and livestock
production calendar is depicted in chart 23291. The most important crops are
cereals, forages, and irrigated sugar beet. A biannual cereal-fallow rotation
is practiced on about 280,000 ha (roughly 75% of the cultivated area), of
which some 80,000 ha is irrigated. Wheat is the main cereal, grown on about
100,000 ha, followed by barley, rye and maize. Forage crops are second to
cereals in importance, with some 18,000 ha in alfalfa and sainfoin and
67,000 ha of natural meadows. Irrigated sugar beets, potatoes, fruits and
I/ Farm size distribution data from a MAF survey in 1978 is shown in Annex 3,
C3.



- 9 -
vegetables are important sources of cash income for a limited number of
farmers. Sugar beet is planted on about 6,000 irrigated hectares each year
while fruits, vegetables and pulses are produced on about 10,000 ha, mainly in
the northern valleys. Yields are low (Table 6.1) but could be considerably
improved with proper extension advice, the introduction of improved technical
packages and access to credit. Such will be provided in the proposed
project, with major emphasis being placed on the increased staffing,
reorientation and training of the agricultural extension service.
3.07     A particularly large potential exists to improve land use, by
expanding the production of cultivated forages for winter feeding and inte-
grating these into the cereals/fallow rotation; within this rotation, through
the intensification of cereals production on suitable lands--particularly of
wheat; and by the application of systematic management techniques to communal
grazing lands (alpine and sub-alpine pastures) to augment the summertime
animal feedbase. The technical cropping packages in the proposed project will
mainly consist of measures to utilize the cropping potentials discussed above
and rangeland management.
3.08     Livestock.  Farm families, even landless farmers, are dependent on
livestock for cash income from animal sales, milk, cheese and other animal
products, and draft power for tillage and transport. Due to overstocking,
inadequate feed supply and high incidence of disease, productivity is low
(Table 6.1).
3.09     The traditional system of livestock management is based on the
grazing of public rangelands, cereal stubble, crop aftermaths and volunteer
plants growing on fallow land during spring, summer and autumn. Animals;
managed under the traditional system (which includes nearly 100% of the herd
in Erzurum) are on a positive plane of nutrition for only four to six months
of the year when open grazing is possible on communal rangeland. During the
summer grazing period, the animals acquire heavy infestations of internal
parasites, then are moved indoors during severe winter weather and endure two
to four months of close, indoor confinement under unhygienic conditions and
meagre feeding regimes.
3.10     There is considerable evidence to indicate that the multipurpose
native breeds found in Erzurum are capable of producing at much higher levels
when properly fed and managed. However, the large potential benefits t'hat
could be derived from long-term programs for augmenting the feedbase through
better management of communal grazing lands and expanded production of
forages, better husbandry and feeding of native animals, especially during
winter, and from improving the capabilities of the animal health and breeding
services in areas where mixed farming predominates, have been largely ignored
until now. To realize the province's livestock potential, and partly because
of the uncertain prospects for milk marketing in Eastern Turkey, meat produc-
tion should be emphasized in the long term, with early offtake and sale of
young animals, thereby conserving winter feed supplies for breeding and
replacement stock. To achieve these objectives, major emphasis will be given
in the proposed project to measures to strengthen Erzurum's veterinary and
breeding services, and improve the quality of animal husbandry extension
assistance.



- 10 -
Existing Infrastructure
3.11     Irrigation.  The total irrigated land in Erzurum province is about
117,000 ha; of this amount, about 66,000 ha is served by permanent systems and
51,000 ha receives water on a temporary basis, mainly from melting snow.
TOPRAKSU has provided modern facilities for about 40,000 ha, of which some
23,000 ha are served by small diversion dams without storage on permanent
rivers, 16,700 ha are supplied with groundwater by two large DSI pumping
schemes in the Erzurum and Pasinler plains, and 370 ha are served by two small
earthfill dams with less than 0.5 mcm storage capacity. DSI has developed
four diversion schemes serving about 7,000 ha in total.  In addition farmers                 *
have constructed about 19,000 ha of permanent traditional facilities, usually
run-of-the-river diversions into unlirned canals, and about 51,000 ha of
temporary works to take advantage of seasonal flows. The availability of a
number of rivers, streams and springs in those mountainous villages of Erzurum
having comparatively good quality land, provides a basis for the construction
of small irrigation schemes on a fairly large scale.
3.12     Roads.  In addition to 175 km of the national highway running through
the province, Erzurum has about 1,440 km of provincial roads linking the 14
district centers and about 4,200 km of village roads, which provide connec-
tions to the national and provincial roads. The village roads, of which about
1,650 km have been stabilized with a gravel surface, 1,875 km have been graded
and provided with drainage, and 700 km are simple dirt tracks, are rarely
cleared of snow, and many of the dirt tracks are unsuitable for motor traffic
even during the summer. An improved rural road network and adequate upkeep
is, therefore, essential for optimal utilization of the area's physical and
human resources.
3.13     Water Supplies.  The district centers and larger towns have adequate
water supply systems, which receive chemical treatments and periodic inspec-
tions by the Department of Health. There are some 2,500 potential village
water sources in the province, but the 1,600 bacteriological analyses carried
out by the Department of Health in 1980 revealed that 960 were unsuitable,
e.g., excessive E. coli counts, while 453 settlements in the province lack
potable water.
3.14     Electricity.  All of the towns in Erzurum and about 377 villages and
settlements are served by electricity. However, because of the new national
priority for construction of generating capacity, most of the remaining
villages will not be electrified in the foreseeable future.
3.15     In the project, an infrastructure package will be provided to
selected villages to rehabilitate, extend and complete small scale irrigation
and soil conservation works, village roads and domestic water supplies.
Electrification will not be furnished, due to high cost and government
priorities for power development.
Socioeconomic Characteristics
3.16     Most farm families live clustered together in villages, usually
located on steep rocky hillsides some I-5 km from the main road. Housing is
rudimentary, consisting of sleeping quarters on a raised platform adjacent to



- 11 -
the animal stalls.  Refrigeration is virtually unknown, and the traditional
diet relies heavily on wheat, yogurt, tea and home-processed cheese. General
malnutrition is common in young children, as is vitamin C deficiency in both
children and adults. In general, low standards of hygiene, sanitation and
nutrition, and relatively unsafe drinking water all contribute to a high
incidence of infectious and parasitic diseases and higher than average infant
mortality.
3.17     Administratively, the jurisdiction of the state extends only to the
district level, and villagers appear to have a comfortable, but respectful,
relationship with the local government officials. In the village hierarchy,
the two most influential people are the muktar, an elected official from the
village who settles disputes, collects and distributes village funds, and
performs other administrative functions, and the imam, the village religious
leader. Almost every village, no matter how poor, has at least one mosque.
Islamic traditions and Moslem mores are observed more rigorously in Erzurum
than in most parts of the country.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Brief Description
4.01     The objectives of the project are to;
(a) raise agricultural production and incomes in Erzurum Province;
(b) expand rural einnloyment opportunities; and
(c) improve conditions of rural life.
4.02     The project's objectives would be achieved through implementation of
the following components over a four and three-quarter year period:
(a) Agricultural Services - consisting of expansion and reorientation of
the General Directorate of Agricultural Affair's (GDAA) agricultural
extension service, with better links to research entities in Erzurum
and the plant protection, veterinary, and irrigation services;
improved plant protection services by the General Directorate cf
Plant Protection and Quarantine (GDPPQ); and the equipping of GDAA's
regional agricultural research station for the production of disease
free seed potato cultivars;
(b)  Animal Health and Breeding Services - consisting of expansion and
reorientation of the General Directorate of Veterinary Service''s
(GDVS) animal health services; and expansion of the General
Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding's (GDANB) Al services
for cattle and sheep on a pilot demonstration basis;



- 12 -
(c)  Investment and Productiort Credits - through TCZB for purchase of
appropriate agricultural machinery, implements, inputs, barn and feed
storage renovation and feeds, and investment credits for beekeeping,
honey packaging units and milk collection centers;
(d) Rural Infrastructure - consisting of improvement by TOPRAKSU and
expansion of small-scale irrigation works (10,000 ha), soil conser-
vation works (1,300 ha), thet upgrading and some new construction of
rural roads serving 194 villages by YSE; and provision of protected
drinking water systems for 142 villages, also by YSE;
(e) Project Management - consisting of establishment and staffing of a
project office within the of'fice of the provincial governor,
consulting services, and surveys and studies for monitoring and
evaluation; and
(f) Training - consisting of in--service and overseas staff training, and
beneficiary and O&M training.
4.03     The large majority of the project's direct beneficiaries are expected
to be below the poverty level (small farmers, agricultural laborers and
beekeepers). The project area is Erzurum Province, consisting of a core group
of about 400 villages to be grouped in 34 clusters of contiguous settlements
which will receive intensive technical services, infrastructure, investment
and production credit in the project, and the remaining 670 villages in the
province which would receive less intensive technical and some production
credit services.l/
B.  DetaiLed Description
Agricultural Services
(i) Agricultural Extension Service
4.04     Farm Level Extension.  In order to achieve the objective of increased
production and farm incomes for the predominantly small, mixed crop and
livestock farmers in Erzurum, the project will implement an intensive
agricultural extension and field demonstration program to introduce improved
technology at the farm level. Technical investigations will be commissioned,
and stronger links established with research entities and with other
complementary Government services in the project area, including the plant
protection, animal health and breedinig, and irrigation services. To
accomplish these objectives, GDAA's provincial extension service, known as
1/ The core group consists of those villages identified by the national
Structure of Settlement Patterns Survey (para. 2.02) as being in the
bottom 20% of the income strata, nationally, but having good agricultural
development potential. The remaining villages in Erzurum, of which there
are about 670, either are poor buat lack potential due to their remote
location and marginal resource base, or are located in the more favorably
endowed central valley and already enjoy comparatively high income levels.



- 13 -
Teknik Ziraat (TZ), would be retrained and considerably expanded, its work
programming decentralized and its field agents posted to the village level. A
major reorientation of approach will be undertaken, which essentially involves
the creation of a polyvalent service at the point of contact with farmers in
place of the existing single disciplinary approach, and adoption of a T&V
system suitably modified to local conditions. The institutional pattern to be
adopted in Erzurum province could eventually be introduced to other provinces.
4.05     The main target crops are cereals and forages under rainfed and
irrigated cultivation. Seed multiplication of the winter hardy Lancer wheat
variety, which is expected to be an important element in the cereals/forage
cropping package, will be increased by state farms to meet the project's
requirements. Secondary commodities include potatoes, pulses, some horti-
culture, animal products, and--outside of the project, under the technical
supervision of the Turkish Sugar Factories' (SEKER) Erzurum plant--sugar beet
on new lands to be irrigated in the project. subjects to be covered include
field crop and forage production in rainfed and irrigated areas, utilization
of fallow and meadows, irrigation practices, use of appropriately sized
agricultural machinery, deciduous fruits and hotbeds, management of summer
rangelands, animal care and feeding, apiculture, and home economics. The
village level extension program will be supplemented by high altitude pasture
demonstrations of three years duration, which TZ will carry out on a pilot
scale to introduce range improvement and management practices on about 25 ha
of communal grazing land in each of 50 villages where rudimentary systems of
deferred or rotative grazing are practiced. Investment and production credit
will be provided to enable farmers to utilize the packages and techniques
demonstrated. By the end of the tenth year, it is expected that about 28,000
of Erzurum's 80,000 farmers would benefit directly from the program, including
60% of the 30,000 farmers who reside in the 400 core group villages and about
20% of the 50,000 farmers who reside in other villages.
4.06     At the institutional level, a cadre of Village Extension Agents
(VEAs) will be posted to each village cluster, and provided with offices,
housing and vehicles. The VEAs would be supervised by senior technicians and
supported by subject matter specialists (SMS) in each major discipline.
Professional staff requirements will entail an approximate 75% increase in the
numbers of existing personnel during the project implementation period. Field
demonstrations will be carried out on the lands of leading farmers who will
serve as the point of contact. This work will be supplemented by field days,
farmers meetings, some formal beneficiary training and use of mass media.
4.07     Specialized agencies within KMF, such as GDPPQ, GDVS and GDANB will
provide staff to serve as SMS in their areas of specialty. TOPRAKSU will
train TZ's SMS in on-farm water management techniques and assign technical
supervisisory staff to assist with the establishment of work programs for
field demonstrations in irrigated areas. Staff from SEKER's Erzurum factory
will assist TZ with its program in sugar beet areas.
4.08     Technical Investigations and Research.  The extension service would
conduct simple field tests and small scale adaptation trials for cereals,
forages and other crops under the different climatic conditions of the
province, in consultation with GDAA's Regional Agricultural Research Institute



- 14 -
at Erzurum and with staff of the Faculty of Agriculture in Ataturk University.
Also in collaboration with Ataturk University and with GDAA's Forage and
Pasture Research Institute, investigations will be carried out on range
improvement and management, in particular for the high altitude rangeland. One
of the SMS will be appointed as research liaison officer with the agricultural
research station to coordinate the flow of research information to the
extension staff, ensure inclusion of new research findings in extension work
programs, submit problems requiring research to the Director of the Research
Station, and establish a program for selected field experiments or testing in
special ecological areas of the province.
4.09     Staffing and Other Requiremenlts.  Details of the scope and phasing of
the extension program, the build-up and training of GDAA's provincial staff,
the program of technical investigations and the strengthening of links with
research entities are set forth in Annex 3, C4. To carry out the extension
services program, GDAA agreed to assign additional staff to its service in
Erzurum according to a staffing plan agreed during negotiations. The project
also will provide extension management consultant services to assist in the
organization of the program and a range management specialist (para. 4.36),
staff housing and office facilities, vehicles, agricultural demonstration and
plant protection machinery and implements, equipment for an information unit,
seeds, fertilizers, chemicals, other demonstration materials, and in-service
and 48 man-months of overseas training (discussed in para. 4.38) as well as
overseas degree studies in the field of range management.
(ii) Plant Protection Service
4.10     In addition to strengthening its links to the extension service,
GDPPQ's provincial plant protection service would be reinforced to improve its
capacity to control major outbreaks of plant disease. The project would
provide additional professional and support staff, vehicles, laboratory and
field supplies, equipment, vehicles and vehicle operation and maintenance
requirements. In addition, research staff would be assigned to work for the
Regional Plant Protection Research In,stitute in neighboring Erzincan to develop
epidemic control packages suitable to the project area.
(iii) Potato Seed Multiplication
4.11     The GDAA's Regional Agricultural Research Institute in Erzurum would
produce original seed under supervision of its potato research unit in Izmir.
The subsequent production of foundation seed would be based upon contracts made
by the GDAA with farmers in Erzurum and elsewhere in Turkey, which would be
produced under the close supervision of GDAA's specially trained seed potato
field teams, as has been done successfully in Western Turkey. At full
development, about 2,000 tons of ifoundation seed would be produced, to be sold
to farmers in Erzurum and in otheir parts of Turkey for multiplication and
certification.  Erzurum was chosen as the site for this program because of the
low hazard of virus diseases and ithe potential benefits from introducing
improved potatoes to the crop rotation on irrigated lands. The project would
provide professional, technical and support staff, equipment, vehicles, storage
facilities and overseas degree training in potato seed management.



- 15 -
Animal Health and Breeding Services
4.12     Scope.  The project's animal health and breeding services will be
complementary to the crop, pasture, and animal feeding and management improve-
ment activities described above. The main target commodity is meat. Due to
the need for considerable strengthening of GDVS and GDANB's services in the
province, the component contains training, livestock management investigations
and pilot demonstration elements, and will be confined to the 400 villages
slated to receive intensive extension assistance.
4.13     Animal Health.  under the project, an animal disease control program
will be implemented in these villages with priority given to the prophylactic
use of vaccines. In 100 of the villages a pilot program of internal and
external parasite control would be carried out, to be closely monitored by
appropriate laboratory procedures and field investigations. To accomplish
this, the work programming of the animal health services will be reoriented
away from nearly singular emphasis on control of endemic outbreaks to the
systematic application of preventative disease measures to be supplemented by
training and better coordination with the extension services.
4.14     Two principal livestock improvement packages will be made available
for traditional cattle and sheep husbandry. The first is a package of disease
prevention measures, including a campaign of regular vaccination to be
administered by GDVS. The second, more intensive package, will control
parasitism as well as disease and provide improved management and feeding.
The utilization will be supplemented by increased availability of feeds due to
forage development (and in some areas, improved pasture management), the
provision of credit for feedstuffs purchases, and renovation of on-farm
livestock facilities. The application of either package will be focused at
the village level, to ensure that a progressively increasing number of animals
utilizing communal grazing lands have been vaccinated, and rid of parasites
(second package). The animal health program will be supported by the posting
of new veterinary field teams in nine districts by GDVS.
4.15     AI Breeding Services and Technical Investigations.  In selected
villages, ATI services for cattle and sheep will be introduced on a pilot
demonstration basis in conjunction with intensified animal health care. The
Cattle AI center near Erzurum will be renovated, the efficiency of existing
field teams for cattle and sheep insemination will be improved, 3 new cattle
Al teams will be formed, equipped and housed, and 13 new sheep AI schemes
would be introduced. Genetic improvement would consist of topcrossing through
AI the local cattle breeds, and local Mor-karaman sheep with the Turkish
Merino. By the end of the implementation period, approximately 2,000 cows
would be successfully inseminated in 45 villages each year and 13,000 ewes in
13 villages. Animal production investigations would be made to refine animal
feeding regimes and prophylactic animal health packages. Laboratory investi-
gations will be required. Field investigations would be carried out on
appropriate techniques to improve village livestock production with emphasis
on the indigenous breeds.
4.16     Staffing and Other Requirements.  During negotiations, agreement was
reached concerning the scope and details of the component and the posting of



- 16 -
additional staff to GDVS/GDANB's provincial servicel/ in Erzurum. The project
also would provide vehicles, equipmernt, staff housing and offices, for the
animal health service, and these a!s well as livestock and feedstuffs for the
AI services and the research program, drugs and vaccines, laboratory
equipment, and supplies for the field trials.  To provide the necessary
diagnostic services, GDVS' Regional Veterinary Laboratory at Erzurum will be
strengthened through the provision of equipment, material and additional
staff. Three technical specialists in the fields of veterinary science
investigations, animal disease epidemiology and AI organization and management
would be internationally recruited for a total of 16 man-months to assist,
respectively, the veterinary laboratory, the animal health field services and
organization of AI field services (para. 4.36).
Investment & Production Credit
(i) Agricultural Credit
4.17     Supervised investment and production credit will be extended by TCZB,
through its regional office and 14 branches in Erzurum, to about 15,000
private farmers in Erzurum to enable them to utilize the new technical
packages offered by the extension and livestock services. Medium-term credit
will be utilized for the procurement of machinery and implements needed for
land preparation, crop culture, harvest and threshing operations under the
project, including rototillers and tractors, seed drills, potato planters,
backpack sprayers, small mowers, and hay rakes, small threshers, sets of
tractor implements, and small irrigation pumps. Investment credit will also
be provided for renovations to animal buildings and feed stores. Incremental
production credit will be provided in the project for procurement of modern
inputs, including certified seeds and improved cultivars, chemical fertilizers
and plant protection chemicals. Short-term credit also will be provided for
procurement of feedstuffs for animals to prevent debilitating weight losses
during winter and reduce the pressure of livestock on summer grasslands.
Details are shown in Annex 3, C7. Agricultural credit will be made available
to farmers in project villages after the project's extension services have
been phased into a village. The provision of investment credits will be
limited to the 400 villages which will receive intensive technical services in
the project. However, production credit will be made available province-wide.
(ii) Credits for Apiculture
4c18     Erzurum Province has a good potential for apiculture because of its
extensive pastures and rich wild flora. However, beekeeping by villagers is
mostly limited to a small number of traditional hives, of very low produc-
tivity. Investment credits for beekeeping will be made through TCZB to 1,000
rural households in the project area to establish beekeeping, and to 500
existing beekeepers to improve and expand their operation under supervision by
apiculture experts in the provincial extension service.
4.19     To enable the small beekeepers to receive higher prices, the project
will provide medium-term credits through TCZB for the establishment of 3 honey
packaging and marketing units, each having a bottling capacity of 500 kg/day
and expected annual throughput of 100 tons.  To set up and be operated by
beekeepers organized in cooperatives or corporations, these units would be
L,/ Both services operate under a consolidated budget at the province level,
and report to GDVS' provincial veterinarian.



- 17 -
phased-in during the third, fourth and fifth year of the project to enable
small beekeepers to first raise the necessary equity for participation in a
cooperative or corporation, then to formally associate. The details and
phasing of these credits are set-forth in Annex 3, C7.
(iii) Milk Collecting Centers
4.20     Investment credits would be extended by TCZB to refurbish 3 existing
milk collection centers (MCC) now owned by TSEK and establish 7 new ones in
order to supplement existing marketing arrangements in 10 village clusters on
a pilot basis.  Farmer cooperatives, partnerships, corporations or the TSEK
itself will serve as the organizational understructure.  After the livestock
iand pasture improvement programs have become effective, increased milk supply
in other clusters is expected to justify extension of the pilot operation.,
The new MCCs would be built to specifications based on TSEK's earlier
construction, with daily throughput of 2 tons. They will all be located
within 50 to 60 km from the TSEK owned dairy plant and will avail themselves
of the processing facilities or sell the milk outright to TSEK. Approval of
the credit would be phased at the rate of two per year during the project
implementation period.
4.21     The Government agreed during loan negotiations that all sub-borrower
loan repayments under the project, to the extent that such repayment is not
required for amortization of the subsidiary loan (para. 4.43), will be placed
in a revolving fund by TCZB in order to sustain its agricultural credit
lending to Erzurum Province. The fund will be maintained until such time as
TCZB and the Bank shall mutually agree that it is no longer required.
Rural Infrastructure
4.22     The project would provide rural infrastructure to core group villages
consisting of small-scale irrigation and soil conservation works, rural roads,
village water supplies, and village training for O&M (except for roads). The
irrigation and soil conservation aspects of the project would be implemenkted
by TOPRAKSU, while YSE would implement the rural roads and village water
supply aspects.
(i) Small-Scale Irrigation and Soil Conservation
4.23     Scope.  The plan provides for development of 56 separate small
irrigation sub-projects varying in size from 13 ha to 500 ha and serving a
total of about 10,000 ha net by TOPRAKSU's Regional Directorate. The
irrigation water for one sub-project will be supplied from groundwater and 55
sub-projects will be supplied by simple diversions. Canals will be concrete
lined and vary in size from 12 I/sec to 360 1/sec. Structures for the simall
canal systems include 55 small diversion weirs, two pump lifts, and the
necessary cross-drainage structures, control gates and farm turnouts. No
storage is required.
4.24     The soil conservation program consists of 8 sub-projects for land
terracing and channel control works, including terracing of about 500 ha and
stream channel protection for about 800 ha. The channel control sub-projects
range in size from 35 ha to 175 ha and consist of protective levies and



-, 18 -
velocity erosion and flood control structures.  The project also provides for
construction machinery and equipment, additional staff and training, the
establishment of an office, laboratory, and a research center for TOPRAKSU
operations in Erzurum. Project equipment would be procured by TOPRAKSU for
delivery in 1982. Existing TOPRAKSLI equipment will be used on project works
until the new equipment is delivered.
4.25     Construction Capability and Method.  TOPRAKSU is currently obligated
to construct irrigation facilities on 4,800 ha of land in the Erzurum region
during the next four years (3,300 ha in a DSI groundwater project and 1,500 ha
in small watershed projects) at the rate of about 1,200 ha per year.  The                    9
regional capability with additional personnel and equipment provided by the
proposed project, will be expanded to about 3,200 ha per year. Therefore,
about 2,000 ha of irrigated land can be properly developed per year under the
project, which will extend the implementation period (10,000 ha) over five
construction seasons. The annual program for soil conservation work is about
260 ha. Rights-of-way for the canals and structures are contributed by the
landowners in exchange for the benefits they expect to derive. TOPRAKSU would
utilize a modified force account procedure (described in para. 5.11) for its
works in the project. Agreement was reached during negotiations regarding the
scope, content and programming of TOPPAKSU works in the project as described
above and detailed in Annex 3, C6, staffing requirements, and the details of
the first year work plan.
4.26     Operation and Maintenance.  After construction, and after training is
received from TOPRAKSU (para. 5.13), routine O&M of the irrigation and soil
conservation facilities would be performed by the village water users either
through a cooperative or by the villagers organized under the village muktar.
This work would be overseen by irrigation foremen, to be trained by TOPRAKSU,
following its standard procedures for O&M of small scale works. Major
repairs, such as canal washouts, structure failure, etc., would be done by
TOPRAKSU.
(ii) Rural Roads
4.27     Scope and Design Standards,.  The program for improving the village
road system in Erzurum by YSE would benefit about 194 villages. The project
provides for the construction of 94 km of new roads, adding cross drainage
structures to 17 km of completed roads, installing cross drainage structures
and gravel surface on 500 km of roads, and adding gravel surfacing only to an
additional 210 km of completed roads. It also provides for the supply of
equipment and machinery for the adequate maintenance of 1,459 km of project-
developed roads and existing village roads in the core group villages. Three
new sub-district maintenance headquarters buildings will be constructed at
Ispir, Oltu and Hinis. The roads would be constructed to YSE's standard II-A
(serving more than one village) or II-B (serving one village only) design
specifications, with the platform width varying from 8 m (II-A) to 5 m
(II-B). The roads will be gravel surfaced and cross-drainage structures will
be provided as determined by terrain and flood runoff studies. On grades, or
in mountainous terrain, culverts would 'be added at least every 300 meters of
road length. Proposed road alignments have been evaluated by YSE and adequate
designs and cost estimates prepared.



- 19 -
4.28     Construction and Maintenance.  The 4-year construction program for
rural roads provides for constructing an average of 23 km of new road per
year, installing cross drainage structures for about 152 km of road per year,
and gravel surfacing 200 km per year. Most of the water crossings (73) would
be contracted with YSE supplying the materials. Road construction, culverts,
and gravel surfacing would normally be done by YSE because of the heavy
equipment required and the lack of contractor-capability. However, much of
the labor for this work would be contracted.  Equipment for construction 'will
be procured by YSE for delivery early in 1982 so it will be available for
accomplishment of the program as scheduled. The project will also supply YSE
with equipment to perform maintenance on roads for all of the 400 core group
villages, and snow removal and rescue equipment.
(iii) Village Water Supply
4.29     Scope and Designs.  The project provides for development of 142
village drinking water systems over a 4-year period by YSE's Regional Office
in Erzurum, and equipment required for construction. Of these, 82 villages
presently have no water supply, and 60 have inadequate facilities from
unreliable sources. The new project systems would include 99 gravity flow
systems from springs or streams, 7 pump lifts from surface springs, and 36
groundwater pumping units. Of the 43 villages to be serviced by pumping
facilities, 14 will need to be supplied by diesel pumps. In villages with a
population of less than 750, only multiple central water outlets would be
provided. Over 750 population, the villagers have the option of
house-to-house distribution facilities provided the residents are willing to
bear the cost. It is estimated that about 30% of the villages would include
distributicz  f^_-lities.  YSE's general standard designs would be used for the
pipelines, an equalizing and a small head reservoir as required and pumping
facilities as required. There would be an average of 4 km of pipeline for
each system. All water sources have been sampled and tested and only those
passing acceptable standards were selected for development.
4.30     Construction and O&M.  Project equipment needed for construction will
be procured early in the first year; existing YSE equipment would be used on
the project facilities until the new equipment is delivered. YSE will
contract with villagers for installation of the pipelines, and construction of
the pump stations, equalizing reservoirs and small structures. YSE would
supply the materials, excavate and backfill the trenches with their heavy
equipment, drill and equip the groundwater wells, and install the pumping
units. All YSE developed village domestic water systems in the 400 core
villages (250 existing and the 142 new systems to be constructed in the
project) will be included in an O&M program for the project.  Following
completion of the systems and villager training, trained YSE technicians will
monitor and evaluate the villagers O&M practices. YSE regional staff would
assist the villagers with major repairs and periodic replacement of pumping
equipment. YSE would also assume the responsibility from the provincial
health services for testing water quality samples for chemical and bacterio-
logical content, and treatment of all 392 systems during and after project
development. Assurances to this effect were provided during negotiations.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to the proposed scope and content
of the rural roads and village water supply program, as described above and
detailed in Annex 3, C6, staffing requirements, and the first year work plans
for each. Details of implementation are spelled out in paras. 5.11, 5.12.



- 20 -
(iv) Status of Designs and Engineering
4.31     Irrigation and Soil Conservation.  TOPRAKSU has prepared a master
plan for small-scale irrigation development and soil conservation schemes in
the Erzurum province. Of the 56 irrigation schemes to be constructed under
the project, detailed designs have been prepared for 16 of these (covering
about 2,075 ha net) which will be constructed under the first-year program.
Final designs and estimates also have been completed for about 272 ha of soil
conservation work to be accomplished during the first year. On the remaining
40 irrigation schemes (8,000 ha net), and 1,028 ha of soil conservation work,
the surveys, plan formulation, preliminary designs and cost estimates have
been completed, and will be finalized during the first and second years of
project development. TOPRAKSU's project selection criteria, which includes an
economic analysis, and the final hydrological studies, designs and cost
estimates for the first-year program were reviewed and found to be well
prepared and adequate for construction (see Annex 3, C6 for details). The
preliminary estimates for the remaining work were sufficiently advanced to
demonstrate justification for inclus:ion in the project plan. Final designs
and estimates for the remaining increments will be made available to the Bank
for its review.
4.32     Rural Roads and Village Water Supplies.  Surveys, water quality
analyses, and preliminary plans have been completed for the rural roads and
village water supply systems included in the project plan.  For project roads,
detailed designs and estimates hare been prepared for the road base sections,
including cross-drainage structures, and for the location, selection and
designs for cross-drainage structures for about 150 km of roadway. These
estimates have been prepared in sufficient detail for initiation of
construction. Standard specifications are utilized for road grading and
surfacing, which were reviewed and found to be generally satisfactory. The
remaining final designs would be completed during the first year of project
implementation. An assurance was provided that YSE would initiate a system of
traffic counts in the core group villages to assist it with the refinement of
design standards for roads construction in Erzurum (para. 5.29).
4.33     Detailed designs and estimates have been finalized for 62 of the
water supply systems and the remaining 80 would be completed during the first
and second years of the project development period. Final designs and
estimates for the remaining increments of the village water supply systems
will be made available to the Bank for review.  With the exception of
provision of fire protection for villages of 750 population or more, which
could result in substantial overcapacity, YSE's design standards for drinking
water schemes were.discussed and found to be generally satisfactory (Annex 3,
C6). Provision for fire protection would be eliminated from systems to be
constructed in the project.
4.34     Both TOPRAKSU and YSE have had considerable experience and technical
assistance in design and construction of the type of facilities included in
the project and have demonstrated a continued improvement in construction
performance, which is now quite satisfactory. Therefore, specialist expertise
has not been provided in the project for assistance with the construction of
rural infrastructure.



- 21 -
Project Management
(i) Project Office
4.35     The project provides for the establishment of a project office and
appointment of a project manager to coordinate the work of the various
agencies involved in the project, maintain consolidated accounts, and,
assisted by the provincial arms of the participating line and technical
agencies, to prepare annual budgets and work programs, and monitor project
related expenditures under approved budgets. The project office would be
provided with four sedans for use by its staff and the consultants
(para. 4.36) and office equipment.  The assignment by SPO of a suitable
project manager and staff according to an agreed staffing schedule will be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
(ii) Consultants
4.36     The project will provide 87 man-months of internationally recruited
consulting services to assist with project implementation. The required
expertise includes project organization and management (12 man-months),
general extension management (18 man-months), rangeland management (17
man-months), veterinary science investigations (6 man-months), animal disease
epidemiology (4 man-months), AI organization and management (6 man-montlas),
and promotion and marketing (24 man-months), to be provided and phased
according to Annex 3, C8.   Administratively, the project orgnization and
management and the promotion and marketing consultants would be recruited by
SPO and assigned to the project office. The extension, range management and
specialists in the three above-mentioned veterinary disciplines would be
recruited by MAF to work with TZ, GDVS or GDANB, as described above. With the
exception of the specialist for disease epidemiology whose services would
commence in 1983, the Government agreed that all consultants would be
recruited before September 15, 1982 according to terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank (Annex 3, Cl).
(iii) Socioeconomic Surveys
4.37     Periodic socioeconomic and farm management surveys of the project
area would be commissioned by SPO for monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
purposes. These surveys would consist of a pre-implementation survey, to be
conducted during the summer months of 1982, a mid-implementation survey about
1984, and a post-implementation survey about mid-1986 in time to assist with
preparation of a project completion report. These surveys, to be based on
sample households and an appropriate stratification scheme, would be
supplemented by in-depth village studies in selected village clusters.
Training
4.38     The training elements of the project are extensive, comprehensive,
and essential for smooth implementation. Considerable staff training is
provided to reorient and upgrade the extension service (including about 13,000
staff-days of in-service and 48 man-months of overseas training) and the
animal health and breeding services (about 2,700 staff days in-service and 46
man-months overseas). Overseas and in-service training is also provided for
TOPRAKSU's technicians and YSE's O&M technicians. In addition, degree studies



- 22 -
will be provided for GDAL's staff in the fields of rangeland and potato seed
management. Formal train_ng for project beneficiaries will include leading
farmers, beekeepers and IOPRAKSU's O&M foremen. The timely scheduling of
training by the respective services is required, which must be coordinated
amongst the services, e.g., TOPRAKSU will provide training in water management
for GDAA's SMS and VEAs; specialists from GDPPQ, GDVS and GDANB will serve as
SMS for the extension service on matters of plant protection and livestock
management, and some training of project staff and beneficiaries will be
accomplished with the assistance of Ataturk University. The training elements
of the project are set forth in tabular form and are further described in
Annex 3, C8.
4.39     The training elements of the project would be carried out according
to a training plan agreed to during negotiations. To provide overall
coordination, a full-time training coordinator will be assigned to the project
office. He will work with the project manager and the consultant for project
organization and management to ensure that the overseas training and degree
study programs of the involved agencies are programmed and implemented
according to project requirements, including timely selection of rosters,
travel schedules and institutions; provide advice and assistance on
preparation of syllabi and scheduling of local and in-service training;
facilitate finalization of arrangements for inter-agency training for the
extension services; and closely monitor the utilization of project funds which
have been allocated for training.
Implementation and Phasing
4.40     The project would be implemented over a four and a three-quarter year
period, from April 1, 1982 to December 31, 1986, according to the implementa-
tion schedule shown in Chart 23289.  Construction of the rural roads and
village water supply facilities would be completed during 1985 while the
irrigation and soil conservation works program would be completed in 1986.
Project implementation would be accomplished in accordance with detailed
annual plans to be prepared by the project office. All villages will be
phased into the project during the first four years of the implementation
period in a way which will maximize the economic impact of the project.
Agricultural and livestock services would be initiated in these villages as
soon as training for first year operations (para. 5.09) has been completed.
As much as possible, physical infrastructure work will be carried out prior to
or simultaneously with agricultural support and demonstration activities in a
given village cluster. The phasing will begin, therefore, with those clusters
already having adequate infrastructure (namely Dumlu, Tasagil, Yigittasi and
Tortum which contain a total of 45 villages), or for which requisite survey
and design work is in an advanced stage of preparation. All major construc-
tion work in the project will begin not later than the fourth year of the
project, to permit completion of all works by the end of the implementation
period. The agricultural extension services ultimately will be extended to
cover the entire province. Implementation of the component for control of
crop pests would be province-wide from the start. The expected pattern of
phasing is detailed in Annex 3, Cll. Agreement was reached during negotia-
tions as to the implementation schedule, phasing criteria, and the content of
the 1982 work program. Assurances were given that annual work programs for
1983-1986 would be prepared and submitted to the Bank for its review before
each corresponding fiscal year.



- 23 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.41      The total project cost is estimated to be $137.0 million equivalent
including some $4.8 million in taxes, of which some US$60.0 million (about 44%) is
foreign exchange. The project cost represents the estimated investment cost during
the four and three-quarter year project implementation period in May/June 1981
terms (US$1 = TL 100.0) with physical contingencies and price escalation added.
The estimated foreign expenditure will largely be for heavy equipment, vehicles and
other equipment, farm machinery and chemicals, vaccines and drugs, technical
specialists and overseas training. Imputed foreign exchange includes a portion of
civil works costs, and materials and supplies required for the MCC and beekeeping
operations. Construction costs for infrastructure are based on quantity and unit
price estimates prepared by TOPRAKSU and YSE and are in line with recent unit costs
and contract prices for similar work in Turkey, projected to mid-1982. Physical
contingencies of 15% have been added to civil works costs for irrigation and soil
conservation works, and 10% for rural roads and water supplies. Price increases of
US$26.6 million were allowed over the four and three-quarter year implementation
period. They provide for price contingencies between May/June 1981 and the end of
the project implementation period, applied to both local and foreign costs in US$
terms at the following annual rates: 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85
and 6% for 1986. Presenting cost estimates and measuring both foreign and local
price contingencies in US$ equivalents implies a certain relation between domestic
and foreign prices. Specifically, it has been assumed in line with the
Government's policy that the lira exchange rate would change so as to offset the
inflation differential between Turkey and its major trading partners. The lira has
been devalued roughly in accordance with this pattern since 1977 and is now
adjusted on a sliding basis. About 87 man-months of internationally recruited
consulting services will be required for the project, costing US$0.64 million in
total. Average direct costs have been estimated at US$6,000 equivalent per
man-month as of May/June 1981. Travel and per diem expenses average US$1,500 per
month. Project costs during the expected disbursement period of the proposed loan
are summarized below by functional category in Table 4.1, and by types of
expenditure in Annex 1; more detailed breakdowns for the entire project are
contained in Annexes 2 and 3, C9.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATE /
(TL Million)                    (US$'000)
Local   Foreign  Total         Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
Agriculture Services       1730.1   385.4   2115.5   17301.2   3854.5   21155.7    18.2
Animal Health &
Breeding Services          257.7   186.6    444.3    2577.5   1865.9    4443.4    42.0
Investment & Produc-
tion Credit                927.4  1655.7   2583.1    9274.0  16557.3   25831,2    64.1
Rural Infrastructure       2985.3  2455.9   5441.2   29852.9  24558.8   54411.7    45.1
Project Management /2         51.1    59.0    110.1        511.0    590.0    1101,0    53.6
Training                      20.0    33.9      53.9       200.2    338.6       538..8    62.8
Total Base Line Costs    5971.7  4776.5  10748.2   59716.8  47765.1  107481.,8    44.4
Physical Contingencies    210.8    90.2    301.0    2107.5    902.3    3009.9    30.0
Price Contingencies        1522.2  1133.2   2655.4   15221.6  11332.6   26554.2    43.3
Total Project Costs        7704.6  6000.0  13704.6   77045.9  60000.0  137045.9    43.9
/1 Table contains rounding errors.
/2 includes consultants, project office, socio-economic surveys and studies.



- 24 -
D. Financing
4.42     The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million equivalent will finance 66.7% of
the foreign exchange costs of the project (29.2% of total costs). A loan from IFAD
of $20 million equivalent, to be administered by the Bank on the basis of joint
financing for all components, will finance the remainder of the foreign exchange
requirement, or 33.3% of foreign costs (14.6% of total costs). It will be a
condition of loan effectiveness that all conditions precedent to the IFAD agreement
becoming effective have been met (other than the effectiveness of the Bank loan).
The Government will contribute US$64.5 million, or 47.2% of the total, while TCZB
will finance some US$7.4 million, or 5.4% of the total. Subborrowers would
contribute the remaining US$4.9 million, which amounts to 3.6% of total costs.
Financing of the investment and technical supporting costs will be shared as shown
in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN /1
(US$ million)
Sub-
IBRD        IFAD        Gov't         TCZB       Borrowers      Total
_mt.    %   Amt.    %   Amt.    %    Amt.   %    Amt.   %    Amt.   %
Agric. Services      3.3  12.0   1.7   7.0  21.7  81.0    -        -     -      -    26.7  100
Animal Health
& Breeding          1.6  28.0   0.8  14.0   3.3  58.0    -        -     -     -      5.7  100
Investment & Pro-
duction Credit    14.8  43.0   7.4  21.0    -        -    7.4  21.0   4.9  15.0   34.5  100
Rural
Infrastructure    19.6  28.0   9.8  14.0  38.7  58.0    -         -     -     -    68.1  100
Project
Management/2        0.4  36.0   0.2  18.0   0.7  46.0    -        -     -     -      1.3  100
Training             0.3  41.0   0.1  21.0   0.3  38.0    -        -     _      _     0.7  100
Total           40.0  29.2  20.0  14.6  64.7  47.2   7.4   5.4   4.9   3.6  137.0  100
/1  Price increases added to each component; table contains rounding errors.
/2 Includes consultants, project office, socioeconomic surveys and studies.
4.43     The Bank loan of US$40.0 million equivalent will be made to the Government
of Turkey which will assume the foreign exchange risk. The loan will be for 17
years including a 4-year grace period at the prevailing rate of interest. It is
expected that the IFAD loan of US$20 million equivalent will be made to the
Government of Turkey on its standard terms and conditions for ordinary loans.
Government will on-lend to TCZB in local currency the equivalent of US$22.2 million
(including US$14.8 million from the Bank loan) which, together with a further
US$7.4 million from TCZB's own resources, will comprise the US$29.6 million for
on-farm lending and sub-loans for apiculture and milk collection facilities. The
utilization of these funds by TCZB will be governed by a Project Agreement between
the TCZB and the Bank. The Government will lend to TCZB at a rate which will leave
it with a spread of at least 3.5% on Bank and IFAD funds on-lent by TCZB to



- 25 -
subborrowers in the project. The project cash flows indicate that a repayment
period to Government by TCZB of 17 years including a grace period of four
years is appropriate. These terms were agreed upon during negotiations. A
condition of effectiveness will be the signature of a subsidiary loan
agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between the Government and TCZB.
Government also will make available sufficient local resources for the project
estimated to be the equivalent of US$21.2 million for GDAA for agricultural
services, investigations and training, and the seed potato subproject, US$0.7
million to GDPPQ for the plant protection program and training, US$2.7 million
to GDVS for animal health services and training, US$0.5 million to GDANB for
the AI program, US$14.4 million to TOPRAKSU for irrigation construction and
training, US$24.4 million to YSE for roads construction, village water supply
works and training, and US$0.6 million to the SPO for the Government's
financial participation in project management and local support for
consultants. The recurrent costs which the Government will continue to bear
following project implementation will initially amount to US$3.9 million
equivalent per year which will decline to US$1.5 million by year 10 due to a
gradual phasing down of the extension services, and would be offset by tax
revenues, including revenue from marketed produce as well as additional income
and land tax revenues.
4.44     To guarantee the reliable operation of the extension and livestock
services in the project and timely inception of project works, the budget
required by the project must be provided on time and in the amount required to
prevent implementation delays. In view of the importance of timely staff
recruitment for service in Erzurum, which is a hardship area, specific
assurances were received that the Borrower would facilitate access to housing
for staff until the construction of suitable accommodation under the project
has been completed, and would pay specific hardship incentives to project
staff for service in Eastern Anatolia. It was further agreed that by March
1st of each year during the four and three-quarter year implementation period
(or such other date as may be mutually agreed), Government will satisfy the
Bank that adequate annual budget has been allocated to meet the needs of the
project during the forthcoming fiscal year. This date would change to J'anuary
1st if the Government carries through with its announced intention to shift
the fiscal year to a calendar year basis in 1983. In view of their critical
importance, it was agreed that allocations for staff hardship area incerLtives
and vehicle operating expenses will be separately identified. Subsequernt to
the end of each corresponding Turkish fiscal year (the Turkish fiscal year
presently ends February 28), the Government has further agreed to furnish the
Bank with a summary of budget requested by each agency for purposes of the
project and of amounts actually allocated and spent during the recently
completed fiscal year.
E. Procurement
4.45     The Bank will jointly administer the proposed Bank and IFAD loans
according to the Bank's procurement procedures. Contracts would be awarded
through ICB according to the Bank's Guidelines For Procurement of March 1977
for the procurement of construction and maintenance machinery and equipment
for the infrastructure components, and vehicles and farm machinery for the
agricultural and livestock improvement services component. Bidding documents



- 26 -
will stipulate that suppliers will guarantee adequate servicing and the
provision of spare parts within Turkey. The estimated costs under ICB
procedures amount to US$20.4 million, or 33% of the project's estimated
foreign cost. In view of the short construction season in Erzurum and the
need to procure machinery and equipmLent to initiate project works early in the
implementation period, advanced contracting has been authorized for heavy
equipment items from November 1, 1981 and for vehicles and farm machinery from
January 1, 1982. The estimated value of such contracts is about $14.5
million, for which retroactive financing for up to $4 million has been
authorized, to cover possible down payments on equipment orders. Agricultural
inputs, animal vaccines and drugs, storage, laboratory, research and field
equipment, and chemicals, materials and supplies needed for the various
project components as detailed in Annex 3, C10, vehicles for the project
office, and pumps and related electrical and mechanical equipment for village
water systems, to be procured in small lots over a four-year period and
estimated to cost US$5.3 million, will be procured under limited international
tendering procedures on the basis of not less than three quotations from
suppliers in eligible countries. Details of procurement will be advertised in
the local press and circulated to accredited representatives of potential
suppliers eligible under the Bank's Guidelines For Procurement. 1/
4.46     Infrastructure works in the project, excluding machinery and
equipment depreciation, amount to US$36.5 million. Government forces would
perform major works and provide construction materials in short supply (such
as cement and steel) under government priority procurement arrangements (para.
5.11), and small contractors would handle lesser works. Reimbursement for
civil works on force account would be for a portion of construction materials,
amounting to US$11.1 m'llion, to be procured in accordance with Government's
standard procedures.
4.47     Purchase of ancillary equipment and farm machinery under sub-loans,
small tools and farm inputs, as listed in Annex 3, C10, animal feeds and barn
renovation materials, beekeeping materials and equipment, honey straining and
packaging equipment and materials, and equipment and supplies for MCCs, will
be through normal commercial channels as is usual in credit projects.
Fertilizers and some chemicals, farm machinery and implements are available
through the TZDK while pesticides, beekeeping materials and supplies are
freely available from the private sector.
4.48     Consultants will be employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
On The Use Of Consultants (August 1981).
1/ The goods to be procured will be grouped to the extent practicable to
increase competition in bidding. About 460 contracts and bidding packages
are expected to make up the estimated US$25.3 million to be procured under
ICB and limited international tendering procedures. With a threshold of
US$100,000 for prior Bank review of procurement documentation, about 7% of
the bidding packages, numbering 30 to 35 and amounting to about US$20.7
million (Annex 3, C10), would cover about 80% of the value contracted.
The balance is expected to involve 420 small periodic transactions, a
sample of which will be reviewed by supervision missions for the project.



- 27 -
F. Disbursements
4.49     The Bank loan of US$40.0 million equivalent and IFAD loan of US$20.0
million equivalent will be disbursed over four and three-quarter calendar
years on the basis of US$2 from the Bank loan per US$1 from IFAD as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign and 100% of local expenditures ex-factory on
construction and maintenance equipment for TOPRAKSU and YSE, and
vehicles and farm machinery for GDAA, GDPPQ, GDVS and GDANB; to be
procured under ICB procedures;
(b) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for all items to be
procured under limited international tendering procedures;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for overseas training;
(d) 90% of total expenditures on consultant services;
(e) 25% of amounts expended on force account for construction of civil
works by TOPRAKSU and YSE;
(f) 90% of the total amounts disbursed by TCZB for procurement of farm
machinery, equipment, and barn renovation under farm investment plans;
(g) 65% of amounts disbursed by TCZB for incremental production credit
for seeds, fertilizers and farm chemicals and animal feeds; and
(h) 30% of amounts disbursed by TCZB for MCCs and the establishment of
beekeeping and honey packaging units.
4.50     Disbursements will be made against normal documentation except for
sub-lending to farmers by TCZB, and reimbursements to TOPRAKSU and YSE on
force account, which will be made against statements of expenditure.
Documents for disbursement against statements of expenditure will be audited
(para. 5.28) and the supporting documents will be retained by TOPRAKSU, YSE
and TCZB and be available for review by project supervision missions. The
estimated annual disbursements of the Bank and IFAD loans by Bank fiscal years
are as follows:
Table 4.3: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS /1
FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85      FY86     FY87
(US-  million)
Annual:  Bank             7.8       8.5      6.2       7.2       7.4      2.9
IFAD             3.9      4.3       3.1      3.6       3.7       1.4
Cumulative:  Bank         7.8      16.3     22.5      29.7     37.1      40.0)
:  IFAD        3.9       8.2      11.3     14.9      18.6     20.0
/1  A semesterly schedule is shown in Annex 3, CIO.



- 28 -
It is expected that disbursement will be completed on December 31, 1986, and
the closing date of the Bank Loan will be June 30, 1987.
4.51     The disbursement profile for the proposed project has been compared
with various agricultural sector profiles for IBRD loans to EMENA countries,
FY70-80 (Annex 3, CIO), and with that for the CorumrCankiri project. Profiles
for the EMENA Region show the following characteristics:
50% Disbursed:
Class                      No. Projects       Year from Date of Approval
All agricultural projects               67              5th year, 1st half                 d
Rural development subsector              6              4th year, 2nd half
Livestock subsector                      6              3rd year, 1st half
Irrigation subsector                    31              5th year, 2nd half
Under the proposed project, it is estimated that 50% of the loan will be
disbursed during the third year, first half from the date of Board approval,
which is due primarily to large front-end expenditures on heavy equipment,
other machinery and project vehicles.l/ The proposed project also is expected
to disburse more rapidly than the Corum-Cankiri project has. Its format and
organization arrangements were largely derived from the shortcomings of the
Corum-Cankiri arrangements, whic;h could not be anticipated when that project
was appraised, but are now evident as a result of weak interagency
coordinaation and resultant delays. Further, and unlike the Corum-Cankiri
project, there are no major civil works in the proposed project which are
inherently slow disbursing.
G. Environmental Effects
4.52     The project is not expected to have adverse effects on the
environment. The soil conservation component of the small TOPRAKSU schemes,
the gradual replacement of wheat on steep slopes by a perennial fodder crop,
and the pilot range improvement and management demonstrations would reduce
erosion, river silt loads, and flood hazard. Village extension agents will be
trained by Plant Protection SMS in the safe handling and use of plant
protection chemicals. To assist the project, the Regional Research Institute
in Erzincan will make recommendations for treatment and dosages tested under
local conditions.
1/ The procurement of the bulk of these items is already underway, utilizing
the Bank's advance contracting procedures.



- 29 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Project Organization
5.01     By virtue of its multi-sectoral nature, the proposed project requires
an administrative structure that reflects the objectives and interests of'
several entities, especially at the provincial level, but also at the central
level, including MAF, TOPRAKSU, YSE, and TCZB.  Furthermore, project implemen-
tation will be subject to the internal organization and the administrative and
financial procedures of each entity. In this context, and in view of prior
experience with the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project (paras. 2.18,
2.19) and with less complex Bank projects implemented by the MAF or any slingle
entity such as TCZB or TOPRAKSU, a unified structure of decision and adminis-
tration has been established for the project at the provincial level in
Erzurum, with appropriate arrangements at the national level in Ankara
(Annex 3, C8). The agreed project organization therefore addresses the need
for decentralization of executive authority from Ankara to Erzurum province by
establishing a project and office within the office of the provincial
governor, while maintaining coordination among government agencies in Ankara
through a high-level steering committee which SPO would chair. The projetct
organization is depicted in Chart 23290. The steering committee, throughl the
SPO and its Less Developed Regions Department (KOYD), will be responsible for
overall project implementation and coordination.
Management
5.02     Direct project execution in Erzurum will be under the authority of
the governor of the province. The Government will appoint a project manalger,
with appropriately broad education and managerial experience, who would be
assigned to the office of the provincial governor with suitable rank. Thiis
would make it possible under Turkish law for the governor to delegate part of
his considerable authority to the project manager for implementation-related
matters. Operational planning and control would reside with the project
manager, to whom the regional or provincial directors of the participatirng
agencies would be accountable for purposes of the project. A provincial-level
coordinating committee has already been established, chaired by the governor,
to meet periodically to review progress, iron out problems, and coordinate the
provincial operations of TCZB and public enterprises providing inputs to
farmers or marketing services.
5.03     In Ankara, a steering committee has been established by special order
of the Prime Minister and given necessary executive authority to effect
coordination and, through the chair (SPO), to ensure that the central offices
of the participating agencies are carrying out their responsibilities for the
project. SPO/KOYD will maintain, on behalf of the steering committee, a small
secretariat for the overall coordination of interagency contributions to the
work programs, policies and budgets in Ankara and as a channel for insuring
compliance with the loan agreement with the Bank. The project will be
implemented by strengthening the organization and staff of the existing



- 30 -
agencies rather than by creating parallel entities.  In the case of the MAF
the organization needs of the project would fit suitably into the recently
completed reorganization of the multiple services of MAF in Erzurum province.
This includes appointment of a provincial director of agriculture with
authority over all of MAF's fielcd operations (para. 5.08).
5.04     To avoid some of the loc:al coordination difficulties encountered in
the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project, the Government has agreed that
the project manager will play a central role in the annual budgeting of line
agency funds for the project, which normally would be the sole responsibility
of the concerned agencies (see para. 5.26), and done mostly from Ankara. The
project manager would prepare, in close collaboration with the provincial and
regional offices of the participating agencies, annual work programs and
budget requests and submit these through the Governor to the steering
committee, which, in turn, would review these in Ankara with the central
offices of the concerned agencies and the Ministry of Finance, prior to giving
its approval. After the annual budgets have been approved, the project
manager's endorsement would be required for the release and expenditure of all
line agency funds allocated for expenditure on the project in Erzurum. The
establishment of the project organization as an administrative entity,
including project office, provincial level coordinating committee, and central
level steering committee has already been accomplished, while the appointment
of the project manager and suitable staff will be conditions of effectiveness.
B. Reorientation of Provincial Agricultural Services
Concept
5.05     Under the present organization of MAF, there are separate provincial
directors in Erzurum for TZ (on behalf of GDAA), GDPPQ, GDVS, GDANB, and the
field services of the Departments of Forest Villages (GDFV), and Erosion
Control and Reforestation (GDECR), to name the important ones. In addition,
there is an agricultural research institute and veterinary laboratory which
report directly to Ankara, and a cattle AI center. Other organizations in
Erzurum which do not fall within MAF, are TOPRAKSU for irrigation and water
management extension, and SEKER's local sugar beet factory, which supplies
sugar beet farmers with inputs and crop management assistance, as well as
production credit.
5.06     The concept of the multidisciplinary extension services for Erzurum,
to be introduced in the project, differs from the basic structure of GDAA,
which, at the central, provinciail and district levels, currently prepares and
executes work programs for each subject matter separately. This work is not
coordinated with the specialized advice of the other services within MAF, and
only loosely with TOPRAKSU and SEKER at the provincial level through informal
arrangements.  The operational links with MAF's research entities in Erzurum,
similarly are weak. Farmers are thus confronted with specialized and
conflicting recommendations which address neither the totality nor the
integrated nature of their mixed-fatrming operations.



- 31 -
5.07     Under the project there would be a shift in the planning and
budgeting from the central to the provincial level for GDAA' s services.
Second, technicians who are presently assigned to specialist functions at the
district level would be reassigned to multidisciplinary functions in the
village clusters, as well as at the district level. Third, the reorientation
will require considerable cooperation by other entities within MAF, and other
ministries, to effectively utilize the multidisciplinary VEAs, and will
require interagency participation in the establishment of work programs,
training and advice to VEAs through the SMS, and through a less direct
relationship by assisting in training, joint organization of farmer demonstra-
tions and field days, exchange of audiovisual and printed information, and the
like. Therefore, appropriate interagency protocols have been signed by GDAA,
GDPPQ, GDVS, GDANB and TOPRAKSU to govern the provision of SMS' services for
TZ and the interagency training of TZ's SMS and VEAs, and second, between
GDAA, GDVS, Ataturk University and SPO to govern use of university facilities,
faculty and staff for the project. The expected services to be provided for
VEA reorientation and training are outlined in Chapter IV and detailed in
Annex 3, C4.
Provincial Director of Agriculture
5.08     The reorientation of agricultural services in the province will be
supported by the general reorganization of MAF's internal structure
(para. 2.06). Erzurum has been selected as one of the provinces in Turkey
wherein the multifarious provincial services have recently been consolidated
under three provincial departments--one each for agricultural research and
extension (including plant protection), livestock, and forestry services--and
overseen by a newly appointed provincial director of agriculture. The
provincial director has been given considerable responsibility for the annual
programming, budgeting and training of MAF's provincial services, and has
oversight authority to ensure that field operations, training and research
programs are carried out with the desired degree of coordination. The
specialized departments of the GDAA in Ankara will continue to provide
technical support, but have been divested of operational control. During the
implementation period, the project manager exercising powers delegated by the
Governor, will assist MAF's provincial director, as necessary, to secure the
required degree of cooperation from the provincial or regional services of the
participating agencies.
First-Year Operations
5.09     The extension work program for the first year of project activity is
necessarily modest, and will utilize, in the main, MAF's existing staff in
Erzurum.   To prepare for inception of the program, it was agreed during
negotiations that VEAs would be reassigned as necessary to villages in the
Dumlu, Tasagil, Yigittasi, and Tortum village clusters, and prior to
September 15, 1982, would be sent on a field visit to the Corum-Cankiri area
for initial training and familiarization. They would return to the project
area for further training by SMS and familiarization with project syllabi,
then begin their work. It was further agreed that a senior extension
specialist from the CorumrCankiri project would be posted to Erzurum for six
months beginning not later than September 15, 1982 to assist inter aliaL with
the preparation of syllabi and training materials, detailed extension work
programs, and the training of the VEAs.



- 32 -
Forest Village Areas
5.10     The GDFV provides technical and financial assistance in the field of
agriculture to some 195 forest villages in the province. Its capacity is
limited, however, and performance has been lacking. To prevent overlap and
duplication with the project extension services, an assurance was received
during negotiations that TZ will have sole responsibility for providing
extension services in the project to the forest villages; however, GDFV's
provincial arm will participate in TZ's work programming for forest village
areas.
C.  Civil Works
Construction Management
5.11     Extreme winter climatic conditions in the Erzurum area, including
heavy snows and low temperatures from October through April, normally limit
the construction season to the 5-month period between May and September. The
diverse locations and different construction methods used for the many small
and geographically scattered infrastructure units, the very short construction
season, the mountainous terrain, and the remote location of Erzurum itself
will not permit the packaging of works into attractive sized contracts.l!
Therefore, a modified force account method of construction will be utilized,
whereby TOPRAKSU and YSE would do the heavy machine excavation, trenching,
road base construction, grading and surfacing, and supply materials requiring
government priority procurement. Several small labor contractors and
craftsmen in Erzurum will be utilized for shaping and concrete lining of
canals, installation of gates and turnouts, installation of pipelines, valves
and structures, and construction of road cross-drainage structures following
TOPRAKSU's and YSE's standard construction procedures in Eastern Turkey.
Under these procedures, about 33% of the required civil works would be
accomplished by the small labor contractors, and the balance on government
force account. The anticipated breakdown of civil works costs for
infrastructure between contract and force account is shown in Annex 3, CO.
5.12     Construction activities would be directly supervised and indirectly
managed by Erzurum regional offices of TOPRAKSU and YSE with supportive
supervision and management from their central offices in Ankara. Programming
and budgeting for the project would be initiated by the respective regional
directorates in consultation with the project office.  Final design and
construction criteria, contract docuiments, materials and equipment
procurement, accounting and vouchering would be performed at the central
offices, in coordination with the secretariat of the steering committee.
Landowners in Erzurum normally contribute rights-of-way and access in exchange
for foreseeable benefits, and land acquisition is not expected to present
problems.
1/ There are no prime contractors located near Erzurum.



- 33 -
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
5.13     O&M of the project irrigation facilities would be performed by t:he
water users, through cooperatives or water user associations organized under
the village muktar. Funds for maintenance costs would be collected from the
water users by the associations and labor would be donated by the water
users. It was agreed that TOPRAKSU would train about ten local irrigation
foremen in operation of project facilities, irrigation practices and water
use, and land preparation at its training center in Tarsus. These foremen,
one for each 1,000 ha, would be paid an annual salary by the water users.
TOPRAKSU would assist the water users in making major repairs where equipment
is required. This method of O&M by the water users has worked very success-
fully on TOPRAKSU's small irrigation projects throughout the country.
5.14     Maintenance of village roads, including snow removal, repairs,
grading and periodic reshaping, would be perfonmed by YSE's regional mainte-
nance staff. Because of the severe winters in the area, the roads would need
more repair than normal and snow removal and rescue will be a major cost
factor.  It is estimated that the following annual maintenance work would be
required on the 804 km of new project improved roads and the 655 km of
existing village roads in the project area:
5%  (75 km)    -    major repair work
35% (510 km)    -    normal repair and reshaping
60% (874 km)    -    annual grading only.
Three subdistrict road maintenance buildings are included in the project plan
and provision for procuring the necessary supplemental maintenance machinery
are included in project costs.
5.15    -O&M of the village domestic water supply system would be carried out
by the village water users with assistance from YSE. On similar systems in
the past, villagers have failed to properly maintain the domestic water supply
facilities due mainly to lack of properly trained operational personnel4, To
avoid this problem on project facilities, overseas and beneficiary training
programs will be provided whereby three YSE technicians would receive overseas
training to specialize in the O&M of water supply systems, pumping units,
water quality sampling and testing, and training techniques. Upon completion
of each water supply system, these technicians would spend one week with the
village muktar and selected system operators to familiarize them with the
various parts and functions of the system and proper O&M methods. Following
this training period, the facilities would be turned over to the villagers who
will assume the O&M responsibilities and costs (including the cost of pumping
energy). The YSE technicians would periodically monitor the villagers O&M
procedures and provide advice as needed. All YSE developed village domestic
water systems in the 34 village clusters (250 existing and 142 new systems)
would be included in the O&M plan. YSE regional staff would assist the
villagers in major repair problems and in periodic replacement of pumping
equipment.



- 34 -
5.16     YSE would also assume the responsibility from the provincial health
services for water quality sampling, testing for chemical and bacteriological
contents and treatment of all the 392 village systems in the core village area
during and after project developmient. Assurances to this effect were provided
during negotiations.
D. On-Lending Terms and Procedures
Farm Lending
5.17     Subborrower eligibility for on-farm lending will be determined in
accordance with TCZB's Agricultural iCredit Guidelines (Annex to Circular 4770,
June 1979), which procedure is satisfactory. Sub-borrower loan applications
for financing will be evaluated and approved in accordance with provisions of
a protocol which has been signed by TCZB and GDAA. The evaluation of
sub-borrower applications for investment credit will be based upon farm plans
prepared by GDAA extension officers and TCZB, as is standard TCZB practice in
Bank financed projects.  The evaluation of applications for production credit
will be based upon standard per ha requirements for various crops, or per
animal requirements for animal feeds,, which will be established by the
provincial extension service in consultation with TCZB. In accordance with
TCZB's recently extended delegation of authority, plans for less than TL
500,000 (US$5,000 equivalent) credit will be approved and funded on the
authority of the local TCZB manager, with copies to the project office and TZ
provincial and TCZB regional and head offices. Plans for credit in excess of
TL 500,000 but less than TL 1,000,000 (US$10,000 equivalent) will be reviewed
by TZ provincial head of service and will be forwarded by the latter to the
local TCZB manager for transmission to the Encouragement and Development Loan
Department (EDLD) in Ankara for approval. Applications in excess of
TL 1,000,000 will further need the approval of the Provincial Director of
Agriculture and will be submitted by him to EDLD for transmission to the
General Director and Board of TCZB for approval. In recent years, these
credit limits have been periodically increased by TCZB to adjust for domestic
inflation. The basic procedure outlined above was followed in eight previous
projects and was satisfactory.
5.18     In accordance with TCZB's credit guidelines, individual farmer
contributions to investment plans will be at least 10% in the case of small
and medium size farmers and at least 30% in the case of large farmers. For
purposes of assessing the creditworthiness of small farmers, a portion of the
collateral requirement may be satisfied by chattel mortgage to TCZB on farm
assets and the equity itself can be paid in over several years. Credit will
be provided for incremental out-of-pocket costs of labor only in special cases
where, in the written opinion of the technician preparing the plan and the
concerned TCZB manager, it is considered necessary.
Lending for Apiculture and MCCs
5.19     Investment credit for the establishment of beekeeping operations by
farmers in the project will be administered in the same way as agricultural
investment credits, and offered on the same terms and conditions. However,
before an applicant can be considered eligible for a subloan, the person will



- 35 -
be required to attend one of the formal courses in beekeeping offered by TZ in
Erzurum Province and obtain a training certificate. Preparation of financing
plans for investment lending for honey packaging and marketing units and MCCs
will be the sole responsibility of the TCZB's Regional Office technicians in
Erzurum since these facilities are classified as agroindustries. Since each
honey packaging unit is expected to require an investment credit of TL 8.05
million, the three refurbished MCCs will require loans of TL 2.0 million and
each of the seven new MCCs, a loan of TL 2.6 million, the financing plan will
be submitted to the Regional Office Manager for endorsement to EDLD and TCZB's
Board in Ankara for approval. If a cooperative is established, the minimum
equity contribution will be 10%, if the apiculturalists choose to incorporate,
the minimum equity contribution will increase to 30% as provided in TCZB's
regulations. TCZB will satisfy itself before approving such subloans thaLt the
organization is financially capable of providing the required equity.l/
TCZB's technical staff in Erzurum also will prepare the financing plans for
the MCC's. Prior to submission of each loan application and financing plan
for honey packaging units and MCCs to EDLD, the Regional Manager will obtain
the endorsement of the Provincial Director of Agriculture and the Project
Manager, who will review the locational and technical aspects of the
application.
Interest Rate
5.20     Responding to the continuing inflation in Turkey, interest charged on
loans by TCZB has been revised upwards three times since April 1979. In late
1981, following indications that Turkey's inflation was abating at a faster
rate than expected, TCZB's interest rates for agricultural lending were
reduced by 2% per annum to the present level, while the 25% transactions tax
on interest was abolished. The interest rate subsidy for borrowers in
underdeveloped regions was correspondingly reduced to its present level of
about 15% of interest paid. Under the project, medium- and long-term subloans
will be made at least at a basic rate of 22% per annum to individual farmers
for subloans for investment in machinery, implements and farm buildings, 20%
to cooperatives for honey packaging units and MCC, or 30% if a corporation is
established. Supervised short-term production credits will be made available
at the basic rate of 20% per annum. The rebates to individual borrowers
located in underdeveloped regions would reduce the effective medium-term
interest rates in Erzurum province to 18.7% for individuals, 17% for
cooperatives and 25.5% for corporations. The effective cost of short-term
production credit will be 20%.
5.21     While the aforementioned rates remain negative in real terms thie
actual cost should be measured over the commitment period and expected life of
the loans. Annual inflation accelerated from 24% in 1977 to 105% per arnum in
1980, but fell dramatically during 1981 to an annualized rate of about 35%
following the adoption of comprehensive economic stabilization measures.. As a
result, inflation may continue to decline to reach a much lower and tolerable
1/ Annex 3, C12 contains cash flows for the honey packaging and marketing
units and MCCs, which indicate they would be able to service an investment
credit from TCZB.



- 36 -
level in the mid-1980s, in which case the lowest effective charge of 18.7% per
annum on investment credits may be expected to imply a positive real rate of
about 4.5% over the life of the loans (Annex 3, C7), which, while still low,
is tolerable in view of project objectives. TCZB's cumulative cash flow under
the project would also be positive in real terms (Annex 3, C7). Further,
nearly 100% of project beneficiaries will be small farmers with per capita
family incomes at or below the relative poverty level of US$335 per capita in
1980. Neverthless they will pay a sales tax on marketed produce (para. 5.23),
which provides no exemptions for small-scale farming.
5.22     The maturity for the investment credits will be 5 years with 1 year
grace for on-farm lending, and 10 years with 3 years grace for beekeeping,
honey packaging investments and MCCs. Debt service of sub-borrowers will be
in equal installments. The appropriateness of the interest rates charged by
TCZB will be periodically reviewued in light of changing conditions by TCZB,
the Government, and the Bank, as provided for in the Fifth Livestock
Development and Second Fruit and Vegetables Projects. The agreements will
thereafter be implemented. Assurances on these terms and conditions were
obtained at negotiations.
E. Cost Recovery and Reduction of Subsidies
5.23     Cost Recovery.  The villagers will shoulder all of the O&M costs for
project irrigation and water supply facilities, with the exception of major
damage, as provided by current laws and regulations for project-type
facilities, immediately after the systems have been tested.  The estimate of
annual 0&M costs for new irrigation and water supply installations following
construction (including training,, monitoring etc.) is summarized below:
Facility               Villagers     TOPRAKSU       Total
and YSE       Annual
 -----------(US$ '000)     
irrigation                     120           205           325
Village Water Supply           355            96           451
Total                     475           301          776
The portion of annual O&M costs to be shouldered by Government is estimated at
US$301,000. This would be more than offset by a general 5% sales tax on
agricultural produce introduced in January 1981, which, by project year 10
(1992), is expected to yield US$1.5 million per year from beneficiaries in the
project area. To protect the Government's investment in the village water
supply systems, a specific assurance was obtained that written agreement would
be acquired from the village water users certifying that they will take the
responsibility for system O&M including payment of pumping energy charges.
Such certification would be acquired before new water supply systems are
constructed in the project.



- 37 -
5.24     Presently, TOPRAKSU and YSE are proscribed by law from recovering
investment costs of project-type works, although the Government has informed
the Bank that it is considering appropriate legislation to enable TOPRAKSU to
recover investment costs. In view of this statement, the small size of the
project's irrigation component, and the fact that the 5% sales tax on marketed
produce in Erzurum will fall largely on produce from irrigated farms
(including the considerable amounts to be collected over and above project 0&M
requirements (para. 5.23)), additional measures will be discussed with
Government as part of the Bank's ongoing policy dialogue with Government, and
dealt with more specifically during preparation of the proposed irrigation
completion projects.
Reduction of Subsidies
5.25     Some of the project's agricultural and livestock services will
introduce unfamiliar concepts and production techniques to project villages,
including rangeland improvement and management, control of parasitism and
artificial insemination, which will be introduced without charge through pilot
demonstrations in selected villages (paras. 4.05, 4.13 and 4.15). In
addition, plant protection activities will be expanded and intensified
(para. 4.10). The Government assured that all appropriate measures would be
taken to pass on the costs of these services, to an extent that Government
continues to provide these subsequent to completion of the demonstration
period.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.26     Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations to the
effect that clearly identified project accounts would be established by the
concerned project entities, to be consolidated by the project office and the
steering committee, and reflected as such in the Annual Investment Program to
serve as a basis for controlling disbursements. To assist with the
establishment and operation of the project accounting system, a full-time
financial control officer would be assigned to the project office as soon as
it comes into existence as a legal entity (para. 4.35). The permanent
secretariat to the steering committee in Ankara would maintain separate
accounts, which would serve to periodically monitor the financial control
activities of the project office, and to consolidate expenditures approved
locally (in Erzurum) with expenditures requiring approval by Ankara including
all international procurement using proceeds of the proposed Bank loan.
Agreement on the above procedures was obtained at negotiations.
5.27     By budgeting all project accounts under the Annual Investment
Program, except for the credit component for which funds would be onlent to
TCZB by the Ministry of Finance, the existing accounting procedures of the
various project agencies would be adequate to identify disbursements of Bank
funds during the first year of the project with the exception of agricultural
inputs needed for demonstrations (for which estimated disbursements will not
exceed US$160,000). Thereafter, the new procedures to be introduced under the
project, coordinant with the legal enactment of the project organization and
its staffing, including the establishment of consolidated accounts and
refinements to safeguard disbursements against statements of expenditure, will
be in effect.



- 38 -
5.28     The audit performance for Bank projects in the agricultural sector
has been deficient, both in respect of credit disbursements (TCZB) and various
expenditure items carried under the annual recurrent budget (line agencies),
wherein no distinction is made between "normal" agency expenditures and those
financed by withdrawals under Bank loans. TCZB's management and financial
control system has been studied by consultants financed under Loan 1248-TU,
whose recommendations, if adopted by TCZB, would satisfy the Bank's accounting
and internal audit requirements. With regard to external auditing of TCZB and
line agencies, Turkey has been selected as one of the countries for a Bank
survey in the EMENA region, and it is anticipated that one of the results of
this survey will be the development of a program to improve the training of
the Finance Ministry's financial inspectors in accounting and auditing
procedures. Meanwhile agreement was reached during negotiations that all
project accounts would be audited annually in accordance with the existing
government audit guidelines. Because of the aforementioned deficiencies in
government auditing procedures, it wais further agreed that the steering
committee would provide suitable v,erified financial statements within six
months after the close of each fiscal year.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.29     Timely monitoring and systematic evaluation of project achievement
would be administered by the steering, committee, assisted by the project
office and the main cooperating agencies. Details of monitoring and
evaluation methodologies were explained to the implementing agencies during
project preparation and negotiations. It was agreed that monitoring would
consist of two parts. The first would be project benefit monitoring to be
made up of three socioeconomic and farm management surveys:  one at project
inception, a mid-implementation survey, and a post implementation survey
immediately following the implementation period, to be supported by in-depth
village studies of longer duration, and specific technical surveys. The
steering committee will arrange and supervise the surveys and studies, which
would be contracted out to independent agencies following discussions of the
detailed survey/study designs and work plans with the Bank. The steering
committee's survey and study work will be supplemented by technical and
productivity monitoring, to be carried out by TZ in collaboration with Ataturk
University and by TOPRAKSU and YSE's regional directorates. TZ will
continuously monitor the rate of acceptance of the new agricultural and animal
management packages to be developed in the project, and derive simple
performance criteria to measure yields and animal productivity.  These will be
used to evaluate the technical perfornance of farmers using the packages.
TOPRAKSU will conduct a survey of lands to be commanded by improved irrigation
facilities in the project, including ian assessment of cropping patterns, crop
yields, and water requirements, and, where traditional irrigation is presently
practiced, of canal conveyance losses, irrigation efficiencies, and O&M costs,
to establish a technical baseline. Following development of the new project
facilities, a continual monitoring program would be carried out to evaluate
the changes, effects, and benefits resulting in these areas from the new
project water supply and facilities, the irrigation foreman program, and
applied irrigation research program. For the rural road segments to be
improved in the project, YSE will initiate baseline traffic counts, to be



- 39 -
followed by periodic traffic count surveys following road completion. These
surveys would include traffic volume plus types of transport and loads in
order to evaluate the usage increase and benefits resulting from rural road
development in the project area.
5.30     The steering committee would submit to the Bank semi-annual progress
reports with summaries from the Project Manager, Provincial Director of
Agriculture, GDAA, GDPPQ, GDVS, GDANB, TOPRAKSU, YSE and TCZB, which would
include an assessment of technical and financial aspects. The report will be
prepared according to a format agreed upon during negotiations and will be
*         forwarded to the Bank within two months from the end of each six-month
period. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Routine
records for the implementation of project components, e.g., staffing,
technical, financing and economic aspects, will be kept by each agency. In
addition, the steering committee would prepare a completion report and submit
it to the Bank within six months of the loan closing date.  An assurance to
this effect was obtained during negotiations.
H.  International Commodity Agreements
5.31     Under the project, it is expected that incremental production oi.
commodities governed by international commodity agreements, namely beef,
mutton, wheat and sugar beet, will form only a small part of annual world
production, and with the possible exception of mutton, it is unlikely that
much of this production will enter international trade. The Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department has therefore advised that consultation
with international commodity organizations is not required.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Technical Packages and Production
Production
6.01     Agricultural production increases will be based largely on improved
rainfed cereal and forage production, intensification and expansion of
irrigation, and improvement of animal production. The technical croppirLg and
livestock packages to be introduced in the project for this purpose are
discussed in Annex 3, C4 and C5. Wheat yields on the better soils would be
measurably improved while land use on some of the poorer and more eroditble
land would be converted to hay production.  Because of the importance of
livestock production and the wide scope for improvement, an important project
impact stemming from rainfed and irrigated crop production would be the
provision of additional animal feed. The expected incremental yields as a
result of the project are displayed in Table 6.1.



- 40 -
Table 6.1:  INCREMENTAL CROP & ANIMAL PRODUCT YIELDS
Without         With               %
Project       Project          Increase
= ----(kg/ha)----
Crops
Wheat, upland                       700         1,000            43
Wheat, lowland                    1,000         1,600            60
Wheat, irrigated                  1,800         2,700            50
Barley, lowland                     900         1,400            55
Barley, irrigated                 1,800         2,500            39
Barley, lowland (hay)             2,000         3,800            90
Sugarbeets                       21,000        25,000            19
Potatoes                         17,000        25,000            47
Vegetables (tomatoes)            14,000        20,000            43
Pulses (dry beans)                  800         1,400            75
Fruit (apples)                    5,500         9,000            64
Meadows (hay)                     2,000         2,500            25
Without
Project         With Project /2          % Increase
Package      ackage 2   Package 1  Package 2
---(kg/]00 head herd unit)/3---
Animal Products /1
Cattle, carcass            936       1,440       2,300            54         146
Sheep, carcass             366         519         703            42          92
Cattle, milk            14,800      15,355      16,640             3          12
Sheep, milk              1,316       1,387       1,560             5          19
Wool                        96          97          107            1          11
/1  From native animals only.
/2  Package 1 contains vaccines only; Package 2 includes vaccines, drugs,
better feeding and management (para 4.14).
/3  Herd composition changes from without to with project conditions
(Annex 3, C12).
As a result of these yield increases, the incremental production indicated in
Table 6.2 is expected to be realized during the tenth year following project
inception.



- 41 -
Table 6.2: INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION AT YEAR TEN /1
Without         With       Incremental          %
Project       Project      Production       Increase
------------('000 tons)-----------
Wheat                    104          124              20            19
Barley                    54           65              11            20
Pulses                     2             3              1            50
Vegetables                56           86              30            53
Potatoes                 136          190              54            39
Sugarbeets               120          143              23            19
Fruit                     17           25               8            47
Hay                      162          222              60            37
Cow's milk               170.2        171.6             1.4           0.8
Sheep's milk              29.6         30.3             0.7           2.4
Beef (carcass)            10.8         11.9             1.1          10.2
Mutton ( " )               8.2          9.4             1.2          14.6
Wool                       2.2          2.2 +      Negligible
/1  Ten years after beginning of project.  Without Project estimates and
percentage increase are for entire province. Incremental production
estimates are based on project impact on 35% of farmers, 45% of cultivated
area (including fallow), 21% of sheep and 9% of cattle population of the
province. For incremental livestock production, benefits from Al have not
been considered.
6.02     At full development (1998), the gross value of production of farm
enterprises would consist of 52% from crops and forage and 48% from live-
stock. This reflects the expected shift in the composition of farm income
from the pre-project situation wherein crops and forage accounted for only 37%
and animal products accounted for 63%.
B. Markets and Prices
Markets
6.03     Crops and Honey.  Although the country has achieved self-sufficiency
in cereals, Erzurum, with its concentration on livestock and crops being of
secondary importance, has been a wheat deficit region. Production of wheat in
the province has averaged about 100,000 tons per year, with considerable
variation due to local weather conditions; in 1980, production dropped to
57,000 tons. Assuming an average per capita consumption of 200 kg for the
rural population and 120 kg for the urban population, and a 1.4% per annum
population increase, (which Erzurum experienced from 1975-80), demand in the
province would be about 158,000 tons by 1990, which is still about 34,000 tons
more than the expected production. Thus, the province will most likely
continue in wheat deficit, but the project would prevent it from becoming even



- 42 -
more so. It is estimated that about 65% of the incremental wheat production,
or 13,000 tons, and about 30% of the incremental barley, or 3,000 tons, would
reach the market; the rest would be kept at the farm level for human and
animal consumption.
6.04     The fruit, vegetable, pulse, sugar and honey production in the
province would be used locally or contribute to meeting increasing national
demand. For fruits and vegetables, there is a definite regional demand to
meet nutritional requirements and, possibly, some opportunity for exports
under the Government export drive for horticultural products. The
interprovincial markets for sugar and honey also are well organized.  In the
proposed project, credit would bea provided for establishment of honey
packaging and marketing cooperatives, to enable beekeepers to achieve the
necessary scale in marketing to reap the high prices paid for volume purchases
by honey wholesalers in Erzurum.
6.05     Animal Products.  According to recent Bank projections, Turkey could
face deficits of meat in the order of 23% of domestic demand for beef and
veal, 36% for lamb and mutton, and 27% for poultry by 1985. However, during
the last several years prices of livestock and meat increased considerably in
the domestic markets, and both total demand and slaughters were reduced.
Simultaneously, recorded exports increased, and in 1980 reached over 800,000
head of live sheep and about 5,600 tons of mutton and lamb.  Using EBK's
estimate of per capita consumption (15 kg) in Erzurum and the mission's
production estimate of 23,000 tonIs of beef and mutton by 1990, the province
would have about 9,000 tons surplus to its needs, which would either be
slaughtered locally and shipped out in the form of chilled carcass or sold to
an extensive network of feedlot fatteners for slaughter in neighboring
provinces. Erzurum is also geographlically well situated to take advantage of
export markets in Iran, Iraq and Syria, both for chilled carcass and live
animal sales, and the private sector has already begun to respond to these
opportunities.
6.06     Nationally, a milk deficit of about 11% of demand, or around 600,000
tons of raw milk, has been forecast by 1990 by the Bank-financed Milk Industry
Study; however, it is recognized that the regional distribution of available
milk supplies places Erzurum in aL surplus position and, with the project, by
1990 the province would have about 100,000 tons of surplus milk. At present,
roughly one-third of the province's total milk production reaches the market
through three main channels: (a) via the 35-40 privately-owned mandira
cheese-making units with 5-10 t/day capacity, which utilize an informal system
of contract through which cheese manufacturing, marketing and credit services
are brought to farmers who have lactating animals on summer pasture. The
finished cheese is then delivered to traders and wholesalers for removal to
Ankara and other urban centers. The system is flexible, operating as it does
throughout Central and Eastern Turkey, and can be expected to respond to the
marketing requirements for incremental sheep milk in the project. However,
mandiras only operate for two to three months each year (following the lambing
season), and thus are not available to process much cow's milk; (b) hundreds
of milk peddlers who buy raw milk in proximity to large towns and urban
centers for prompt sale, and pay farmers very good prices as a result of the
premium which fresh raw milk sales command (however, farmers at distances of
50 km or more from the towns and urban centers are disadvantaged); and (c)



- 43 -
TSEK's Erzurum plant. Being bound by rigid pricing and employment policies,
and particularly by its limited milk collection capability, TSEK--an SEE---
fails to utilize more than 10% of its 40 t/day capacity in Erzurum, but
otherwise could avail the farmers of its useful cheese-making and storage
facilities, especially for the sales of cow's milk. The same applies to
TSEK-owned milk collection centers in the province, which remain unutilized.
In the project, MCCs will be rehabilitated or established under credit to
improve the efficiency of milk collection and marketing.
6.07     Farmers in the project area have the option of selling wool to TYT,
the Sumerbank or private dealers.  TYT also has a thread-processing factory
under construction in Dumlu, which could easily accommodate incremental
production.
Prices
6.08     Project inputs and output prices used in the financial analysis are
based on local market or supplier prices in Erzurum as of June 1981, and
various commodity price forecasts. These were adjusted for trend, season-
ality, and carried back to the farmgate.  Financial prices of agricultural
goods in Turkey are influenced by government intervention in such forms as
procurement at support prices, promotion of subsidized inputs and marketing
services, and direct participation in production and processing. As to
whether support prices are floor or ceiling prices depends on the product, the
local conditions, the pressure brought to bear on Government by producers, the
time in the crop cycle, and the position of the private market sector. By
September 1981, the Government had increased the price of chemical fertilizers
about 50% above their June 1981 levels, as another step toward elimination of
agricultural subsidies, though at the same time, it announced a 15% increase
in the support price for wheat.
C. Financial Analysis
Producers' Incomes
6.09     To test the project's expected effect on farmers' incomes, three farm
models were developed based on variations of owner-operated small (0-5 ha) and
medium-sized (5-10 ha) farms which together represent 89% of all farms in
Erzurum. All three assume adoption by the farmer of improved cultural
practices, a reduction of wheat area on erodible, shallow soil and a
corresponding increase in semi-permanent fodder, intensification of lowland
crops including wheat, and adoption of the full livestock improvement paickage
for the local breeds of cattle and sheep (e.g. the more costly and slowetr
gestating package). The farmers are expected to receive short-term credit for
up to 75% of their purchased input requirements. Medium-term loans would be
provided for hay barn improvement and forage harvesting equipment. The second
small farm model (Model B in the following table) includes the provision of
irrigation water on 1/3 of the land.
6.10     Live animals and milk would constitute the main components of
marketable production, while a small increase of cereal production would
provide the small farmers with an adequate supply for home consumption. Farm
family income from agriculture would increase from US$480 to US$1,037 from



- 44 -
small farms without irrigation expansion (Model A), from US$455 to US$1,272 on
small dryland farms receiving irrigation on 1 ha as a result of the project
(Model B), and from US$1,200 to US$2,700 on the medium-size farms (Model C).
When non-farm income data is added, as adjusted from MAF's 1978 village
survey, total per capita income in the three situations would increase by 45%,
74% and 80%, respectively, to US$175, 209 and 411 per annum, as shown below.
Per Capita Annual Income /1
Model      Farm Size         Livestock            Without Project   With Project /2
Farm A       3 ha         3 breeding cows                121               175
9 breeding ewes
Farm B       3 ha         3 breeding ,-ows               120               209
9 breeding ewes
Farm C       7 ha         5 breeding cows                228               411
23 breeding ewes
/1  Based on farm models (Annex 3, C12) with;  (1) deduction of 5% tax on
marketable surplus; (2) family Labor costed at zero; (3) no deduction for
consumption of farm produce; and (4) the proportion of income from
non-farm sources progressive:Ly declines.
/2 At full development (years 15-17).
6.11     The average farm family comprises 7 members, and family incomes
typically include 30 to 50% of total family income from off-farm sources such
as outside labor, pensions, and remittances from abroad. With increased labor
requirements due to the project, off-farm incomes are expected to decline,
both as percentage of total family income and in real terms. Though precise
income data from the Prime Ministry's 1980 Household Income Surveys were
unavailable to the appraisal mission, it is well known that Erzurum is one of
the least developed provinces ancl that project farmers' incomes are consid-
erably less than either the average per capita GDP of US$1,400 or the rural
GDP of US$535. The relative rural poverty level for Turkey in 1980 was about
US$335 per capita (Annex 3, C15). Thus, farm household income in all of the
farm models under without project conditions is less than the poverty
threshold.
6.12      In addition to the farm benefits, the provision of 32,000 modern
beehives will allow about 1,000 landless or small farmers to become
established as beekeepers and some 500 existing beekeepers to expand their
production. Income from these activities are shown below on the basis of the
enterprise, rather than per capita, 'because such operations are generally
supplemental to other farming activities or outside employment:
No. of        Current              Beekeeping Income /1
Model              Hives          Status          Without Project    With Project
Al Beekeeper          25     no beekeeping                                  1,337
A2 Beekeeper          10     no beelceeping                -                  566
B Beekeeper           25     experienced beekeepers,    188                 1,337
traditional hives
/1 Based on beekeeping models (Annex 3, C12) with reduction of 5% of gross
value of production for taxes and family labor costed at zero.



- 45 -
Financial Rate of Return
6.13     Producers' and processors' benefits and the financial rates of return
(FRR) derived from the models are summarized in Table 6.3. All FRRs indicate that
it should be financially rewarding for farmers to utilize the investment and/or
production credits and to introduce the supporting technology.  Operating incomes
for all participating farmers are anticipated to more than double, and beekeepers
will have substantial incremental family income from the introduction or expansion
of this activity. Non-farm income was included in the analysis of the farrn models,
which is expected to decline in the with-project situation due to increased
utilization of family labor on-farm. The sensitivity analysis indicates that all
models show greatest sensitivity to a two-year lag or a 20% decrease in benefits,
but are relatively insensitive to increases in operating costs. Farm model A
assumes no investments, and no basic FRR is estimated; it is included in Table 6.3
only to show its sensitivity to various assumptions in costs and benefits. For the
processing units (honey packaging units and milk collection centers), a decrease in
benefits or revenues is assumed to be associated with a decrease in the purchase of
raw materials, and appropriate adjustments were made; thus decrease in benefits
actually reflects decrease in operating capacity. Sensitivity analyses are in
Annex 3, C13. The trends in price paid to farmers (Annex 3, C13) and the with- and
without-project budgets indicate that the best estimate of the basic return is more
likely to be the case than the lower values indicated in the sensitivity tests.
6.14     The breakdown of the number of sub-borrowers and their income levels with
comparison to the poverty level is shown in Annex 3, C15. It is estimated that
nearly 100% of borrowers are expected to be at or below the relative rural poverty
level which includes all of the farm models and most of the honey producers. Of
the total funds to be on-lent under the project from Bank and IFAD sources,
amounting to about US$22.2 million, funds for on-farm investment, production credit
and loans to beekeepers will amount to US$20.9 million, or about 94% of total
on-lending of Bank and IFAD funds.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Beneficiaries and Employment
7.01     Through its various components the Project is expected to benefit
approximately 36,230 rural families or 253,600 people, representing 32% of the
rural population of Erzurum Province. Nearly all are presently earning incomes
below the relative rural poverty level (US$335 in 1980). By full development, as a
result of intensified agricultural extension services, improved cultural practices
would be applied by 28,000 farmers on 126,600 ha. These include an estimated
10,000 farmers who would benefit from new or more secure irrigation, whicln would
not only increase their incomes but, perhaps more important, would alleviate the
sharp income reductions resulting from periodic droughts for those who depend
largely on rainfed agriculture and grazing. Some 8,000 farm families would also
benefit from animal health improvements as compared with before project, while
about 2,500 farms would implement the full improved animal health, management and
feeding package. As a result of the project, it is expected that between 25-35% of
the direct beneficiaries would realize sufficient increased incomes (paras.
6.10-6.12) to move out of poverty. Incomes of the remaining direct beneficiaries
would be considerably increased, although they would remain below the poverty
level. However, all beneficiaries would also benefit from the project's roads and
social infrastructure components.



Table 6.3: OPERATING INCOMES AND FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
Estimated Net Operating
Income from Project    Financial Perfor-
Activities /1       mance Indicators/2                 Sensitivity Analysis
Without      With      FRR       NPV                  Benefits              Operating Costs
Project    Project             at 12%      -10%    -20%  lagged 2 yrs.   +10%         +20%
- ----- -Us$-
Farm A                       480      1,037        *       704.3        *       -        4.4           -         79.3
Farm B                       455       1,272     70.4   1,211.2       47.4    21.5       10.7         60.2       49.1
Farm C                     1i201      2,702      28.4   1,970.6       21.2    12.9       10.4         25.6       22.5
Beekeeping (Al)                -      1,422      41.8      576.6      36.3    30.5       22.7         40.6       34.3       4
Beekeeping (A2)                -         570     39.6      222.5      34.2    28.9       21.9         38.4       37.3
Beekeeping (B)               200      1,422      41.3      490.4      35.9    30.6       23.0         40.1       39.0
Honey Packaging Unit           -           -     44.4   9,485.1       28.3    10.4        9.7         33.6       21.2
Milk Collection
Center (new)                            -      24.6   4,655.4       17.6    10.9      10.3         20.5        16.5
Milk Collection
Center (refurbished)         -          -      39.5   4,061.2       24.1     7.0       8.6         29.6        19.2
/1 Without allowance for depreciation and before deducting 5% tax on marketable surplus.
/2 After deducting 5% tax on marketable surplus and, for farmers, reflects loss of off-farm income on account
of increased labor requirements for farming activities with the project.
*   Very high.
t 



- 47 -
7.02     As a result of the project, in ten years, some 4,500 man/years of
incremental employment will be created, of which 66% would be from
intensification of livestock production and the remainder from crop and forage
production. The small farmers (below 4 ha), constituting 57% of the total,
would be able to absorb the additional work requirement through the family
labor force, which would increase its workload by 50% when irrigation is
provided, and by 36% with no incremental irrigation. With the project, the
middle size farms approach their full labor capacity and upwards from 25% of
the incremental labor requirements would have to be met by hiring extra
workers.  These are recruited from among the 7% landless rural population and
from the seasonal surplus labor on small farms.
7.03     Assuming a 67% absorption of the incremental employment by family
labor, about 1,500 new jobs of 300 man/days each would be created by the
project (Annex 3, C15).  Given the seasonal nature of the incremental work and
alternative demands on the labor of the beneficiaries, 50 work days per year
are estimated per beneficiary. On this basis, 9,000 persons or 9% of the
employable workforce in the project area would benefit.
B. Economic Rate of Return
7.04     The principal benefits at full development (1998, year 17) will arise
from the incremental production of agricultural products (TL 4,183 million in
1981 prices), namely hay and straw (TL 850 million), tubers and pulses (TL 792
million, mostly potatoes), grains (TL 744 million, mostly wheat), fruit and
vegetables (TL 529 million), and of livestock products (TL 1,268 million),
principally meat (TL 968 million) and to a lesser extent honey, milk, and wool.
7.05     The internal rate of return to the economy (ERR) has been calculated
on the basis of the anticipated yields and farmers' costs of production per
hectare under improved cultivation practices or per animal benefitting from
vaccines or full package (Annex 3, C14). No quantified benefits have been
estimated for the provision of additional water supply facilities, nor for the
seed potato and the artificial insemination components. The costs of roads
were attributed to agriculture. The following assumptions underlie the rate
of return calculations:
(a)  All benefits and costs were calculated using constant mid-1981
prices, adjusted to represent benefits or costs at the farm or plant
level as appropriate.  Benefits and costs were adjusted for all
apparent transfer payments such as taxes, duties, tariffs and
subsidies;
(b)  Border prices of tradeable outputs were derived from the Bank';
commodity price forecasts (grains, sugar beet, beef and muttonl or in
their absence (for pulses, fruits and vegetables) from recent '7EC
export prices, and were adjusted for grade differentials and for
local handling and transportation costs back to the farmgate. These
prices reflect the projected long-term price increases for grains and
mutton, the decrease for sugar, and the low point of the beef cycle
in the mid-1980s; all other prices were held constant during the
project life. Economic prices of non-tradeable outputs such as hay,
straw, honey and milk were derived from financial prices by applying
the conversion factor for consumption goods (0.86), and were held
constant during the project life;



- 48 -
(c) All imported inputs and locally procured tradeable inputs such as
fertilizers, chemicals, seeds, vaccines, drugs and fuel were valued
at their estimated 1981 border price. The shadow wage rate for
incremental farm labor was estimated at TL 600 per man-day, which
accounts for the existing employment pattern whereby the daily wage
for a semi-skilled farm worker averages TL 700 per day for land
preparation or can be as high as TL 1,200 at harvest time, although
unemployment prevails part of the year. All other local costs,
corresponding to 1981 domestic prices of non-tradeable goods and
services, were adjusted by the standard conversion factor (estimated
at 0.80) to translate them into border prices;
(d) All incremental production and farm inputs utilization were phased in
on the basis of the anticipated build-up of the areas cultivated with
improved practices and of the number of livestock benefitting from
vaccines and from the full package (Annex 3, C12). In both cases,
the yields and the farmers' costs per hectare or per animal with
improvement were also assumed to increase progressively with the same
pattern as shown in the farm models (para. 6.10). Costs of training
and studies, establishment of field offices and laboratories,
construction of roads and irrigation works, procurement of vehicles
and equipment were phased in according to the implementation
schedules and investment tables, as was also done for the milk
collection centers and the honey packaging units; and
(e)  A project life of 25 years was assumed.  Investment items were
replaced regularly when necessary at the end of their respective
useful life; however, no salvage value has been imputed in year 25
for such items because of the small amounts involved and their
negligible impact on results using discounting techniques. The
incremental costs for agricultural services (extension and plant
protection) were progressively decreased between years 5 and 10 and
phased out by year 11, when it is anticipated that these services
would contribute to further extension of improved practices outside
of the Project area, while farmers benefitting from the project
itself would be sufficiently trained and could thereafter rely upon
extension services staffed at TZ's present staffing levels. The
incremental costs of the livestock services were continued throughout
the project life. The without project situation was considered to be
equivalent to the present situation, and foregone crop sales from the            w
pre-project situation were deducted throughout the project life.
7.06     Based on these criteria and on the data shown in Table 7.1, the basic
ERR of the project is estimated to be 14.2%. The switching values (percentage
change required in benefits or total project costs to reduce the ERR of the
project to the opportunity cost of capital, assumed to be 10%) are -10.5% for
benefits and +11.7% for costs (details and plots in Annex 3, C14). If costs
of strictly social infrastructure are introduced, viz. the water supply
component, for which no economic benefit can be quantified, the ERR falls to
11.8%.



T.bl. 7.1: E08D09IC MNALYSIS
YEAR          9182       199        1984       198        1989       19"7       092        1929       1990       1999       I999       1993       199        1995       1999        19I        Me9        1999       2*0        2001        2002       2003       204        2005        2008
189190                  -4.77      -0.79      15S0       94.72      96.96     190.15     M95,9      419.48    5S4.7       008.29     977.48     705.51      705.20    740.45     743.07      744.1?     744,12     744.02'    744.12      744.12     744.10     744.12     044.02 .    744.12     744.12
PULSES MD 7T00R         25.92      65297     114.82     506.55     154,44     443.70     252,42     648.03     978.49     730.95     7.85,8     73.816      789.26    091.99     791.96      790.69     591.66     791.16     799.66      791.69     799.46     700.6      79l.66      791.66     79.1.6
*097178.718             16.46      51.50      94.85     159.00     200.25     502.43     365.94     416.l9     459,99     400.14    500961      529,89     559.56     5258.8      550,44     529.49    5MR.44      529.44     559.44      559.44     529.49     559.44     529.44     229.44      529.44
93801E2                 21.74      56.44     152.1      237,92     455,54     630.41     779.30     301.18     935.73     909.55     964.76     951.58      922.86    892.32      65.70      852.95     430.5      850.39     850.51      420.39     850.39     4.30.      830.51      058.31     95.31
98EAY                   15,84      45.79      97.15     146.46     299,69     500.04     591.98     44.36      692.93     700.48      765,05     8125.1    895.95     902.46      V424,4     965.63     967.73     9917.5     99.6   97.73     967.73     9      97.71 WM    7.2  97.73           997fi.75
9080                     0.85       8,.17     19,991     56.50      37,99      48.42      35.89      85.7       69.-       75.74      3.14        4.96      3.3        92.08      94.48       99.02      99.24      96.5       96.281      99.581     44.28      99.20      99.28      96.58       99.59
VW0                      0.9        0.20       945        0.3        148        5.50       5.00       3.59       9.48       3.92       5.93       9.09       9.66       9.97       7,95        7.20       7.50       7.39       7.59        7,21       9.59       7.50       7.51        7.50      5.20
963*                     9.70      79.23      I9,0       go.20     948,27     072        984.31     097.39     99.29      997.29      197.58     997.39     097.39    197.58      997.20     097.29     097.29     02.8       1.5        47.8         9.9       07.8        9.0        0729        9.9
0816489 69100  0.00  7.00  0.00  0.00  790.20  178.99  0,00  0,09  2.00  9.00       2.00        0.00      0.00       9.00        9.00       0.89       0.00       9.40        8.00       0.00       9.00       8.00       8.00        1.98       5.00.0  O.Ob  ."  0.00  .00  0,4
7508. INC  8891710        82,87     247.30     52.3.1     29.977    01846.72    2256.53    2592.91    5496.2    3049.6    5777.94    0995.58    4897.05    4927.85    4998.45    4077.74    4984.20    9983.94      48.4       48.4        48.9       454         039        054        159        959
199459 costs
797 3200 VA199R         54.81     105.53     150.9      295.23       9029     255.00     197.56     199.92     14.5       0s.o93                  00           .         .0        00           .0        20         50           .0        00          .0        88          .0        08           .
088500 5199  8.49 13.79  09,34  16.89  06,89      16,89      09.89      06.69      04.89      36.89      98.99      06.49      26.89      96.89 14.89796.89                 99.89      06.29       19.89      06.89      oa.89      39.89      19.89      99.89       06.8
ON 948 MD 8118013       55.5      050.59     285.31     485.90     728,48    1012.05    1333.95    095.8      0997.7     59426.57    2M5,97    0429.51    0499.93    7594.34    5524.20    257.46    23274"4    557.404    552744    2527.4         557.44    5527.#44    23744    2552.4        527
19926078007MW  40.16  47.40  67.50  43.58  002.98  099.98  924.99  908.90  995.98  155.98  985.60   905.98     085.98     083.69     983.94     085.68      805.68     994,98     995.980 D0  t -$.904.98.004.99.   985.68     998,98     905.98     183.946
990.917900RE             4.991     41.94       49         4.94  4     ,3        9.         800        249        9.02.0                 .0400    .  9.3                 2.3        8.00        0.3        8.00       8.48         .3Q5`O  14  8.00     9.00       4.89       9.00       8.00        0.00
0671204067 10000~~~~~~~~~:3                                                                                                                                                                                                        00          -0
117EC804AMIN           58,0       590.            e         99400 08.3 175 375  04.33     29.9        53.       5.9        09.29       5.00       8.0        9.00       0.00       2.         0.0         0.3        8.0"0      2.00        80          .0        90          .          .0         50
190072  510             2,02     3.05.4       82 5466  0.47      l0.7       (3.53    4i.37         9M.42    223.24      23.09         5.93     255.71      51.43       0.860   86. 05         7.60,      6.003      549         5.70       2.63    14.00       6m.55    8s.57           3.009   26.93
ON 749 AND 28E47TE      75S.15    166.98     358.89     410.32    584,24        0.00       4.33       5.24       5.00       O."9      09.08      23.99       40.09     31.43      58.9         0.48       0.30       4.3         4.85       5.84      24.75       5.94      35.32       96.39      53.03
29104370000U09        1679.54    9009.04     494.27     535.89     021.89       0.   0.0 0      0.3  .9          8.34       0.00       9.3      462.84       9.00       8.3"        .   0.0   40          6.30       8.48       9.03       8.30        4.4"     6.4                0.3   4     .00 83
"20CT 8314N             19.62      30.54      53.92      25.47      94,94       2.00       9.30       9.90       8,00       3.00       2.89       0.3        0.00       8.00       9.30        9.3        0.00       2.4        9.89        93         80 .0                 8.00       9.006 :,O   2.3
0890078             2097.44    1252.57    1047.67    15.0        54so 77.04  97.89     29.69      38.3       59,00      95.49       25.08     693.46      45.59      52.89      6.39        7.44        6.00       3.4        8.55       7.45      26.45      498.23      45.59      49.84      58.02
707AL ICR COSTS         5279,46    064.60    9375.s      0945.5     9000.99    0593.40    1684.96     9M.99     33.3       5449.74    5249,26    3443.14    5687,5    5490.92    2005.80    763.36    263.89    5655.2    563.48    265.58    2679.95    3848.06    5693.52             28.79    279.00
2009 NET 998.909       -20.5    -139.1       -050.03   -I5.7l        -5.8       852         4.5       876        326       0358.5     94.4.5     085.93    9499.0      9475       9484.74    0056.9      1339.90      M155.6   95.481365              9587.      005.94    049.4    I0489.15    14177.9
S   -14.533



- 50 -
7.07     Since yields and price expectations are reasonable, a decrease in
benefits is most likely to occur only if the rate of acceptance of the new
technical packages by the farmers is lower than anticipated, and would thus
correspond to a similar decrease in production costs. A sensitivity analysis
on the entire project excluding the water supply component shows that a
decrease of 12% in benefits or an 18% increase in on-farm production costs is
necessary to bring the ERR down to 10%. A delay of 1 year in both benefits
and on-farm production costs brings the ERR down to 12.3% and a delay of 2
years to 10.7%. This, coupled with other benefits not reflected in the ERR,
makes the economic risk acceptable.
C. Other Benefits
7.08     The project will improve the general conditions of rural life in the
province to a larger extent than is simply reflected in increased incomes and
employment opportunities. The upgrading of the rural roads network will make
social services more readily available as well as improve access to markets
and financial services. The provision of additional water supply facilities
will have an impact on health standards by reducing the incidence of
water-borne and water related diseases. The incremental milk production of
over 3,150 tons annually at full development will provide milk for the
equivalent of an additional 36,000 people at the present level of per capita
national consumption of milk and dairy products (87.6 kg of milk equivalent);
more important, the incremental annual carcass production of some 3,280 tons
at full development will provide meat for the equivalent of an additional
119,000 people at the present level of per capita national consumption
(17.9 kg of meat, equivalent to approximately 27.5 kg of carcass) or permit
equivalent exports.
7.09     The agricultural practices fostered by the project will result in a
more intensive use of the land resource, as well as in an ecologically safer
one.  In the medium- and long-term, the increased fodder production will allow
a longer indoors winter-feeding period, and hence permit the natural pastures
to thrive before animals are set out to graze.
7.10     Through studies, trials and demonstrations, the project will adapt
and develop mixed-farming techniques appropriate to the semi-arid areas of
Eastern Anatolia. Such improved techniques will be replicable in other parts
of this region. Similarly, a number of pilot components (control of
parasitism, artificial insemination, rangeland management, MCCs) will allow               V
further improvements in and outside of the project area through the experience
gained under the project.
7.11     On the institutional side, the project will foster a reorientation of
the extension services towards adoption of a multipurpose T&V approach suited
to the needs of mixed farming. The veterinary services will be reoriented
away from the sole concern about controlling disease outbreaks towards a
broader concern for all the interrelated aspects of animal husbandry including
preventative health measures, feedin;g and herd management. The considerable
devolution of authority from the heads of MAF's general directorates in Ankara
to the new provincial director of agriculture, will facilitate the joint
programming of annual activities, and help to ensure that the operational



- 51 -
content of these programs is addressed directly to the local agricultural
situation and its problems. The experience gained would also guide MAF in
implementing its decentralization in other provinces, including those to be
covered under the proposed Regional Extension Projects. The decentralization
of executive authority for project implementation, by placing the project
office under the provincial governor, and the streamlining of executive
authority in Ankara through use of a steering committee, are innovations which
should contribute to the design of rural development programs for other
provinces of Turkey.
D.  Project Risks
7.12     There are no unusual technical risks associated with the projecit, and
those normally associated with the project benefits, costs, development period
and implementation delays have been evaluated in the sensitivity analyses.
There is an organizational risk, however, which is inherent in the necessary
interdependency of the various components, should the expected degree of
cooperation amongst the participating agencies not materialize. This applies
equally to the agencies within MAF, which have not been overly cooperative in
the past, and between MAF's agencies and the other services including TCZB.
The anticipated level of cooperation in the proposed project stems from imajor
policy changes already introduced by the present Government and those
currently under review. Although major changes in Government, a reversion to
old policies, or prolonged delay in establishing the institutional
requirements of the project are not expected, such could significantly impair
its viability. To guard against this possibility, the Government was urged to
establish the project organization quickly, which it has done, while
appointment of a suitable project manager has been made a condition of loan
effectiveness (paras. 5.04, 5.08). These will be backstopped by appropriate
protocols amongst the participating agencies which have been signed to define
their mutual responsibilities in the project (paras. 5.07, 5.10, 5.17).
7.13     Three risks which could affect project viability and which other
Bank-assisted projects in Turkey have faced in recent years are (a) inadequate
local budgetary support, (b) delays in appointing international specialists,
and (c) MAF's difficulties in attracting sufficient numbers of qualified local
staff in hardship areas such as Erzurum province. The first risk is a serious
one in the present economic climate of Turkey, and is likely to continue until
economic recovery is well underway. To minimize this risk and guarantee the
reliable operation of the extension and livestock services in the project and
timely inception of project works, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the necessary budget will be provided on time and tha: the
Government will, by March 1st of each year during the implementation period,
satisfy the Bank on this matter (para. 4.44). In regard to the second risk,
the Government has agreed that all consultants would be recruited before
September 15, 1982, with the exception of the specialist for disease
epidemiology who would commence his service during the second year of the
project (para. 4.36). With respect to staff, the MAF has recently initiated a
rigorous recruiting drive among Turkey's numerous agricultural school
graduates to increase the staff of its extension and livestock services.
Response has been good, and MAF has been able to impose a requirement of four
years mandatory service in Turkey's eastern provinces for all new middle and



- 52 -
lower level staff, which should also benefit the proposed project. During
negotiations, the Government further agreed to provide staff incentives for
hardship service to be separately identified in the budgetary allocations, and
to facilitate access to housing for staff until staff housing, to be
constructed under the project, is ready for occupancy (para. 4.44).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to in
Chapters IV and V, and subject to the conditions of loan effectiveness
referred to in paras. 4.35, 4.42 and 4.43, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$40.0 million to the Government of Turkey for a term of 17 years at
11.6% interest per annum with a grace period of 4 years.



TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures/l
(US$ 000)
Item                                              Base Costs                                      Total                      %
1982      1983        1984      1985       1986           L          F          T         Foreign
Machinery & heavy equipment             21.16       4.69       3.18       3.61       4.96         9.15      28.46      37.61         75.7
Vehicles                                 0.45       0.52       0.65       0.68       0.59         1.29        1.60       2.89        55.4
Survey, field, laboratory
& other equipment                       1.12       0.87       1.02       1.23       1.26         3.70       1.79        5.49        32.6
Chemicals, vaccines, drugs,
material & supplies                     0.51       1.63       2.47       3.32       3.55         4.63       6.90       11.53        59.9
Civil works                              5.50       9.98       8.92       7.97       1.25        25.58       8.05      33.63        *23.9
Livestock purchases                      -          0.02       0.02       0.03       0.04         0.11       -          0.11          0.0
Training & studies                       0.07       0.13       0.18       0.15       0.13         0.32       0.34        0.66        51.4
Consultants                              0.20       0.30       0.07       0.07       0.01         0.08       0.56        0.64        87.2
Personnel                                2.01       2.25       2.44       2.61       2.22         -          -         11.53          0.0
Fuel & maintenance                       0.11       0.25       0.39       0.56       0.65         -          -           1.96         0.0
Other & miscellaneous                    0.28       0.32       0.32       0.32       0.17         1.36        0.06       1.42         4.1
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    31.40      20.97      19.66      20.61      14.84        59.71      47.77    107.48          44.4
Physical contingencies                 0.39       0.90       0.82       0.74       0.15         2.11       0.90       3.01         30.0
Price contingencies                    2.83       3.94       5.34       7.69       6.75        15.06      11.49      26.55        43.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     34.63      25.81      25.82      29.04      21.74        76.88      60.16    137.04          43.9
Of which:
Taxes                                  2.55       0.59       0.65       0.71       0.34         4.84       -          4.84
Foreign exchange                      17.52      10.45       9.60      11.67      10.92         -         60.16      60.16
/1   Table contains rounding errors.
October 1981



-54                                                       ANNEX 2
TURKREY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed  Project Cost Estimte
(TL Million)                     (USt '000)                Z of
- --------------- ---- ------------------------------- Foreign  Z of Total
Local   Foreign   Total        Local    Foreisr      Total      Exchange Base Costs
A. AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
EXTENSION SERVICE                               1,596.0    306.8   1,902.8  15,959.7   3.068.3    19,028.0           16.1        17.7
PLANT PROTECTION                                   53.8      60.4      114.2      537.7      604.2      1,141.9      52.9         1.1
SEED POTATO PROJECT                                80.4      18.2       98.6      803.9      182.0        985.9      18.5         0.9
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                     1730.1.  385.4   2,115.6  176301.2   3,854.5    21,155.7            18.2        19,7
B. ANIMAL HEALTH I BREEDING SERVICES
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES                            173.9    170.9       344.B   19739.0   1,709.1        3,448.1      49.6         3.2
REGIONAL JET LAB                                   21.0       2.0       23.0      209.7       20.3        229.9       B.B         0.2
AI-CATTLE                                           18.0      6.4       24.5      180.1       64.5        244.5      26.4         0.2
Al-SHEEP                                           23.,7      4.7       28.3      236.6       46.6        2B3.3      16.5         0.3
ANIMAL SCIENCE INV. AND DEMON.                      21.:2     2.6       23.8      212.1       25.5        237.6      10.7         0.2
Sub-Total ANIMAL HEALTH I BREEDING SERVICES           257.7    186.6      444.3   2,577.5   1,865.9        4p443.4      42.0         4,1
c. INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION CREDIT
i. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
..._ -     _ -- -- - -- -- -
FARIM IMPLEMENTS I MACHINERY                   213.2  1,106.4   1,319.6   2Y132.0  11,064.0    13,196.0           83.8        12.3
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                            191 7    301.0      492.7   1,916.8  32009.9         4i926,7      61,1         4.6
ANIMAL FEED                                     28.7      12.3       41.0      286.7      122.9        409.6      30.0         0.4
BARN REHABILITATION                             20.2       5.0       25.2      201.6       50.4        252.0      20.0         0.2
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL CREDIT                     453.7  1,424.7   1,078.4   4,537.1  14,247.1    18,784.3           75.8        17.5
2. CREDIT FOR APICULTURE
BEEKEEPING OPERATIONS                          319.6    137.0       456.5   3,195,5   1,369.5        4i565.1      30.0         4.2
HONEY PACKAGING UNIT                            74.9      30.4      105.3      749.0      304.1      1,053.1      28.9         1.0
Sub-Total CREDIT FOR APICULTURE                   394.4    167.4       561.8   3t944.5   1.673.6        5,618.1      29.8         5.2
3. MiLK COLLECTION CENTERS
M.LK COLLECTION CENTERS                         79.2      63.6      142.9      792.4      636.5      1,428.9      44.5         1.3
Sub-Total INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION CREDIT            927.4  1655.7   2,583.1   9,274.0  16,557.3    25.B31.2          64.1        24.0
D. RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
IRRIGATION AND -SOIL CONSERVATION               1D121.3    571.9   19693.2  11,213.0   5.718.5    16,931.5           33,B        15.8
RURAL ROADS                                     1,055.5  1,330.6   2s386.1  10,555.1  13,306.2    23,B61.3           55.8        22.2
VILLAGE JATER SUPPLY                              008.5    553,4   1,361.9   8,084.8   5.534,1    13,618.9           40.6        12.7
Sub-Total RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                     2.7B5.3  2,455.9   5t441.2  29,852.9  24,558.8    54,411.7           45.1        50.6
E. :ROJECT MANAGEMENT
PROJECT GFF.CEiN    4 E                             42.9       2.8      45.7      426.7       28.0        456.7       6.1         0,4
SP'CIhLiST EXPERTISE                                 8.2     56.2       64.4       12.3      562.0        644.3      07.2         0.6
Sub-Tutal PROJECT MANAGEMENT                           51.1      59.0     110.1      511,0      590.0      1,101.0      53,6         1,0
F. TRAINING
LXTENSION TRAiNING                                  13.0      17.3      30.3      130.3      172.8        303,1      57.0         0.3
LIVESTOCK SERVICES TThiN.NG                          1.3      7,9        9.2       12.9       78.S         91.7      05.9         0.1
RCRAL :NFRAS'RUCTURE TRAINING                        5,7      B.7       14.4       57.0       17.0        144.0      60.4         0.i
uuE< 3Wte  T'h.NiNv                                    20.0      33,9      53.9      200.2      338.6        538.8      62.8         0.15
Tcte; SAvE.;NCE OST-                                  5,Y71.7  4,776,5  11,74S.2  59,716.,  4'.vu   107,401.8             44.4       lGO.C
mu:^._                                              -;s c aes  0.C.  9.2. .... 2j C1.O   2.:0    .   )    3,50;30. u.6
9  -:e Cv,t. s;e:es7                                                                                                   -*5^v-' -------  ---------  -----    .-47-  ;.  --------   4.-
20t:E                                                 7,608,4  6,01,2  103,704.6  76O8            l -2,4   137,045.9      43.9       227,s



- 55 -
Annex 3
Page 1
TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Materials Available in Project File
A.   SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO THE SECTOR OR THE SUBSECTOR
Al.  IBRD, Turkey Agricultural Sector Survey
Report No. 1684-TU, June 23, 1978
A2.  IBRD, "Shadow Prices for Project Appraisal in Turkey",
Staff Working Paper No. 392, May 1980
A3.  IBRD, Turkey - Public Sector Investment Review
Report No. 3472-TU, draft green cover, July 14, 1981
A4.  IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Development:  Problems and Opportunities
Report No. 3178a-TU, May 7, 1981
A5.  IBRD, Turkey - Industrialization and Trade Strategy
Report No. 3641-TU, draft yellow cover, October 2, 1981
A6.  Census of Population by Administrative Division; 1975, State Institute
of Statistics, Ankara, 1977
A7.  Census of Population - Summary Statistics: 1980, State Institute of
Statistics, Ankara
A8.  Income Distribution and Consumption Expenditures in Rural Areas:
1973-1974, State Institute of Statistics, Ankara
A9.  Prof. Dr. Orhan Koksal; Nutrition in Turkey, Hacettepe University,
Ankara, 1977
AIO. Rural Employment Survey: 1973-1974, State Institute of Statistics,
Ankara
All. Census of Agriculture - Summary Results; 1980, State Institute of
Statistics, Ankara
A12. Agricultural Structure and Production, State Institute of Statistics,
Ankara
(i) 1974-1976, (ii) 1975-1977, (iii) 1976-1978, (iv) 1979
A13. Prices Received by Farmers, State Institute of Statistics, Ankara
(i) 1973-1976, (ii) 1977, (iii) 1978, (iv) 1979
A14. The Summary of Agricultural Statistics: 1978 and 1979, State Institute
of Statistics, Ankara
A15. Rural Area Consumer Price Indexes: 1980 (in Turkish), State Institute
of Statistics, Ankara
A16. Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, State Institute of Statistics, Ankara
(i) August-December 1980, (ii) January-March 1981



- 56 -
Annex 3
Page 2
B.   SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO THE PROJECT
B1.  IBRD, Turkey - Appraisal of the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project
Report No. 699a-TU, May 19, 1975
B2.  IBRD, Turkey - Fourth livestock Development Project - SAR
Report No. 1933a-TU, May 12, 1978
B3.  Census of Population by Administrative Division:  1980 - Preliminary
Results for Erzurum Province, State Institute of Statistics,
Ankara, 1981
B4.  Census of Population:  1975 - Social and Economic Characteristics of
Population of Erzurum Province, State Institute of Statistics,
Ankara, 1975
B5.  "Socioeconomic Survey of Erzurum Province", Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Livestock, Ankara, 1978
B6.  "Land Use and Land Classification Survey of Erzurum Province"
(in Turkish), TOPRAKSU, Ankara, 1978
B7.  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Draft Report of the Turkey Erzurum
Rural Development Project, Report No. 33/77 TUR 21, August 24, 1977
B8.  General Directorate of Planning, Research and Coordination, Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Livestock, Preparation Report for the Erzurum
Integrated Rural Development Project, 1978
B9.  State Planning Organization, Preparation Report for the Erzurum
Integrated Rural Development Project, 1980
BIO. Preparation Mission Consultants Report;  "Health Component",
by Peter N. Kessler, M.D., October 1978
C.   SELECTED WORKING PAPERS
Cl.  Terms of Reference for Consultants
C2.  Draft Protocols
C3.  The Project Area
C4.  Agricultural Services
C5.  Animal Health and Breeding Services
C6.  Infrastructure
C7.  Credit and Financial Intermediation
C8.  Project Management, Training and Staffing
C9.  Cost Estimates and Expenditures Schedule
CIO. Procurement and Disbursement
Cll. Organization and Implementationi
C12. Production, Utilization of rnputs, Farm and Financial Models
C13. Financial Analysis, Marketing and Prices
C14. Economic Analysis
C15. Poverty Level and Employment Opportunities
C16. Miscellaneous



TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule11
1982          1983           1984          1986           1986           1987
Laild Appropriation for Offices, Houses
Tendering and Contract Award
Office and House Construction
Equipment Procurement
Training
In-service, Man/Days/Year                                   800          2,100          3,000         4,500          5,400
External, Man/Months/Year                                      9            35             41            26             15
Extension Units, Cumulative
F'roject Area                                                  4            12             21            30             34
Other Areas                                                    1             4              8             17 
350          1,100         2,000          3,000         3.600
Contact Farmers, Cumulative
lrnproved Cultural Practices
3            10             23            42             68
'000 ha, Cumulative
TCZB Credit
Short-term, Annual Incremental ($'millionl                     2             8            1.1            1.6           1.6
Med. and Longterm (S'million)                                1 0            2.3           4.4            5.4           7.4
Livestock Vaccinations, '000 per year
Cattle                                                        19            26             36            43             46
Sheep                                                        140           160            260           330            385
Livestock Improvement Full Package,'000 per year
Cattle                                                       0 8           2.8            6.8           144           '25.6
Sheep                                                        2.8           9 8           23 8           50.4          139.6
Artificial Inseminations, '000 per year
Cattle                                                                0.5            1.9            2.7           3.2
Sheep                                                                      4             8             13             13
2000          4 000         6,000          8,000         10.000
Irrigation Land In-service, ha, Cumulative                  -                                                   -
260           520            780          1,040         1,300
Soil Conservation Schemes Completed, in ha. Cumulative      -
33            314           515            804
Rural Roads In-service, Cumulative, Km
21            57             92            142
Village Water Supplies, No. of Units Completed
New Milk Collection Centers Completed, Cumulative                       -
35            47            62             82             9.5
Bee-hives Distributed, 000/year                                                                      -
Honey Packing Houses, Cumulative Completed                                             12
Reporting: Semiannual Reports                                            _      _          _   _      _
Audit Reports                                                             _             _              -            __              _
1/ Implementation targets of Agricultural Components based on agricultural year: October-October.
World Bank-23289



TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGAINIZATION CHART
Projeclt Implementation Management
K             Prine Mini-try 
I .............. ......................
Miritr  f              Mitry                                     n M n .ir   ..........                         ...
Financaeomec                                                   Interio        .V.A
I   .a    I                                                                                                       _                                   Z
) l   I   0                     _            _              l                  Agricultural         Plant             Vet.            Al and            I-
fI...........  TCZBZ  .1                                      3  .........    TOPRAKSU            YSE          ...       Affairs         Protection         Services         Breeding   |t
IGAAI          IGOPPQI           DGVI             (GDANB)
r TCZ7BZ   |'   .                                             lon1|T Prkece   l       Y  E       l           
Regional        .         ..(..*          of                RRegeoal              Regional
OfR c n     .         .               Ereu"rum            Di retorate           Directorate
Provinciasll                                       I :_ _
Coordinating|_                                      |
Committee-                                           L
Prolect
Ataturk   ,,W,,,|    Offie .                  oo l Pae
Za .  Pnrov..........r...
|  | Consultants  |   |    Directorate                                                            of
Bh             .ran .................... I ,                tLAi...  ..                .        . .... C            i-etoek                           LN
Zf f.                                                                                f                            S_rvices                               ices
Farm and                r late                                                          C                  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cnr1ad>
P inanoing   |Sn  ConsevgI                                                         adVlae         |        7eso   n      E Cnd    v sof         sa|Pveste   | |T    u
t    Plans    |fL>roiect                                             sJ  |  WaterSystems  |         Doemonstrations1 |             ant |       Anjrnal
*Permanent Members:                 *Permanent Members:                                           Operational Control
Chair-SPO                           Chair,-Govrnor                                  -         -  Administrative/Technical
MAF                                  Project Manager                                .......... Coordination
Min. Finance                         Directorof Agriculture
Mi. Interior                        TOPRAKSU Regional
TOPRAKSU                             YSE Regional
YSE                                 TCZB Regional
TCZB                                 TSEK, EBK, TMO, SEKER,
Governor of Er-urnm                  YEM. TYT, TZDK
Yvorld B3ank-23290



TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop and Livestock Calendar
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.
Wheat, Autumn Sown                    mss  esesss  a_          _      _                    _                                 ies
Wheat, Spring Sown                                       w
Barley, Spring Sown                                                   -              -       -
Sugarbeets, Spring Sown                                               -    -         -    -
Potatoes, Spring Sown                         _                              -       - _
Sainfoin, Spring Sown                Iss is asss             mss i        -                  _      _     s      eeeee rssese
Alfalfa, Spring Sown                 ...1  1311  IlU    huh   3m                     _                    uausu i*ii*   Emil.
Cattle, Stable Feeding                  _l _                 es
Sheep, Stable Feeding                               _s    ilil esslii       
Fallow Grazing
Stubble Grazing
Low Altitude Range Grazing
High Altitude Range Grazing
Cattle: Mating, Peak Period
Calving, Peak Period
Weaning, Peak Period
Lactation, Peak Period                                             l
Animal Sales, Peak Period
Sheep: Mating, Peak Period
Lambing, Peak Period
Weaning, Peak Period
Lactation, Peak Period
Animal Sales, Peak Period
Legend:
ssssssss Winter Dormancy of crop or partial feeding of animals.
Variation occurs depending on altitudes and weather
variability.
Animal Calendar relates to village livestock.
World Bank-23291



II



v t EzbS'@___ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ ; _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___   _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _                                                 .,e.bED   1Q59
5LOG C             E9            ~                 o $0                                                                                                                                                                 CC ic /  o  " .c.
'/              ~~~~T U R K E Y               zLE  
Es'2                                    1">                                                                                        /      I     dr !      N   
(                       0'    A        ;         1                                                             Xt"g   d   
9 -c.g                \
TUaRKEY<. '                       \)                    _   _   _   /                   \          IYaniLta5  /         \         {o /rorabrvaOl
-I~~~~~~~~~~.d
r r , .   {    gg               \    /                       o- s. _  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~\ E~RUtRAL 1NFRpASLTREUCETURE FACILITIES-
555v0055'.r~~~~~~ s cdofnl , 5 5.lge c5,5,ser  '.'-'."--   __                  /ner
K r                                 A asnbgA .~
13 Oressoos ~* us\, ,_eI auus  _ AslsaIe  fc                  0                                                                                                  -y
N      crl!gz scole rsgto  schem-s
V lo.g- oe  upl  yt
/  .5-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    eglar ~~~~~~ ~~-. -~~~~                                  Goks~~~~~ ~~                            Pron -oe captal
"LOWTHE 0  p  -,p   3~~~~~~~I                                                                                            0 '~"-,         / 40e
MILE; ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     5I                                                                            u .                                       .sro  ocdre



I
l
"I



____________________________________________                                                                                                                                  IBRD    15986~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I RD   598
iiltoSWr~~ ~~~~~~                          s f/        A   we dF;T: a e                                                                                                                                                   IOB 0ER 1981
'S          r          T                                                              R K E Y   1TU R'K'E\
t tf #E >O  a <  ) X  /                                                                                                                  rOr U l sS..-h G 00,
~~TURREP                1~~ikTUKE
b~                       ~          ~            _V                   /                                          .n                                                                     )
*fi F a -tedO {e Proen    e~ v,d                                                            ,, i.  /                 1           .        
r ___       __       __                    ac ';        es]                /                  \P  \/  
Xmen             /       ..r                                                                                                                                                  -     (-         -t-
g  /  _ <    \-- - 'Alrzpi;l_~ -                         t  '~^4an ~ '    /ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\ 5 g   ~     9  ~'    ~     \   -/   ~--Y           7              -1    - |                                                                        .YTbz       oKoor7'   \"' ,.Protect concentratzion aJrease 16t
noSo.bor/b    )   ,    (fn   ,   /\           <?            J   Q      /                 /g - K:                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~livestock development
<>  Tv yotek,,rre    S    D strict centers
O9OtOtt   h".          --rovio-  lbovd-i
r 6 L  / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.d
9                          1,    / '                  ,                                                                                     )Ares  _' Mainro,ads
GE ,o,,.,    \    Topal~avvs  A1kae                      9vF/svkorO     -         Cattle Al obosnoterAtobee-talb- sh-d
!   Cefflikcf  aKucukova   /  \\  1  _  / \ \ _ - \ ,i AnimalheaRheeamstobeestciblished~~Agicvlvra estenin ditrit ceter
to be  -enttrtdl
-  _   _   _   >   A>S15agIl     X      ,     |      /  \            t       -        -      -2x D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IKrapacil\Elhgfclte
*   f      0\      k         Agr-vtil enso- aittd ct-centers-|
/       Meatpacking plant-dalavbghte-hoe
)   X   / G ok.gl                                                                                                                Rg ...R I   .o..ic..lt .rr  ersea -rhcenter
7.7  i         '                       '     1       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W-    Go                      5Q                                              Regioa toil and.dwater res. rc. cete
c-;)'            ~~A                                                      \Ag-Nicltra secodary sh..
0ag/o                                                - j;  -J-                                     > Gaololf4 Goksv  *    Sjgar beet favcrry
Torte,0 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  /        ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~          ~Ag,ivoltoral mah-rer  factoy
A    Atotr  University
S/LOAz;tEE    0                                                    D                                                                              ar5 7 0a,
ctrco  v              lv      7 0                                                                                             - ,



