Document of
The World Bank                     FLE COP Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3198-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Jan. 1980 /_    Oct. 1980    June 30, 1981    Sept. 1, 1981
US Dollar        =    TL 70.0 /2    TL 83.50 /2   TL 100.00 /2             TL 120.00
TL 1             =    US$ 0.014       US$ 0.012       US$ 0.01             US$ 0.008
/1  Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners.  TL 100/$1.00
was used for this report.
/2 Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate was
TL 55/$1.00 in January 1980, TL 70.0/$1.00 from October 1980, and is
TL 85.34/$1.00 from April 15, 1981. The special rate for fertilizers has
now been eliminated.
ABBREVIATIONS
AI         -  Artificial Insemination
DSI        -  State Hydraulic Works
GDAA       -  General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of MAF
GDECR      -  General Directorate of Erosion Control and Reforestation
of MAF
GDFV       -  General Directorate of Forest Village Affairs of MAF
GDANB      -  General Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding and
Record Keeping of MAF
GDPPQ      -  General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine of
MAF
GDVS       -  General Directorate of Veterinary Services of MAF
KOYD       -  Less Developed Regions Department of SPO
MAF        -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MVAC       -  Ministry of Village Affairs and Cooperatives
SEE        -  State Economic Enterprise
SEKER      -  Turkish Sugar Factories, an SEE
SMS        -  Subject Matter Specialists for the Extension Service
SPO        -  State Planning Organization
T&V        -  Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
TCZB       -  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TOPRAKSU  -  Land and Water Development Agency of MVA
TZ         -  Provincial Extension Services Arm of GDAA
VEA        -  Village Extension Agent
YSE        -  Rural Infrastructure General Directorate of MVA
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey        -     March 1 to February 28 /3
TCZB                      -      January 1 to December 31
/3 Turkey is in the process of changing its fiscal year from January 1 to
December 31, commencing in 1983.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;                Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries;           (i) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry;
(ii) Agricultural Bank of Turkey (Turkiye Cumhuriyeti
Ziraat Bankasi - TCZB), (iii) the Ministry of Village
Affairs (MVAC); and (iv) the State Planning
Organization (SPO).
Loan Amount;             US$40 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms and Conditions:   17 years including 4 years grace, with interest at
11.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms;         The Borrower will onlend $14.8 million equivalent to
TCZB, for a similar period, at an interest rate which
will allow TCZB a spread of at least 3.5 percent on
all Bank funds onlent under the project; the Borrower
will assume the foreign exchange risk.
The Project;             The project's major objectives are; (a) to raise
agricultural production, incomes and employment levels
in Erzurum province; and (b) to improve conditions of
rural life. These objectives will be achieved by a
strengthening of the agricultural extension,
veterinary, animal breeding, and plant protection
services, introduction of improved access to credit;
and provision of rural roads and water supply. To
ensure increased agricultural production, the project
will (i) establish an intensive multi-disciplinary
extension service by the addition of 75 percent
additional staff to serve 28,000 farmers; (ii) develop
and demonstrate technical packages for cereals and
forage crops, including improved pasture and range
management practices; (iii) extend irrigation
facilities for about 10,000 hectares and soil
conservation for about 1,300 hectares; (iv) provide
credit for production and investment, including
bee-keeping operations by 1,000 rural households, and
expansion of existing bee-keeping operations by 500
households, 3 honeypackaging and marketing units each
with an annual throughput of 100 tons, improvement of
3 existing milk collection centers and establishment
of 7 new ones.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ti. -
To improve livestock production, the project will:
(i) support improved animal health services with
emphasis on preventive care; (ii) strengthen
veterinary services by the addition of technical and
support staff; (iii) introduce artificial insemination
breeding of cattle and sheep on a pilot scale; (iv)
improve the efficiency of existing artificial
insemination services and add 3 new cattle Artificial
Insemination (AI) teams and 13 new sheep AI schemes.
To improve basic amenities, the project includes the
construction of 94 km of new roads, improvement of 710
km of existing roads and maintenance of 1,459 km of
existing and new roads, and provision of water supply
for 142 villages. It also includes consultancy
services, training, equipment, buildings and vehicles
to carry out the above project activities.
Project Benefits & Risks; The project will benefit about 28,000
families mostly below the poverty level. The direct economic benefits of the
project accrue from increased agricultural and livestock production valued at
about $83 million in 1981 prices. In addition, it will create some 4,500
man-years of incremental employment, helping small farmers to be more fully
employed. Besides, improved communications and water supply will yield
unquantified additional benefits. The project will also initiate a much
needed reorganization of the agricultural extension service to make it
effective and responsive to farmers' needs. Its institutional arrangements
could be replicated to foster agricultural and rural development in other
parts of Turkey.
There are no unusual technical risks in the project. The major risks
are possible delays in project implementation arising from inadequate
budgetary support, difficulties in attracting sufficient numbers of qualified
staff, including recruitment of consultants and inadequate coordination among
participating agencies. With the measures proposed to minimize them, these
risks are acceptable.



- iii-
Project Cost;
Local      Foreign    Total
--------US$ Million---------
Agriculture Services                            17.3        3.8         21.1
Animal Health and Breeding Services             2.6         1.9          4.5
Investment and Production Credit                9,3        16.6         25.9
Rural Infrastructure                           29.8        24.6         54.4
Project Management, including
Consultants and Studies                       0.5         0.6          1.1
Training                                         0.2        0.3          0.5
59.7       47.8        107.5
Physical Contingencies                           2.1        0.9           3.0
Price Contingencies                             15.2       11.3         26.5
Total Project Cost                         77.0        60.0        137.0
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
Bank                                                       40.0         40.0
International Fund for Agricul-
tural Development (IFAD)                      -          20.0         20.0
TCZB                                            7.4         -            7.4
Sub-borrowers                                   4.9         -            4.9
Government                                     64.7         -           64.7
77.0       60.0        137.0
Disbursement;
Bank FY           1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual             7.8    8.5    6.2    7.2    7.4   2.9
Cumulative         7.8   16.3   22.5   29.7   37.1  40.0
Economic Rate of Return:            About 14 percent
Appraisal Report;  No. 3671 - TU dated January 26, 1982






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$40 million to help finance
the Borrower's program for rural development in Erzurum province. The loan
would have a term of 17 years including 4 years grace, with interest at the
prevailing rate. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
has agreed to co-finance the project with a loan of US$20 million equivalent.
The equivalent of USt22.2 million out of the Bank and the IFAD loans would be
onlent to the Agricultural Bank for Turkey (TCZB) for 17 years, including 4
years of grace, at an interest rate which would leave TCZB with a spread of at
least 3.5 percent on funds it will onlend under the project to its
sub-borrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Turkey. Policies and Prospects
for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU) and the Postscript thereto, were distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1979 and March 1980 respectively. Updating of
economic prospects as well as indepth economic analysis and dialogue has since
been undertaken through the continuing work on structural adjustment loans
(SALs) to Turkey, and two special economic missions. The report of the
special economic mission in November/December 1980 to evaluate the investment
program and entitled "Turkey. Public Sector Investment Review" (No. 3472-TU)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1981. The draft report
of another special economic mission in May/June 1981, to review Turkey's
industrialization and trade strategy, has been recently discussed with the
Government and is expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors
shortly. Its analysis is also reflected in this Part. Annex I-A and I-B
contain the Basic Country Data and relevant details about recent economic
developments.
Characteristics and Development Constraints
3.       Turkey is a country about as big as France and Germany combined, with
an estimated GNP per capita of $1,460 in 1980. With a population of around 45
million, the density is low (78 per square kilometer of agricultural land),
although the rate of urbanization is high (about 45 percent). Educational
enrollments have expanded greatly, but the rate of adult literacy remains
relatively low (60 percent). Although population growth is not high by
middle-income country standards (2.2 percent per annum), the employment
situation has deteriorated steadily, with an unemployment rate of about 16
percent, despite rapid economic growth, and substantial emigration of workers
to Western Europe in the early 1970s and more recent flow of workers to the
Middle East. There is little or no absolute poverty, but income distribution
is still relatively skewed. Data for more recent periods is incomplete, but
indicates a worsening especially of the position of wage and salary earners
over the last few years with a sharp real decline in the minimum wage. There
are also considerable regional differences, and large rural-urban disparities.
1/ This part is identical to Part I of the President Report on the
Export-Oriented Industries Project (P-3199-TU) dated January 29, 1982



- 2 -
4.       Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy. It
contributes 23 percent of GDP (1980), employs about 55 percent of the labor
force, and provides about half of merchandise exports. Turkey is one of the
very few developing countries which is self-sufficient in food. Yet,
agriculture has been given a secondary role compared to industry in the
development strategy. The main sector objectives have been to: (a) expand
food supply for a growing population; and (b) provide exports to finance
industrial development. Turkish agriculture is dualistic; a modern irrigated
commercial sector using modern inputs in coastal areas, produces cash crops
and most exports; traditional rainfed agriculture emphasizing grains and
livestock, is practised on the Anatolian plateau where only a small part of
the irrigation potential has been developed, despite massive investments
through slowly implemented and long-gestating projects.
5.       With its natural and human resources, Turkey has considerable
potential for expanding agricultural production and exports. The major
constraints on growth and productivity are: (a) limited development of
irrigation/drainage facilities and poor utilization of what has been
developed; (b) small and fragmented farm holdings; (c) inadequately funded and
poorly coordinated research and extension services; (d) insufficient
availability of credit; and (e) inadequate marketing arrangements, especially
for exports. Increased productivity could be realized with a somewhat larger
and more efficient allocation of investments, backed by more coherent credit
and price policies and support services.
6.       Reflecting the heavy emphasis of the development strategy on rapid
industrialization, industry has absorbed up to 30 percent of total
investment. Consequently, it today accounts for 19 percent of GDP, 48 percent
of exports (mainly textiles, processed foods and leather products), but only
14 percent of employment. The private sector is overwhelmingly dominant in
exports, and accounts for some 60 percent of value-added and an even higher
.share of employment. Industrial policy has sought to achieve self-sufficiency
through import substitution, use of advanced technology and greater depth of
integration in productive processes, with consequent priority for
capital-intensive investments in basic and intermediate products. Exports
have generally been given a secondary role, and accounted for only about 4
percent of sector output in 1979. The principal policy instruments used have
been large public investments in inefficient State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs), and generous incentives combined with high levels of protection for
private investments. These policies yielded high growth rates, domestic
production of some key basic and intermediate goods based on domestic
resources, adoption of modern technology, a skilled labor force, as well as
some dispersal of industries to less developed regions. But they also
resulted in the establishment of a number of uncompetitive industries,
wasteful of scarce capital and too dependent on imported inputs, with low
employment and limited export possibilities.
7.       The major sector constraints which the Government is now attempting
to overcome, are: (a) low levels of capacity utilization; (b) limited export
capability in some subsectors; (c) inefficiency of the manufacturing SEEs;
(d) lack of sufficient long-term financing for industry; and (e) excessive
dependence on imported inputs and low productivity. Apart from import
protection, several factors have adversely affected productivity, of which a
marginal research and develonment effort and inadequate labor training are of
particular importance. Export efforts have also been hampered by the
limitations of marketing facilities.



8.       Turkey has large underdeveloped energy resources (hydropower and
lignite), but little petroleum. Energy consumption has grown in line with
GDP, but remains below the per capita average for middle-income developing
countries. However, imported oil accounts for over 85 percent of oil
consumption and about 45 percent of total energy consumption. As a result,
the oil bill was $3.6 billion in 1980, equivalent to 122 percent of exports,
probably the highest figure in the world.
9.       Hence, the energy situation has become a major preoccupation of the
Government, and the sector has been accorded the highest economic priority.
Prices for most products - especially petroleum products - have since 1980
been brought into line with prices in Europe and other indices of real costs
to the economy. Investments in energy now have the largest share in the
public investment program. The principal sector constraints are;
(a) organization and management of institutions in the sector; (b) the lack of
comprehensive demand-management and conservation programs; (c) insufficient
resources for exploration; and (d) poor project implementation capacity,
especially in the power and coal/lignite sub-sectors.
Government Policies Until 1980
10.      Economic policies until the mid 1970s were responsible for the
achievement of rapid economic growth, with substantial growth in industrial
capacity. However, both the pattern of growth and the excessive recourse to
external finance, especially in the seventies, resulted in the substantial
problems which Turkey is confronting today. At the same time, income
distribution remained relatively unequal; employment creation inadequate;
savings performance poor; and the industrial sector mostly inefficient,
despite sizeable investments, and not contributing insufficently to either
exports or employment.
11.      In the past decade, economic management suffered further due to
political instability, which thwarted effective decision-making. At the same
time, economic problems were aggravated by serious economic shocks emanating
from abroad; international inflation, leading to a sharp rise in Turkey's
import prices (including oil) and a significant deterioration in her terms of
trade; high interest rates resulting in an increased debt servicing burden;
and recession in Europe leading to reduced export prospects and emigration
possibilities. Inappropriate expansionary policies in response to these
factors delayed Turkey's adjustment to the changed international environment,
so that by 1977 the country was set on a course of rapidly growing inflation
and an inexorable foreign exchange crisis. By 1977, the inflation rate had
escalated to 25 percent against 15 percent in 1976, and was rising: the
budget deficit as a percentage of GDP increased to over 6 percent; with a
tripling of imports between 1973-77 to $5.8 billion and merchandise exports
and workers' remittances equalling only $1.8 billion and $1 billion in 1977,
the balance of payments deficit soared to $3.6 billion, or over 6 percent of
GDP. The Government's response to the crisis emerging since 1973 was to
increase external borrowing, mainly short-term. Consequently by end-1977,
total external indebtedness surged to $11 billion, of which short-term debt
alone was $6.2 billion. A crisis of confidence developed, the inflow of
external capital nearly ceased and Turkey faced a host of severe interlocking
domestic and external problems. Since January 1980, to achieve its goal of
reestablishing viable growth and increased efficiency of resource allocation,
through greater reliance on market forces and the introduction of an outward



- 4 -
orientation in economic policy, the Government has adopted a series of
measures in the areas of exchange rates, export promotion, protection policy,
interest rates, SEE prices, taxes, investment criteria and incentives, and
institutional reforms. A number of additional medium-term policies continue
to be initiated, and it is clear that the Government is determined to follow
tlhrough with its newly adopted development strategy.
Government's New Policy Priorities and Actions
12.      The new regime, which took over following the military intervention
on September 12, 1980, has vigorously pursued these new policies, pari passu
with efforts to restore political order following a period of rampant
terrorism, paralysis of the constitutional process, and widespread labor
unrest. It has also emphasized, unlike previous military regimes in 1960-61
and 1971-73, that it will transfer power to civilian authorities once order is
restored and a new viable democratic system suited to Turkish circumstances
has been constitutionally established.
13.      Especially since September 1980, there has been substantial action on
economic policies, although the severity of the economic crisis has forced the
new government to continue to focus much more on short-term than on
medium-term concerns. In view of the severity of the crisis, and the urgent
need to bring down inflation and stabilize the balance of payments as quickly
as possible, it has accepted the need for a temporary sacrifice of growth and
social objectives. However, while financial aspects of economic management,
especially availability of foreign exchange and balancing the budget, have
come to dominate policy concerns, fairly drastic structural changes have been
made or initiated in the operation of the exchange rate regime, the tax
system, interest rate policy, export strategy, the SEE sector and public
investment policy.
14.      On development issues, a welcome change is beginning to be apparent
in the scope as well as in the sectoral emphasis to favor the development of
energy, infrastructure and agriculture, at the expense of manufacturing,
especially as far as the allocation of public sector resources is concerned.
There is acceptance of the division of labor between the public and the
private sectors, with the former now expected to concentrate on the provision
of infrastructure while the latter provides the main impetus to industrial
growth and exports. The administrative arrangements in the agriculture sector
are being drastically recast to provide better service support to the
farmers. The development strategy has also changed, to give much greater
weight to exports relative to import-substitution. Finally, and most
significantly, reliance on the market mechanism is being emphasized as against
more centralized planning, including in the inefficient SEE sector. Given the
long period of inward orientation, detailed planning and administered prices
prevalent until January 1980, the impact of these changes will take some time
to manifest. They also need to be complemented by further actions, which the
Government proposes to pursue, to fully implement the new development strategy.
15.      The retrenchment following the financial crisis resulted in both
public and private investment declining in real terms since 1977. The overall
level of investment in 1980 was around that in 1975, with private investment
being barely larger than in 1974. The extreme shortage of domestic resources,
resulting from the Government's restrictive policies on credit and high



- 5 -
interest rates aimed at bringing down inflation, has necessitated rationing of
investible funds. The high oil import bill also forced a drastic reduction in
capital goods and raw materials imports needed for public and private sector
investments. The private sector, which to some extent has also continued to
adopt a wait-and-see attitude before investing, has been particularly affected
by the shortfall in resources, high cost of credit, and the lack of a
developed capital market.
16.      Despite the Government's attempts to reduce the investment-savings
gap and improve on the poor savings performance of the past years, the results
in 1979-80 continued to be poor as the Government had to bear the large
financial losses of the SEEs. However, as a result of major tax reforms in
late 1980/early 1981 and improved expenditure discipline, there was a
significant improvement in public accounts in FY81. The budget deficit is
expected to be about 1 percent of GDP vis-a-vis 5 percent in FY80; the SEE
financing requirements are estimated to have been reduced to 8 percent of GDP
in 1981, compared to 11 percent in 1980.
17.      The new Government's policies to reduce the size of public
investments, stimulate the private sector to take the slack, and overall, to
further reduce the gap between savings and investments, will need to be
vigorously pursued. In the last three to four years, the strategy has been to
meet the gap by tapping external financing on a prudent basis, which practice
is expected to continue. Turkey obtained increased support and debt
rescheduling from OECD countries and diversified its aid relationships with
OPEC countries, especially Saudi Arabia and Libya. Loan commitments, which
totalled $2.5 billion during 1972-75, increased over threefold to $8 billion
during 1976-79, and the gross public M&LT disbursements in 1980 reached about
$1.5 billion.
Effects of the 1980-81 Policy Measures
18.      These new policy directions are beginning to show results.  The
recent results are provided in Annex I-B. Briefly, the average annual rate of
inflation has been successfully brought down from 107 percent between
January-December 1980 to around 35 percent for the same period in 1981. The
flexible exchange rate policy under which the TL has been adjusted daily since
May 1981, together with the new export oriented policies, have led to an
unprecedented export growth in 1981; exports are estimated to be over $4.5
billion, or over 55 percent higher in dollar terms over the 1980 level.
Increases were concentrated in manufactured goods, which experienced a rise of
nearly 120 percent; product groups with the largest increases included
textiles, clothing, cement, iron/steel, and non-electrical equipment, with the
Middle East becomming an increasingly important market. A new and rapidly
growing source of foreign exchange is income earned from construction
contracts (with a gross value of nearly $7 billion in 1981) in the Middle East
and North African countries. These activities are also expected to add to the
normal flow of worker remittances, which remained strong throughout 1981.
Although import growth continued to be strong in 1981 (around 14 percent of
GDP), import volumes had declined sharply in 1978-79, and as a proportion of
GDP, will remain well below the 1974-77 average. Given these developments,
the current account deficit in 1981 is expected to be about $2.6 billion (4.1
percent of GNP) compared to $3.2 billion in 1980 (5.5 percent of GNP).



- 6 -
19.       In response to the freeing of interest rates, total deposits in July
1980-June 1981 increased by 97 percent and time deposits (including
certificates of deposit) by an astonishing 265 percent over the corresponding
period in 1979-80. Since July 1981, private companies have been free to set
their own bond rates in competition with banks, and can use flexible rates if
they so choose. The Capital Market Law was passed in July 1981 and steps are
being taken to establish a capital market. Following steps to improve SEE
financial performance - by freeing most SEE prices and gradually exposing SEEs
to market forces - the SEE losses are projected to be only TL 5 billion in
1981, compared to TL 72 billion in 1979. This gain was partly offset by the
increases in SEE investment expenditures which in 1981 stood at TL 534
billion, compared to TL 460 billion in 1980. The major tax reform initiated
in late 1980/early 1981 is now beginning to show effect. The overall deficit
on public account in 1981 is estimated to be about 1.5 percent of GDP,
compared to 4.5 percent in 1980.
Medium Term Prospects
20.       Making a reasonable assumption that the Government's new economic
policies will continue and be followed-up by further necessary measures, one
can tentatively project that the investment rate over the next 5 years could
average 23 percent of GDP and gross domestic savings 19 percent of GDP, with
the current account deficit remaining on average close to the 1980 level of
about $3 billion. This could allow the economy to grow at an annual average
of between 4-5 percent during 1981-85. The gross capital inflow required to
meet the financing needs would reach $6 billion in 1985, as against slightly
over $3 billion in 1981. The past and prospective movements of mscroecmic
indicators are summarized in the Table below.
Levels              Average Aaa.l
A.tual      Projected    Real Growth Rates /1
1975    1980      1985      1975-80   1980-85
(Units)
A. GD?           1980 TLbn    3,818   4,325    5,287        2.5      4.1
- C:nsumption              3,342   3,660     4,244        1.8       3.0
- Investment                 997     994     1,216        0.0       4.1
B. Exports of Goods  Current    1,402   2,910  9,086        6.4     18.8
$bn
Imporcs of Goods           4,739    7,667    13,842      -3.7      4.8
- oil; value                808   3,552      6,585        -         -
Current Account
Balance     Current $bn   -1,892   -3,196    -3,164
Gross Capital
Inflows     Current jbn   2,067   4,057    6,010
C. Investment/GDP   z          23.7    23.0      23.0
Savings/GDP                 15.3    15.4      19.0
D. Exports of Goods/GDP  Z      3.2     5.2      10.0
Oil imports/Exports
of Goods      "          57.6   122.1      72.5
E. Debt Service Ratio /2        8      11.5      33.2
/1 This does not reflect the latest (January 1982) estimates of CDP growth (4.4 percent) and
exports of goods ($4.5 billion) in 1981
/2 Total debt service as percent exports of goods + NFS + workers' remittances.



- 7 -
21.       The balance of payments picture in the 1980s could however be less
severe if: (a) worker remittances increase by 2-3 percent in real terms,
instead of remaining constant as assumed in the above table; (b) remittances
from overseas construction activities annually average about $300 million
during the 5-year period (instead of $15-20 million assumed earlier); and
(c) average import elasticity is between 1.0-1.1 (instead of an assumed
1.1-1.2). The current account deficit in 1985 could then be below $2 billion,
necessitating gross capital inflow of t5 billion in 1985.
22.       The viability of prospects in the table are briefly discussed below.
Continuation of economic and fiscal policies give room to expect that the
inflation rate can be progressively brought down further between 1982-85.
Policies, including continuation of the present exchange rate policy, and the
excellent 1981 export performance should also make it possible for Turkey to
achieve a real growth of exports of about 19 percent per annum during
1980-85. The export growth rate appears attainable, taking into account the
low export base and market prospects, especially in the Middle East and North
African countries, and the present underutilization of industrial capacity.
However, as the economy returns to a normal growth path, non-oil imports as
well as the demand for energy should pick up significantly. Although
government policy is to substitute domestic energy resources, especially
lignite, for imported oil to the extent possible in all major consuming
sectors, Turkey will have to continue to rely heavily on imported oil. The
oil import bill is estimated to increase from $3.6 billion in 1980 to $6.6
billion in 1985; but as a percentage of exports of goods, it is likely to
decline to 73 percent in 1985 from 122 percent in 1980. The pressure of oil
imports on the balance of payments position will thus continue.
23.       A significant determinant of future prospects, in addition to
increased aid flows, will be the negotiation of substantive improvements in
trade policies towards Turkey. Revised agreements between the EEC and Turkey
in 1977 and 1980 have partly compensated for the erosion caused by EEC
restrictions on labor movement and textile exports, and offer hope for a
better future relationship. The EEC could provide a large and growing market
for Turkey's engineering products, as well as textiles and clothing - if their
quality and product composition is upgraded. Moreover, Turkey has recently
succeeded in diversifying its trade to include larger shares for the Middle
East and North African countries, from 14 percent in 1978 to 44 percent in the
first ten months of 1981. While these markets are becoming increasingly
important to Turkish firms, exports from Turkey represent only a small
proportion of the manufactured imports of these countries. Hence, while one
should cautiously interpret the recent upsurge in sales to Iran and Iraq,
Turkey has excellent possibilities to increase exports of relatively simple
engineering goods, cement, and various chemicals, in addition to processed
food, to these markets, in view of its geographical proximity and cultural
ties.
Creditworthiness
24.       At the end of 1978, Turkey faced an overwhelming debt burden of $7.5
billion in short-term debt and t6.8 billion in M&LT debt. Turkey was faced
with service payment obligations (mostly on short-term debt) of $5.1 billion
(including arrears), or nearly three times the value of merchandise exports in
1977. Prolonged discussions with over 200 creditor banks resulted in an
agreement in July 1979 to reschedule a total of $3.0 billion in short-term



- 8 -
liabilities, including some $2.4 billion in convertible Turkish Lira deposits
and $400 million banker's credits (both at 1.75 percent above the London
Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR), with 7 years maturity including 3 years grace)
and $300 million in third party reimbursement credits (also at 1.75 percent
above LIBOR, but with an accelerated repayment schedule). Some $300 million
in oil loans were also rescheduled in 1979. At the end of 1980, arrears on
unguaranteed trade credits were consolidated in an amount of around $1
billion. As a result of these exercises, short-term debt outstanding at
end-1980 was reduced to $2.8 billion, the balance having been converted to
M&LT debt. Finally, in January 1981, leading commercial banks agreed in
principle to extend the terms of the 1979 commercial debt rescheduling. A
series of large-scale rescheduling operations relating to M&LT official debt
also took place. In 1978, 1979 and 1980, OECD member creditors rescheduled
$1.0, $1.1 and $2.5 billion respectively of debt service obligations and
accumulated arrears (the last exercise including some re-rescheduling). The
terms of the 1980 rescheduling were 8 to 10 years including 4 to 5 years of
grace, and provided debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and another
$0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. Without these
reschedulings, the debt service ratio would have been around 29 percent
instead of 12 percent at the end of 1980, on short-term debt of $2.8 billion
and M&LT debt of $14.3 billion. On all aspects of economic analysis, the IMF
and the Bank have coordinated closely with each other, and Turkey continues to
be in good standing with the IMF. A three-year standby arrangement in an
amount equivalent to SDR 1,250 million was approved by the IMF's Board and
became effective on June 18, 1980. Under the arrangement, Turkey has thus far
made six purchases totalling SDR 760 million, including the tranche for
SDR 100 million released in January 1982.
25.      Nevertheless, debt service obligations are likely to remain high over
the coming years. The ratio is likely to rise to about 33 percent in 1985,
and still be around 30 percent if the favorable assumptions spelled out in
para. 21 are realized. The high ratios in the mid-to late 1980's are partly
the result of repayment, which would amount to about $1.0 billion in 1985
alone of rescheduled debt carrying a very high interest rate, and partly due
to the need to borrow additionally in the coming years to enable the economy
to achieve a modest level of growth and revived vitality. However, despite
the rapid increase, the debt burden should remain manageable, provided current
policies are successfully implemented, the export drive is sustained, and
Turkey continues to receive further international support from private and
official donors.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY I/
26.      The Bank/IDA have to date lent about $3,292 million, through 65
projects. Agriculture accotnts for 20 percent of funds lent, industry and
DFCs (including structural adjustment) for 41 percent, power for 12 percent,
and urban development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, with notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report on the
Export-Oriented Industries Project (P-3199-TU) dated January 29, 1982.



- 9 -
27.      The implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
Political instability, limited coordination amongst ministries, staffing
problems and the serious external and domestic financial crisis since 1977
have seriously affected project implementation in the public sector. A system
of joint project reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June
1975. This has resulted in distinct, but modest, improvements. The broad
reform of the zublic sector launched in January 1980, and pursued with new
measures since then, allows cautious optimism that performance can be
gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded by new factors,
including shortages of resources.
28.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially: (a) the pursuit of an export-oriented
development strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing
a macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the new Government priorities
(completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on quick-yielding new investments,
and balance of payments impact). The Bank has discussed with the Government
how its overall lending can best contribute to the latter's medium-term
objectives, and help remove past policy and institutional constraints. A
series of structural adjustment loans (SALs) are envisaged, at the
Government's request, to support its program of structural adjustments that is
being implemented. Agriculture, industry and energy will be the key sectors
for project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize livestock, exports,
and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the emphasis is on
promotion of exports and employment, and the gradual strengthening of the
SEEs. Energy projects underway are in power generation based on domestic
hydro and lignite resources; future projects will emphasize the oil/gas
sub-sector and coal/lignite. Projects for urban development and public
utilities may supplement these efforts. The close macroeconomic and sector
dialogue established with the Government in recent years is expected to be
pursued on key issues. The economic and sector work undertaken over the last
15 months includes special studies of the public investment program, of
industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and of the energy sector, and
completion of sector memoranda on agriculture and industry. In addition, the
progress made in fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the
context of each future structural adjustment loan.
29.      A loan for an export-oriented industries project has been circulated
to the Executive Directors. Other loans which are expected to be ready for
consideration by the Executive Directors in this fiscal year are for a third
structural adjustment loan, sewage disposal, further rehabilitation of the
fertilizer industry, and a supplement to the Elbistan loan. Projects being
processed include; highway rehabilitation, agricultural credit, irrigation
completion and rehabilitation/modernization of the paper and cement industries.
30.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt was 8
percent in 1980, and is expected to grow to 11 percent in 1985. Its share of
total debt service payments (excluding debt rescheduling) is projected to
increase from about 10 percent in 1980 to about 12 percent in 1985.
31.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in the Turkish Industrial
Development Bank TSKB. As of September 30, 1981, gross IFC commitments
totalled about $226 million, of which $92 million were still held by IFC. New
investment opportunities are being pursued.



- 10 -
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
32.      Despite a large modern sector and rapid urbanization, 54 percent of
the Turkish people still live in rural areas. The rural population continues
to grow at about 1.6 percent per annum. Despite economic growth and rising
income levels during the last two decades, a large rural-urban gap in income
and levels of living persists.
33.      Geographically, Turkey may be divided into three major regions; a
relatively rich wet coastal belt stretching from the Black Sea to the
Mediterranean; the high semi-arid Central Anatolian Plateau; and the large
mountainous regions of East Anatolia covering a third of the country. The
quality of life in the rural regions of Turkey varies greatly from region to
region; even within a region, it depends on the ease of communication with the
larger provincial towns and access to basic amenities such as water supply and
power. From the perspective of rural development, Eastern Anatolia, where the
majority of the population is extremely poor, needs the most urgent attention.
34.      Successive governments have used investment allocation to disperse
industrialization to less developed regions, to mitigate the large regional
inequalities.  Since 1973 the Government has tried to allocate public
expenditures to provinces ranked on the basis of social and economic
development. It also established a policy of providing physical and social
infrastructure for all of Turkey's villages, including wherever feasible,
irrigation, rural roads, electrification, protected drinking water, schools
and health facilities. As a result, considerable progress in fulfillment of
basic needs has been made, even though not targeted exclusively at the poor.
However, the progress in the less accessible areas especially of Eastern
Anatolia, has been slow and further constrained by the country's economic
difficulties.
35.      To address the particular development needs of the poorest regions,
the Government established the Less Developed Regions Department (KOYD) within
the State Planning Organization (SPO).  KOYD has identified the structure of
settlement patterns throughout Turkey, and ranked the economic status and
potential of all villages and settlements. It has begun to implement specific
projects, and during the annual investment plan exercise reviews all sectoral
programs as they affect the less developed regions.
36.      Institutions;  The institutional framework for agricultural and rural
development is diffused and poorly coordinated, among several agencies, often
with conflicting interests and overlapping responsibilities. The foremost
agency in rural development is the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF). Other key agencies involved are: the Ministry of Village Affairs and
Cooperatives (MVAC), especially its Land and Water Development Agency
(TOPRAKSU) for small scale irrigation and soil conservation; the Road, Water
and Electricity General Directorate (YSE) for rural roads and village water
and electricity supply; the State Hydraulic Works (DSI), for large scale
irrigation works; and the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK), for village
electrification. Almost all agricultural credit is provided by the
Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).



- il -
37.       Agriculture:  Agriculture remains crucial to the economy
contributing about 25 percent of GNP, employing nearly 65 percent of the labor
force, supplying much of the raw materials for industry and providing for
about 60 percent of export earnings. The long-term trend of agricultural
growth has been 3.2 percent per annum, mainly through increased irrigation,
improved cultural practices and increased use of fertilizers. Much of the
growth in agriculture has occurred in the coastal areas. An increased volume
of investment in agriculture, along with institutional and other reforms, is
needed to absorb the increasing population in rural areas, and more
importantly to check the present drift of the rural under-employed to
overcrowded urban centers, and to realize the considerable agricultural
potential. Despite the considerable potential for expanding irrigation, the
major part of Turkish agriculture is, and will remain, rainfed farming
suitable for cereals and livestock. The Corum-Cankiri Rural Development
Project assisted by the Bank (Loan 1130-TU) has proved that effective
extension services backed by credit can significantly improve the productivity
of rainfed agriculture.
38.      Turkey has complex and comprehensive price support and marketing
programs affecting most farm products, with the dual objective of supporting
farmers' incomes and keeping consumer prices low. The Government also
provides input subsidies for fertilizers, water, on-farm development, and
credit.  However, as part of its structural adjustment program the Government
is trying to reduce the inefficiencies of the price support program, and to
gradually eliminate subsidies, including fertilizers. In this effort, a study
of land use, input subsidies and price supports, included under the Bank
assisted Grain Storage Project (Loan 1742-TU) is expected to help the
Government to formulate a viable policy.
39.      There is an urgent iteed to improve the quality of support services to
farmers. The extension services are fragmented, and poorly coordinated,
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF). There is a
multiplicity of directorates in Ankara and a corresponding proliferation of
provincial directors in Erzurum, including Teknik Ziraat (TZ) - the national
extension agency - which is a part of the General Directorate of Agricultural
Affairs (GDAA), General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine
(GDPPQ), General Directorate of Veterinary Services (GDVS), General
Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding (GDANB), General Directorate of
Forest Villages (GDFV), General Directorate of Erosion Control and
Reafforestation (GDECR), to name a few. Outside MAF, TOPRAKSU is responsible
for small scale irrigation, soil conservation and water management, and SEEs
like the Turkish Sugar Corporation, provide the farmers with inputs and crop
management assistance. As a result, each agency currently executes programs
prepared in Ankara for each subject matter, often not related to local needs
and without coordination; farmers are therefore confronted with conflicting
advice not addressing the totality, or the integrated nature, of their mixed
farming operations. Recognizing the need to provide effective technical
support services to farmers, MAF has recently reorganized them in the
provinces, along functional lines. It has consolidated the resources of all
its entities engaged in extension in each province, under three departments,
namely agricultural research and extension (including plant protection),
livestock, and forestry services, under the overall supervision of a
provincial agricultural director. Further, to make its extension program
responsive to varying local needs, it plans to decentralize authority for
formulating work programs and related budgets to the provincial directors,



- 12 -
with powers to coordinate field operations, training and research programs.
The Droposed project initiates Bank assistance to this program in Erzurum and
introduces it in Eastern Turkey.
40.      Through past operations in which TCZB has been involved, the Bank has
succeeded in persuading TCZB to liberalize its lending policies, especially to
small farmers and cooperatives. However, overall institutional credit still
remains insufficient, mainly because TCZB's resources have remained
inadequate. Its lending capacity is constrained by the level and term
structure of its deposits, and its responsibility to finance price support
agencies and absorb a portion of the fertilizer subsidies. Besides measures
needed to improve its financial capability, internal organization and
procedures, its lending has to be effectively coordinated with the sectoral
investment priorities and the delivery of farmer support services.
41.      Performance IJnder Previous Rural Development Project. Although
Bank/IDA have made 13 loans and 7 credits, totalling $649 million for 16
agricultural projects, only one was specifically aimed at rural development,
viz. the on-going Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project (FY75), designed to
promote integrated rural development in two provinces of Central Anacolia.
Though recruitment of national and expatriate staff was initially delayed, and
some problems developed later with recruitment of suitable village foremen,
the agricultural extension services in the project have achieved notable
success by developing suitable technical packages for mixed-farming practised
in these provinces with beneficial effects on agricultural and livestoclc
productivity. Despite the delays in the completion of several infrastructure
components, and in the expansion of animal health services, progress has been
satisfactory. Project implementation has demonstrated two valuable lessons
for the future. As part of the project the Government established a separate
extension service reporting to a special project unit within MAF in Ankara.
However, the continued and overlapping parallel coverage by multiple agencies
of MAF in the province created duplication and wasteful rivalry. This has now
been corrected, with the project's extension service being integrated with the
provincial services. Secondly, the structure of project coordination
arrangements, at the provincial and central levels, has not proved fully
effective. The proposed project incorporates the lessons learnt to ensure
that similar problems are not encountered. The Bank's Operation Evaluation
Department has reviewed some Bank-assisted agricultural projects in Turkev.
Though these audits are not directly related to rural development, the
proposed project addresses some issues raised by OED concerning the
organization of the extension service.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      Project Background;  The project had its origins in the Government's
increasing awareness of the need to reduce regional income disparities and
especially to promote the development of the least developed provinces in
Eastern Anatolia. It is based upon a preparation report coordinated by the
SPO, following discussions with the Bank. It takes into account earlier
recommendations of the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program. The project was
appraised in May/June 1981.  An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the
Erzurum Rural Development Project (No. 3671-TU dated January 26, 19R2) is
being distributed seDaratelv to the Executive Directors.  The key features of



- 13 -
the proposed project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary, and
amplified in succeeding paragraphs. Negotiations took place in Washington in
January 1982, with a Turkish delegation which was led by Mr. Altinok, the
Chief Financial and Economic Counselor of the Embassy, and included
representatives of SPO, MAF, MAVC, TCZB and the provincial governor.
43.      The Project Area. The project area covers the entire mountainous
province of Erzurum province, located about 900 km. from Ankara, astride
Turkey's main highway and railway to Iran and Soviet Armenia. It is among the
twelve least developed provinces in Turkey. Seventy-five percent of its
800,000 population live in rural towns and villages, many in high mountain
valleys. The difficult terrain, long harsh winters, minimal infrastructure
leading to prolonged isolation, and minimal government services have
contributed to widespread general poverty.
44.      Roughly 80,000 farm families, with an average size of seven persons,
cultivate an average holding of only 6 ha.  Only 66,000 ha out of a total of
about 370,000 ha cultivated, are irrigated. The rest are cultivated on a
rainfed basis, in a short growing season of only 5 months. Fragmentation
reduces efficiency of labor and mechanization. The most important crops are
cereals, forage, and irrigated sugar beet.  Farmer families, and the landless
in particular, are dependent on livestock for their cash income from animal
sales, and sales of milk and cheese, and on manure for fuel. Though the
animal population consists of 1.15 million cattle, 2.25 million sheep, 320,000
goats and 34,000 buffalos, production of meat and milk is low due to the harsh
climate, inadequate feed supply and high incidence of disease. The farmers
are today served by several branches of MAF, DSI, TOPRAKSU, and other
antonomous agencies (para 39). But these services need to be reinforced and
woven into an effective and coherent program. This is one of the main
objectives of the proposed project.
45.      In addition to 175 km of national highway linking it to Ankara and
Istanbul, and to Iran, Erzurum has about 1,440 km of stabilized gravel roads
linking the 14 district centers and about 4,200 km of village roads. But
access to most villages is poor. The district centers and larger towns have
adequate water supply systems, but nearly half of the village settlements do
not have any potable water. The cities and nearby towns, and only about 40
percent of the village settlements, are electrified. Even though the province
has 70 health centers, medical care is inadequate due to lack of qualified and
motivated professional staff, resulting in high incidence of infectious
diseases and higher than average infant mortality.
46.      The Project;  The project's objectives are to improve: (1) income and
employment levels in the project area, through increased agricultural and
livestock production; and (ii) quality of life, by providing essential rural
infrastructure such as roads and water supply.
47.      To achieve these objectives, the proposed project includes;
introduction of an intensive multi-disciplinary extension service at the
village level, with technical support, improved plant protection, animal
health and breeding services, provision of supervised short and medium-term
agricultural credit including credit for apiculture and milk collection
centers; irrigation of about 10,000 ha; a soil conservation program for
terracing of 500 ha and drainage control on 800 ha; construction of 94 km of
new village roads, and improvement of 710 km; provision of drinking water to



- 14 -
142 villages; supply of construction and maintenance equipment for irrigation
and road works, training, consultant services and project management. To have
an effective impact, technical support services, infrastructure and credit
will be initially concentrated on a core group of 400 villages in 34 clusters
of contiguous settlements, covering 40 percent of the province, identified as
being in the bottom 20 percent of the income strata nationally, but having
good development potential. Improved extension and credit services will be
gradually extended to the rest of the province by the end of the project
period. A substantial number of direct beneficiaries are expected to be below
the rural poverty level, including small farmers and agricultural laborers.
48.      Agricultural Extension Service:  To realize the objective of
increased production by improved farm technology, the project will implement
an intensive agricultural extension and field demonstration program through a
Training and Visit (T&V) System. A multi-disciplinary extension service will
be established at the village level, in place of the existing single
disciplinary approach by a multitude of agencies. The extension staff of all
agencies of GDAA will be pooled, expanded and posted to village clusters.
Village extension agents (VEA) will be trained in all aspects of agriculture
and animal husbandry, including irrigation, animal health and plant
protection and supervised by senior technicians, and subject matter
specialists (SMS) in each discipline, posted at the provincial capital. They
will carry out field demonstrations on the land of leading farmers who will
serve as points of contact.
49.       TZ will assume sole responsibility for providing extension services
to the forest villages in the province. As TZ's services have to be
reoriented and strengthened, the extension program would be intensified
gradually between 1982 and 1986.
50.      Investigations and Links to Research;  Besides providing effective
technical support to farmers, the extension service will develop technical
packages and mixed-farming practices appropriate to the region. In
collaboration with GDAA's Regional Agricultural Research Institute and Ataturk
University (in Erzurum city and which has one of the four agricultural
facilities of Turkey), it will conduct simple tests and small scale adaptation
trials for cereals, forage and other crops important in Erzurum. To forge
close links between extension and research, TZ will appoint a research liaison
officer, to coordinate the flow of research information to the extension staff
and ensure that problems requiring research are brought to the Research
Institute.
51.      Better management of communal grazing lands will increase the feed
for livestock, and thereby its productivity. To facilitate this, TZ will
investigate appropriate range management practices, and demonstrate them on a
pilot scale on about 25 ha of common grazing land in each of 50 villages, in
collaboration wich GDAA's Forage and Pasture Research Institute and Ataturk
University.
52.      Plant Protection Service:  To reduce the losses of agricultural
production suffered by farmers because of inadequate plant protection, the
project includes the strengthening of plant protection service through
additional professional and support staff, vehicles and equipment. In
addition, four research staff would be assigned to work at the Regional Plant
Protection Research Institute located in the neighboring province of Erzincan,
to help develop epidemic control packages suitable to the project area.



- 15 -
53.      Animal Health and Breeding Services;  In view of the importance of
livestock, especially for small and medium farmers, the project includes
measures to strengthen and reorient animal health services towards preventive
control of animal diseases instead of current emphasis on control of
epidemics, together with testing and demonstration of technical packages for
animal health care of parasites and animal feeding regimes. Further, the
Regional Veterinary Laboratory will be strengthened. The animal disease
control program will serve about 285,000 cattle and 950,000 sheep.
54.      In addition to improved animal health care, the project also includes
a pilot component of artificial insemination (AI) of cattle and sheep to help
improve the quality of local breeds. MAF's GDANB will carry out this
component. For this purpose, the cattle AI center in Erzurum will be
renovated, 3 new cattle AI teams will be provided, and 13 new sheep Al schemes
introduced, besides improving the efficiency of existing field teams for
cattle and sheep insemination.
55.      Staffing and Training;  To help intensify the extension, veterinary
and animal breeding, and plant protection services, the project includes
strengthening of the staff of the concerned agencies. Further, in view of the
need to reorient and upgrade the services, the project includes a
comprehensive program of in-service and overseas training of technical staff
as well as of beneficiaries. TZ will carry out the training program assisted
by specialist staff of other agencies in MAF, TOPRAKSU and the Ataturk
University. The reorientation of the extension services requires considerable
cooperation by other entities within and outside MAF. To help initiate
implementation of the first year's program, appropriate protocols satisfactory
to the Bank specifying their respective responsibilities governing provision
of SMS and other services have been signed by MAF General Directorates,
TOPRAKSU, Ataturk University and SPO (Loan Agreement Section 4.02 (a) and (c)).
56.      Credit:  To facilitate farmer adoption of new technical packages
recommended by the extension service, the project will extend production and
investment credit to farmers through TCZB's regional office in Erzurum and 14
branches in the project area. Short-term credit (for less than one year) will
be provided for procurement of modern inputs, including improved seeds,
fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, and feedstuffs for animals. Medium
and long-term credits will be provided for (i) purchasing farm machinery and
buildings for livestock; (ii) establishing beekeeping by 1,000 rural
households and expanding operations of 500 existing beekeepers under
supervision by the apiculture experts in the extension service; (iii)
establishing 3 honey packaging and marketing units, which will help beekeepers
realize higher prices through better packaging and marketing; and (iv)
refurbishing 3 existing and establishing 7 new milk collection centers to be
located within 50 to 60 km of the dairy plant to process the increased milk
supply expected from the livestock and pasture improvement programs.
57.      Rural Infrastructure:  The project will provide small-scale
irrigation, soil conservation, rural roads, village water supply, and training
for operation and maintenance of these facilities (excepting rural roads).
(a) Small scale irrigation and soil conservation: 56 separate small
scale irrigation sub-projects will serve a total of about 10,000 ha in the
project area, besides a soil conservation program for land terracing for 500
ha and stream channel protection for 800 ha. To facilitate its



- 16 -
implementation, the project provides for construction machinery/equipment,
additional staff, a research center for TOPRAKSU's operations in Erzurum, and
training.
(b) Rural roads; The project includes a four-year program for the
construction of 94 km of new secondary roads, improvement of about 710 km of
existing roads, and supply of equipment/machinery and buildings for adequate
maintenance of 1,459 km of new and existing village roads. It will benefit
194 villages in 34 village clusters, improving farmers' access to markets and
services.
(c) Water supply: A large proportion of villagers in the core group
of villages do not have a reliable and safe water supply. To improve the
quality of life, and prevent endemic diseases, 142 village drinking water
systems will be developed by the Directorate of Village Water Supply of YSE,
in villages with no water supply or an inadequate one.
58.      Project Costs and Financing Plan:  The total project cost is
estimated at about $137 million equivalent, including $60 million in foreign
exchange. The estimates include $4.8 million in taxes and t26.5 million in
price contingencies for both foreign and local costs expressed in dollar
terms, at 9 percent in 1981, 8.5 percent in 1982, 7.5 percent for 1983-85, and
6 percent for 1986. Consultant services of about 87 man-months of
internationally recruited experts, are estimated at $0.6 million. Average
direct costs estimated at $6,000 equivalent per man-month at May/June 1981
prices are in line with prevailing rates for similar services.
59.      The proposed loan will finance about 67 percent of the foreign
exchange costs (29 percent of total costs). The balance in foreign exchange
will be covered by a loan of $20 million equivalent from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). Of the local costs of $77 million,
TCZB will finance $7.4 million, sub-borrowers $4.9 million, and Government the
remaining $64.7 million. Since the IFAD loan will be administered by the
Bank, on the basis of co-financing of all components, it is a condition of
Bank loan effectiveness that all conditions to make the proposed IFAD loan
effective other than the Bank loan effectiveness will have been met (Loan
Agreement Section 7.01 (a)).
60.      The Government will on-lend to TCZB the equivalent of $22.2 million
out of the Bank and IFAD loans in local currency for a period similar to that
of the Bank loan, at an interest rate which will leave it with a spread of at
least 3.5 percent on all proceeds of the loans on-lent to the sub-borrowers
(Loan Agreement Section 4.01 (e)). The foreign exchange risk will he borne by
the Government. At TCZB's current lending rates, the interest rate on Bank
funds relent to TCZB by the Government will be 16.5 percent for short-term
production credit and 18.5 percent for medium, and long-term loans. The
conclusion of a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement between the Republic of
Turkey and TCZB is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement Section
7.01 (b)). Of the remaining $37.8 million equivalent of the Bank and IFAD
loans, Government will make $7.4 equivalent available to MAF, $29.4 equivalent
to TOPRAKSU and YSE, for the irrigation, roads and water supply components,
and $1.0 million to SPO for the training and project management components of
the project.



- 17 -
61.      Contribution of Beneficiaries:  Besides their contribution in cash
and services to on-farm development financed by the credit portion of the
project, the beneficiaries will be required to operate and maintain the
irrigation and water supply systems. TOPRAKSU and YSE will train
beneficiaries in operating and maintaining irrigation and water supply
systems. Further, in line with its policy of gradually eliminating subsidies,
the Government will pass on the full costs of agricultural inputs including
plant protection, pasture management, and Al services, after an initial period
of demonstration to end users in the Project area (Loan Agreement Section
4.08).
62.      Project Implementation; The arrangements for project implementation
reflect Turkish administrative practice; each agency will be responsible for
the execution of its relevant component. In carrying out their respective
parts of the Project, they will be assisted by internationally recruited
consultants, whose terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the
Bank. The consultants will be recruited no later than September 15, 182, in
accordance with Bank guidelines (Loan Agreement Section 4.04).
63.      The overall project coordination, so crucial in view of several
agencies involved in project execution, would come through a two-layer
arrangement. An Erzurum Steering and Coordination Committee (ESC) consisting
of the representatives of all the participating agencies and the Ministry of
Finance, has been established in Ankara, under the chairmanship of SPO, with
necessary executive authority to ensure the agencies' timely contributions to
the work programs, policies and budgets in Ankara. It will be assisted by a
small secretariat in SPO. To ensure effective coordination at the provincial
level, a provincial coordinating committee (PCC), comprising provincial
directors of the agencies involved in the project, has also been established
under the chairmanship of the Provincial Governor. The project execution will
be under the authority of the Governor. He will be assisted in day to day
implementation by a Project Office, including a Project Manager, and adequate
staff with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement Section 4.03 (a)). The project organization is described in
Annex IV.  In view of the importance of effective coordination, and
arrangements for project execution, the appointment of the Project Manager and
staff will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement Section 7.01
(c)).
64.      As timely recruitment and training of staff is crucial to project's
success, the Borrower will implement a staffing plan and a training program,
satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement Sections 4.03 (a) and 4.05)). To
overcome difficulties experienced in attracting qualified staff to serve in
Erzurum province, the Borrower will provide appropriate incentives including
income supplements for staff pending completion of housing construction
provided under the Project (Loan Agreement Section 4.03 (b)).
65.      TCZB will be responsible for provision of agricultural credit.  To
facilitate the administration of credit operations, TCZB and GDAA have entered
into a protocol satisfactory to the Bank, specifying their responsibilities
(Loan Agreement Section 4.02 (b)). Credit for beekeeping operations will be
provided only to those sub-borrowers who have attended a formal beekeeping
course offered by GDAA in Erzurum province.



- 18 -
66.      Interest rates to sub-borrowers would be in accordance with TCZB's
prevailing rates, currently 20 percent for short-term and beekeeping loans (30
percent for corporations) and 22 percent for medium- and long-term loans.
These rates currently yield a negative interest in real terms. While the
Government has actively pursued an over-all positive interest rate policv, it
has fixed lower rates for priority sectors including agriculture. The present
agricultural interest rates are considered acceptable as the Government has
raised prices of agricultural inputs sharply and increased the tax burden on
the agricultural sector under the recent tax reform package. There is also
need to encourage private investment in agriculture in view of its importance
for Turkey's exports and employment. Moreover, in view of the substantial
decline in inflation from over 100 percent in 1980 to about 35 percent in
1981, and expectations of a continued decline in inflation to about 30 percent
in 1982 and 20 percent in 1983, the agricultural interest rates, which are
fixed for the life of the sub-loans, could be expected to be positive in real
terms over their life. The appropriateness of TCZB's interest rates will be
periodically reviewed in the light of changing conditions by TCZB, the
Government and the Bank (Project Agreement Section 2.02), as agreed in the
Fifth Livestock Development Project.
67.      TCZB will place sub-loan repayments to the extent they are not
required for amortization of its subsidiary loan to the Borrower, in a
revolving fund so as to sustain its agricultural credit lending in Erzurum
province (Project Agreement Section 4.02).
68.      TOPRAKSU and YSE will construct rural facilities included in the
project. They have demonstrated a satisfactory construction performance in
other Bank-financed projects. Before commencing water supply schemes, YSE
will obtain assurances that the villagers will be responsible for 0&M, and
bear their costs (Loan Agreement Section 4.09). YSE will test water quality
and treatment of all water supply systems (Loan Agreement Section 4.06)), and
also initiate a system of traffic counts to refine road design standards (Loan
Agreement Section 4.12).
69.      Limited Turkish resources have often resulted in serious cutbacks in
operating budgets. To ensure that the project does not suffer from such
constraints, the Government will provide to the Bank before each fiscal year,
an annual work program for the project, an estimate of operating and capital
expenditures for the following fiscal year and the funds allocated therefor,
separately identifying allocations for special incentives and vehicle
operating expenses, and follow this up with a statement of actual expenditures
at the end of the year (Loan Agreement Sections 4.07, 4.01 (c), and 5.02 (c)).
70.      Accounts and Audit: While the participating agencies will maintain
clearly identified project accounts, they will be consolidated by the Project
Office and the secretariat of ESC and serve as a basis for controlling
disbursements. The Bank will provide assistance during project supervision in
setting up a system of consolidated project accounts which will meet the
Bank's requirements and also serve as an effective management tool. The
accounts will be audited annually in accordance with Government auditing
procedures, and ESC will provide verified financial statements within six
months of the close of the fiscal year.  To help improve the timely submission
and quality of audited accounts in Bank assisted projects, the Bank has
planned a survey ia Turkey which could lead to the development of a program
for improving accounting and auditing procedures, including necessary training
ror government's financial inspectors.



- 19 -
71.      Procurement and Disbursement:  In view of the co-financing of all
project components, the Bank has agreed to administer the IFAD loan and
supervise the procurement of goods and services in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Procurement of machinery and equipment for construction and
maintenance of the infrastructure works, vehicles and farm machinery for the
agricultural services will be done through international competitive bidding.
In view of the short construction season in Erzurum and to facilitate
initiation of project implementation, advance contracting has been agreed for
heavy equipment, vehicles and farm machinery, estimated at about $14.5
million. Retroactive financing of not more than $4 million for down payments
on such equipment is also proposed. Vehicles for the Project Office,
agricultural inputs, vaccines, drugs, chemicals, laboratory, research and
field equipment and other materials needed for the project in small lots over
the project period, estimated at $5.3 million will be procured on the basis of
limited international tendering. Farm machinery, small tools and farm inputs,
and other equipment under sub-loans, will be purchased on the basis of
farmers' choice through normal commercial channels. Because of the diverse
nature of the civil works, their small size and scattered locations, the lack
of adequate local contractors in Erzurum, and construction over a relatively
long time making it unattractive for contractors in other parts of Turkey,
infrastructure works will be carried out through force account, in a modified
form, which would permit small contractors to provide labor and handle lesser
works.
72.      The Bank and IFAD loans will be disbursed on a 2;1 ratio as follows;
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures on overseas training;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local
expenditures ex-factory for construction and maintenance
equipment for TOPRAKSU and YSE, vehicles and farm machinery for
MAF; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of
local expenditures for agricultural inputs, vaccines, drugs,
research and field equipment, chemicals and supplies, procured
locally under limited international tendering procedures.
(c) 90 percent of total expenditures for consultants' services.
(d) 25 percent of expenditures on civil works carried out by
TOPRAKSU and YSE.
(e) 90 percent of total amounts disbursed by TCZB for investment
sub-loans to farmers.
(f) 65 percent of incremental disbursements by TCZB for short-term
production sub-loans.
(g) 30 percent of amounts disbursed by TCZB for milk collection
centers, beekeeping and honey-packaging units.
Disbursements are expected to begin in 1982 and be completed by December 31,
1986. The closing date will be June 30, 1987.



- 20 -
73.      Project Benefits and Risks;  The economic and social benefits of a
rural development project like Erzurum may substantially exceed the
quantifiable benefits. The proposed project is expected to initiate a process
of sustained agricultural development in a poor region. Direct economic
benefits at full development are valued at $83 million in 1981 prices. They
would arise from expansion of irrigated and cropped areas at the expense of
land previously left fallow, improved cropping patterns, increased yields and
more productive livestock. The economic rate of return for the project is
estimated to be 14.2 percent. The project should provide some 4,500 man-years
of incremental employment, from intensification of agricultural and livestock
production. With 67 percent of this incremental employment expected to be
absorbed by family labor, thus making it more fully employed, the project
would create the equivalent of about 1,500 new jobs of 300 man-days each. In
view of the seasonal nature of incremental work, about 9,000 persons, or 9
percent of the labor force, mostly landless rural population, would benefit.
74.      The main beneficiaries of the project would be approximately 36,230
farm families, whose per capita income would rise by an estimated 70 percent
from an average of about 155 to $263, through the adoption of improved
agricultural and animal husbandry practices. An estimated 10,000 farm
families benefitting from the various irrigation schemes would benefit even
more, both from increased incomes as well as their stability, and are expected
to move out of the relative poverty level. Substantial unquantified benefits
would arise from the improved rural roads and water supply, better access, and
improved health conditions.
75.      The major institutional benefit is that the project will foster a
much needed reorganization of the extension services and their reorientation
towards a multi-disciplinary approach to serve the farmers effectively through
a training and visit system, and the development of technical solutions
related to local problems and needs. Together with the decentralization of
authority for project implementation, the project will contribute an
institutional innovation to the design and implementation of rural development
programs, replicable in other parts of Turkey.
76.      There are no unusual technical risks.  There is an organizational
risk that the multipurpose extension approach might take time to become fully
effective. Other risks are; (i) inadequate budgetary support; (ii)
difficulties in attracting sufficient numbers of qualified staff to serve in
Erzurum; (iii) delays in establishing the project's institutional
requirements; and (iv) delays in appointing international specialists. These
are not unusual in projects of this type in developing countries like Turkey.
Adequate safeguards have been built into the project to minimize them.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB)
and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 21 -
78.      Special conditions of Bank loan effectiveness are:  (i) the
effectiveness of the IFAD loan; (ii) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and TCZB; and (iii) the appointment
of the Project Manager and staff for the Project Office (draft Loan Agreement
Section 7.01(a), (b) and (c)). Other features of special interest are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
79.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
80.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 29, 1982
Washington, D. C.






Annex I-A
- 22 -                                                  Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AvlRACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             780.6                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL      554.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE               MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   300.0        550.0    1330.0                   2609.1                     9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       254.3        504.1      806.5                  2368.4                     7896.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27509.0        35321.0   44237.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7           38.4       46.5                    53.2                       76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         69.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           114.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         35.2         45.2       56.7                    80.6                      142.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       51.0         64.0       77.8                   133.9                      523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           41.2         41.0       39.2                    30.1                       22.8
15-64 YRS.                           55.2         54.3       56.3                    61.5                       65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.6          4.7        4.5                     8.3                       11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8          2.5        2.5                     1.5                        0.8
URBAN                                6.1          5.1        4.6                     3.1                        1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.5         38.0       34.2                    22.9                       14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       15.5         12.5        9.7                     9.1                        9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1          2.6        2.3                     1.6                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3            8.2      38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0        100.0     112.0                    119.8                      112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    110.0        111.0     115.0                    125.7                      131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            81.0         80.0      82.0                     92.5                       98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         24.0         26.0      24.0                     39.7                       62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       23.0         15.0        9.0                     3.4                        0.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8           57.1       61.6                    68.9                       73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            194.0        153.0/c       ..                    25.2                       12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         52.0      75.0
URBAN                                            51.0      70.0
RURAL                                 ..         53.0      80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..      20.0
RURAL                                 ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2799.6       2227.6    1770.3                    973.3                      621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       1883.8    1461.3                    896.6                      217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              590.0/d      490.3     505.8                    262.3                      119.4
URBAN                              190.0/d      313.4     312.5                    191.8                      120.9
RURAL                                 ..      5912.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         20.2      22.3                     18.2                       17.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.7          5.9
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          2.2
URBAN                                2.0          1.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               29.0        41.1       57.0
URBAN                                 ..         78.2
RURAL                                2.0         18.0



- 23                                                  Annex I-A
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
TURIEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY   -                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV'IAES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
HOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 75.0        110.0     105.0                    105.9                      99.6
MALE                  90.0       124.0      115.0                   109.6                     102.1
FEMALE                58.0        94.0       95.0                   102.2                     101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 14.0         27.0      41.0                     66.3                      89.3
MALE                  20.0        38.0       57.0                    73.2                      83.3
FEMALE                 8.0        15.0       26.0                    59.5                      85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  18.0          14.0       18.0                    28.4                      18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.0         38.0      30.0                     26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                          19.0         28.0      27.0                     23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        38.0         55.5/e    60.3/h                   75.4                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          3.9      11.5                     83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         49.1         87.7     101.3                    181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          1.8      54.0                   131.1                      400.1
NEWSPAPER ('"DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  51.0           ..         ..                   123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1           6.7         ..                     5.7                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1       15817.7   19220.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.2         37.2      36.3                     32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              78.0         67.7      54.3                     34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         12.1      12.9                    28.7                       37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                50.1         44.8      43.4                     42.3                      45.7
MALE                                  58.7        55.7       54.4                    56.5                      58.9
FEMALE                               41.2         33.6      32.1                     28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         1.0        1.0                     0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0/f        32.8/g
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.07?        60.6/R    56.5/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.27T         2.        3.47?i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.67          9.4 7    11.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     342.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     270.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UKBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..     220.0                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populationweighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1967;  /d 1962;  /e Six years and over;  /f 1963;  /g 1968;  /h 1975; /i 1973.
May, 1981



- 24  -                                                 ~~~~~Annex  I-A
-- -                                                 ~~~~~Page 3 of 5
OtPtfAI_TtOettF SOCIAL _lliCuTOti
ot.e.   klticouh ohe dai  er   re   ru   ore   enrlyjdedtsmnanhrttn   ndrttbeciaul   ic  enoorucccycyro   ntt
th -ss   sful to otscrtie ond.r. of egtus  Ltiat  teds. end chara.-riee cer-in  -acto  dlliffrne ...                ec
The rfisretC. groups er  lit ti. s-t  .out,fy group ocia subj(I -ctocnr  sad ill              a.country glcup etch, s-aoha  Plater ancg   ocn   ot  rcu y trop
of1" tesbetcnnreceefcCpital Surplu  Oil Eup-rac   grop                           ,.er   Kiddiel ot  North Africa ao MiddnE East' iehoes. becus  ofsrne
cob-cturlffntbei      i  o   eeec   ro   aetesean   r   nrtn    t.shiate  sith-snic    r  for sah indicato  ad  h.-e only  a
ed is non  t mona  -enin - e  be nnrcteed in  sisin  anrge  fui indirto  noeote    Th..n. sragsarnoly    ac  icsa tnghoiusof
Toi.cI -  crT   cr c  ae   opreo sd ares d Itterd ese.u                                                       -c,adrrIl dtotdsd by cirreeto  Iobco  hoaputal~ beds_
Saiunrl- oE.I ce of agricuinurs  ara-      d tastrarily or  a-ately                     aun labia io pabi tr ad priosce genera aI  ocra card ho.ia  andr-
ecr our. psetree . arket sd bitchr asrdeoe or no lie fa1lo; 1bg oats.                 cail mat io  ceoer .. I-' aeaeetsh  saospoatol   ife
ty srIIcer one phystoio-. tenb(etenc   prndigortrpei  os
0ltP PfR CAfITAL (li$) - GNP prl capits  e  atea -      urotc erice   rre . osi                    diai -ere ar  not ticuded.  traihoptas   horor.illd  baih
iO.  n   1979td darn.                                                                      se1 111  .d ..ica   atsc1       Mlusendof,  t.( fnhtoffc   co-pciec  byco
iron- ho pios-tidad byten            Ief  tede-
TnPoeict   l-Ya   choede      e  fJl -1. 190.: .Oli. ad.ibyP                           tdttl
date.                                                                                        Adnnleree -co   of Oooas Bod(cresirbuecd-   cl.ct.encn-
emnooorc         dI l. 00  sd179dc    J.ly1    96t170                      9HeOoU eoSIoNGatscalpops
dieiaronProlonon                                                                             cosreacSit nubrf rroeoroettlobo    orri-ort
Penano  i   an   OO_    Currnt  opclcio R        orujecb..tic   an   ando  OO e1f  esn pper1.ore cAr a...idcrbao.stid ruou  occh te  IoetB .o.tI.
Ontat  opsiaton by  ge sidsen an  thei   norra .blt   n   eityldicy  cae             l Ithe.i  repc t-.I..  beltl irga      g.   - cobotnr-aoto -outoeed.d
tog ite ecoernacren birh   irlceaett  et.t. nr c... I, er  pa pita  mooe           hces co Cleorric tryloaceo  of1 dnrli coasc-fon   or-p             sd  url
ieoe       b and  ec -d lie  tpot Ic atehtlc ci  er  7.  pears   The pee               onetoald-ltoeoi  eert iyt    igqareaa
enesfur f-rlitin cene sIr bae  h..e tene.  -csa.tg d-pine In                            of total. ucha. ad cocol dne inne fe...to  If........
fe-tilitroatodn   to trc-s  iesad pas  fatly  rtannint peIora.             e
Utah cnryis the- ne.iged Ioeo   h.s. ie.             rineio    f          lnritty       EDUCATcION
enire conetaIt.  TIe Is  chianed oty  ftns, feottilty  rams decine. to                         rmr   toieepplcin,toeiyCcldecidc tdhc
the reiersen  ise  o   ni   e  rsprad-tsnio  rae,n-o e-h Jeas ton.mer  hot adlened for differen t leogthce of prinat  eductot
enth    -    O         trnel.                                                               edocntnrqorea    meat fou  feas_     apoe 1.yttrctr
fea   -tet-tnar r.PIrlacnis. fI e -hed - The y-c  h-r  rati ...nry pproletiot                   pro-ide  te.   a .... otaot- oa ..oI tac    orico   In trut-ot  forppI
sten has hba reahed.                                                                          usal   f 12 to 17 penr  ofag; c-r-p-nde-I  -ouen .            r. n..I   l
Per sq. A.- ti-ysur po pulation pnr  q.e-  kiloence  (itt heccercel cf                        OuoIot  _oaletIrceto1ecnuo      Octoa cn_tttt
-oelre  1000, 070ad 1979 dat.                                                                 inldetechnica.  lo id-srial. or hocher protnhna Pabtot  oprte  d.pad-
Per en. An. esitaltural lan   - Co.puceuaaaooe  for agrOclturll..  land           elyI0 adpntcc   f scnsyiai     ot
Popuittoniss truotr. inrcen) -  hildren  lb-lu oycoel . -okto-aa6  (Li-                 PrIar I-d necooIder.     nes  tte y         onb-c  of teac her, it Ila
_ccpeasi   adrtire   165 year  atd onla  perc..nag.s of etd-ysar  lpo-                       curns..pcdloi ans
ano;1060, lO7t, ed1070 dar.                                                              odit 1  Iterec_rte loron--     Lteatedii               leromd aid ontie
Pouaia   rct"h gealoace     os       aul rn   ee   finlsd                                   esp-ter-eg   of octe  adu I ooeto~dt   rr   o   cr
ysa   P7p1nin,i l5-t   biO..ad 1 07079."                     "I
Pien1tatto  Irprt gaI   niceren   -arhan- Aoaoai sroth ra          I f urban porn-          CtetsG~Tfof
latius fIrl 1050ho  iOt-710. ed  900_-79.                                                   Pe..ssneep Care  I... thoe a..d-io,ainc-Pscgrcr   opi s   oo
trae ar  ;J5as te  rhausendl - 9Oaiua  lIon- bit1ha per theugand tI et-ys..               usfs cet ing les  thregtprrs   tlcdseuacsdere   n
Grad Tieth  atelee   ..at .tid   - Annue  dcnths P., cbhr... ads of si-ertdncrirer Ior bouebd iouartnt     il.yp...                                  nole    u  radio
papolTto.In;  960,10170,..ed 1970 dat.                                                        bendcar  nrgeerl  oht         hpe   -oad of  .pIpcolattOsn
Grossterrouotio gan- Aneage n-be  of d-ugbhtea  cea  itllb hea  in, lieadreeor   Inccctf   ad it peers obrraaoa-o   frl1
tilittpr-e-7-nsll   f tn-y-e  aorgc   ndrag t  1960. 1970, ad17.aeauteabrtiahsd ttotg
Ps.iPaot-sr   rreto   arteeo-Per.....ongoerneontisadityae                                                                    -n ectaio-tIf TV aerane   ineffc.-
nic   fcthld-hning ege(i-A4 y-e.(fo  s  birth-rtpol denirse no                           icra.ann. Cifculetion (ta  rbhu-ad ponu.iecor) - he ne the           - t   ieagd-
nil  areted nent In seae    g. tooP.co1aiot ofdatlygrritnre    sesa                                                                        e  ndsprote
.11 -...d -;b. 'I.                                                                    y~~~~~~~~~~uhtcni    tnne  nr--rii int..  racoi - aetrafnes.  It p.it onidere
POOD ast etfoTniont  bs dcr                                                                                          it aPper s..   te    f_ortaI     _ee..
inrsd  f  oarlaic  ee  dileed cotet  t             Ition    eg. coffee and
te -ae  nccdnd(.  hsalgr-a   p-od-cho  of each c..n.  te i  baado .LiH P7ORCE
nationl  araeprod-r.  rocce nnighn   1961-65, 1970. and 1979 dane.                          T-ttLbo1      ot   "t'ane(-EooIcllyHato   ssn,ttldo
enery equt-ls-  of ne  food eupplte.  netlabla in countr y peIait                            oere:optno  ofDalies                 cfiocttoa toi rtoecutre   r
per day.  .Inelahie etppriis  c-agiec dnestic orndartion,tars les                           ro   ipareble; 1960. 1971 cnd 1979 la_o
caprts, srd caeeit s-tk.ne  e                    -pite  acd  anf-c  Osedj. seds          Pes.eI.ccri-Pel  se   rca   rercentage of f-allbo   ore
Ilal.tte  used in food   oeets.ad Io.ee. in dttihinibr.  tqie                           atotf-Ieceo               ac  freO   aing, fcrc..nrY, he oIned
_et   cee timtd by PA  bese  onphy.tctigica   .O   o   o lsr-feiea  percetag  oftoe   labo  fnrce;  OhO  1970 adtI9S dar.
n-y end health tone.ideto    enrsp taln -peahre. bdy    htgba   g                          ouioIo et-Lbo   oc   neor.cdtonnt,  enuatoro
so   e   tsrbro   of 0ouanc   n   trig10pretCo   ee   nad e1-troicty.eara adnee   eoe cto   otllb-r forc`7190.
honeched 1-1n; 16-i,  i970  ad1977 dat.                                                     lol  an d 1070 data.
Per cetra ectir o  ororir (soca oc deyl    Protin contc  ofprcpita              atotcin  oeI cn  toal acts nod _fa t-1 atcpaloo
net copip o  fond  er da.  esesppip    f frd  n  ef ndansoe   Re-               actIpeeeoonue    st"t, ale, and fenie Ichor forc-a
quinecotsfor al contrie  aenbltsbed by Umdyrte for siot1-                           Iecnse   f totel. _le and f_.al  poulttrofal  tr  rap   to-ly;
olbooece c  be gass  f naI t ntt.   prdn  n   0  rs oInme  n                          1060, 1970.  nod 1079 data   incas are beed ot ll.0s  erIc ..e.. o.r.t.
yol.e protec, ofehich 10 I gac  hud ih-net  ntt.Theeed                                      Ieftt,o   eacoet           r  of, the,toet.an               arfed.
tn_sl potecsstc_rg    fo   h  ard _         ore  by PAO to the Tfctd                  tco...cto DePendenru Reito  - hetio of.pplttuder 15 ato h5 .rd o
tWr.  Pond bSr--y; 1961-65, 1070 nod 1977 data,                                             no  the total lahr frce
ysrc-ittapoeteai frneteladrus-roenspply of fnnd d.-
no_.0fs att.caeedpl             egeeprdy  tOIl-65. 1070 and 1977 data.                  onio   DinTe:trriV_
Cibldlse1-lfrtbtba.(rteccd  - odnua1 deatha per theacad On                                    Prer         f Pie I-ic     (bo-1,       e    r Iltk    -t-ctod byrlicoh-
agegroup-O  rear.  tocbtldartctbieaegrn 9o  -oeedrtpaco.                           ecn.rcrt1   err   o eflpretad  poorect to picce.ot
ttsdera dar-c  form  life  aiei16,17  anbld17  dae                                          f hi....ebolde.
HOALTH                                                                                        PtEoTYy T00GET CeUMI
Lif Itr.tsta eirb InTarad- An.r..e `-sho of fears of lifermaoo                             The folloning e... te  rne    aproiaueenateeo  Poo-roy (i-n
aT  htrc;100.  Ob  and  107  dar.                                                              au  eotdhrlterrrd ut,b contdeehl, eoio-
bNv.tof _ep.Ictt.oa,  n.oaI ibeaoelecegt   aeo                                                            Irrnaly sdrq=ondie-po   eroa   utfo   nccrcc
icracod elot- o-er;o toonw Lenlcbor cootl-ohrod r-rl 
eater  och eethat  rca prnect b Ihorcui, spine,ed santcary ecls  e                   R-1leltn   yept-          .ron  re  .e  .n-oir.o......rr  ep
yeoaan   ftheco...pectcne popccIattoca  .    los .uha  araa  rbliecatnoc cftlb.cotr.  Crier Itol It dert-d for. cnn  rural
faunnale               1--ccp   lctd ntae  thai ZOO -her  fens a hoas say he                  lne  etcjh adjueteo  for hitgher cos  of (000c  Inraaes
conidre  cchig aithin onenahe cbel          o  the..o.e...rra.rsa.tgiace Poaaintla.eio1oetolcc  ee  oret     rs
dn co  hs- to spend ad I.,.porroa-   Par  of theI dey in fatohiog nIhPu                              -                              .b.   .        .
fthil  s_                                                dieper1 neede.4
_ita colohnad dispose, aith oretlet  iraansdnr                                                                                               - o1lDaea encre-
Pcnito coPotoe       opttr  d                  innon d b   onya  ofb. pfri pltag ttygiter1
ftceqalfe   frne  ecal.dnlccosen-Inl



- 25 A-mx I-A
Pa. 4 of 5
TURKEY-COUNTRY DATA
Population:        44.8 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita.  US$1460 (1980)
Amount              Average Annual Increase (X)           Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$            (at constant 1980 prices)                    (at current prices)
Indicator                                   at current prices)
1980               1965-70    1970-75   1975-80          1965       1970      1975     1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                        56,617                  6.6         7.5        2.8         100.0     100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                   12,112                  3.1        4.4         2.7          30.7      26.4      26.2    21.4
Industry /b                                   13,529                  9.5        9.5         2.9          16.6      17.2      18.0     23.9
Services                                      27,925                  8.2        8.0         3.7         42.9       46.5      46.0    54.5
Consumption                                      47,918                  5.8         7.0        2.5          84.6      82.8       84.8    82.4
Gross investment                                 13,022                 11.7        12.9        1.8          16.7      20.1       23.7    25.4
Exports of goods and NFS                          4,130                  7.9         7.3        0.9           6.1       5.8        6.1      7.1
Imports of goods and NFS                          8,453                 11.2       13.8        -3.5           7.4       8.7       14.5    14.8
Gross national savings                            9,764                 11.6        11.9        3.3          15.8      18.8       18.4    20.1
Average Annual Increase (X)           Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(at constant 1980 prices)                  (at current prices)
1970-75        1975-80            1965      1970       1975    1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                               2,910                      -0.8        4.6                100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Primary /c                                     1,863                     -4.3         4.6                80.0       83.0      64.1    64.0
Industrial products                            1,047                     17.0        4.7                 20.0       17.0      35.9    36.0
Merchandise imports                               7,667                      12.4       -4.7                100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Food                                             308                      9.9      -17.6                  6.0        9.3       8.3      4.0
Petroleum                                      3,620                     18.5         9.9                 10.0       7.0      17.0    47.2
Machinery & equipment /d                       1,435                      9.9       -16.2                 39.9      39.8      38.5    18.7
Other                                          2,304                     12.1        -6.4                44.1       43.9      36.2    30.1
1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                                  15.1       17.7        22.1       30.2        48.3      100.0
Exchange rate                                                 14.4       16.1        18.0       24.3        36.4       76.4
Export price index                                            60.4       62.8       68.9        73.0        85.9      100.0
Import price index                                           48.6        49.1       54.2        61.7       72.8       100.0
Terms of trade index                                         124.3      127.9       127.1      118.3       118.0      100.0
As X of GDP
(at current prices)
1965        1970        1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                         15.0         22.6       22.0        19.8
Current expenditure                                                     10.0         11.8       12.6        11.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                              -2.0        -2.3        -0.4        -4.8
Investment expenditure                                                   4.7          5.7        4.2         3.9
Transfers                                                                5.0          7.5        5.5         9.2
Foreign financing                                                        1.8          1.6        0.3         0.2
1965-70   197r-75   1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                                             6.8         7.7        2.6
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                                                  4.1         5.0        0.3
ICOR                                                                            2.9        2.9         5.7
Marginal savings rate (X)                                                      28.2        19.5       30.8
Import elasticity                                                               1.7         1.8       -1.3
/a   At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
7T    Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, and electricity, gas, and water.
/c   Includes agriculture and mining and quarrying.
7-   Includes metal products and machinery, electrical appliances, and transportation vehicles.
EM2DA
11/2/81
(01841)



- 26-
AN I-&
?I)RKK-8ALANC! OF PATKONTS. ZIINEAL CAPITAL AND 0887
Weillio us$  cu nonee prig.4)
POP.lati t1        44.8 ailliOn (1980)
GNP P., CoPita. US$1460 (1980)
1970      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979       1980            iNg               gs
BALANCE OF PAYThERTS
et ports o.f g..ds 4 N7S                                                       342       3067      2993       3880      1953       2442      4293         3853     3937    3537       -
Enpott  of goods & 970                                                        754      2152       2742      2556       3106       3257      4102         5530    8295   12271
UnpoCt o:f good. & ovS                                                       1096      5219       5735      6436       5059       5699      8396         9183   12232   1080
W-rkers Reittances.                                                               273      1312        983       982        983      1698       2071         2500     2916     3368
N.t tranfer                                                                        91        23         15        12          -         -          -            -        -        -
corroot  -ocot balanr                                                             -56     -1892     -2295      -3572      -1710     -1771      -3196       -2834   -3035   -3168
Dirert pri-t.eioos.etnt                                                            92       251        163       169        147       200        100          220      284      369
obli Ii.  LLT (gross.) /.                                                        _271      _334       -720       997       1017      4321 Id  2489           2455     3082     3521
A-oti-5i-n on  8LLT /  (.e.I. d.bt relief)                                      -146       -175      -203       -234       -336      -414       -914        -982   -1992   -2424
Poblic 914L7 (not) Is                                                             125       159        517       763        681      3907       1575         1471    109       1097
De bt Relief(sorieinol)                                                                       -          -         -          -          -       814          533      811     -224
Other Cspit.1 /b                                                                   27      1065       1503      2074       0030    -2610        1099          651     1072    2175
Chang   ivrsre   -=jces-186                                                                 412        112       566       -140        74       -392         -241    -222      -251
Irternarionnl reseonna                                      ~~~~      ~~~~~     ~~~~~~612  1404  1292  726  874   800      0192         1633     1825    2312
OR..rvsa       .sot4sfisr                                                           7         3          3          1         2          2         2            2        2         2
1972      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
GROSS OISBURSEMEMTrS
.rssdibreetof MALT loans                                                        322       324        720       997       1017      4321 In 2489
Conesi_ ol261                                                                            100       167        193       227        596       909
sil.t-rs                                                                  139         69        81        130        192       510        849
ID                                                                           4        10         21        19          8         3          -
Other moItilater-I                                                         119        13         65        44         27        83         60
M.-t--rO si-oa                                                                ill1       024       553       904        790      1725       1580
Offjisil.  .p.otote-dit.                                                     1        47         57        42         91       202        283
IBRD0                                                                       25        91       117        146        145       277        313
Other ultilatera1                                                           27        48         54          5        35        11         35
Priv-te Ic                                                                  10        38        325       606        499      3235        949 
EXTERNAL 00BT
Debtfotstan.ding sod dishbe-d Id                                                2538       4475      6083      10943     14313      15791     17119
Official                                                                     2273      2980       1275      3648       5970      7198       9265
1060                                                                       92        268        391       512        648       890       1157
IDA                                                                        99        144       163        18         88        190        184
Othe                                                                     2082       2548      2721       2955       5136      6118      7924
Privt   /a246                                                                            340       558       1104      1144      4101 1.   007
Short-tore                                                                         19      1135      3050       6191      7199       4692      2847
Debt  -otnta.,di,, i-cldi.g  -rdishbr-d (p.blio and poi-ton)                    3260       6086      9207      13736     17554      19794     22875
0EBT SERVICE.
Tot-l dob t  -ir.ic  /024                                                                   291        360       410        232       689        712
POy.ents                                                                      161        125       203        234       336        414       100
I ...                                                      6~~      ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~3 114  165  184  196    275       617
Total debt seric-a    -oprtt  of goods o 0S
-koror   rec ,   ttoocos;                                                   11.8       8.4        9.9      11.        13.0      13.9       11.2
otldeb't aericeas3                                                            1.3       08         0.9        0.9q      1.0        1.3       1.3
Ar-rgo  inctr-t rote   ne.          on   %                                       4.4        7.3        7.2       7,6        6.9      11.2        8.5
Official                                                                      4.5       6.4        7.1        7.6       6.3       4.4
"i.t                                                     ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~6.0  0.7  7.0    7.6       8.:2      12.71
A-grae   -atoity of  -n   oos  (years)                                          22.1       13.1       12.7      11.7       13.2      11.1        8.2
Official                                                                     26.0      18.6       17.3       14.5      15.6      23.5
pti-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~11.0                                             5.1       10.2       8.9        7.6       7.1
040K GROUP EXPOSURE M0
2000 DOD/totaI 000                                                               3.'7       0.7      10.21      10.0       9.5        7.7       6.8
18RD dishreb      n toa.gosdishbrseeets                                          6.        27.       16.3       14.66   16.           6.4      12.5
1RD0 debt  :-cion/tot.l debt  -orio  /                                           5.        10.5       11.7      15.0      154        153       18.
IDA 000/tota IDO0                                                                3.19       4.3       4.         3.0        2.7       1.6        1.1
IDA di.   rsU.nf/     .tl   eosdisbornenente                                     1.1        5.4       2.9        1.        0.         01         -
ISA deht serolos/total debt service  /e                     ~~~~~~~~0.4  0.6      0.6        0.3       01.4      0.4'       0.4
As 2 o.f Debt Otsstseding
Yee  1980)
000010 STOOC'TUOG
Ma,critys....ctor   of doOr --t-cscing 
.ttooiti-t dor eithin  S Ut-r                                                                           40.7
et-titi-sdot nithin 10 year                                                                           60.3
Uotrear- tut..   o- f dobt ootntondi.g  I)
leecdo   ithin first Oto-                                                                        5.7
Ia-rld.n  ri-ato  guarateed and nn-goae-te-d debt.
Lb   1-rLode-o-rors de_inoi... ..dfor projected year  it io lode, nt IMF, sad a-id-ntifind capital i.flos.
/c   Ioclodon  62,630  million of r....olidsted shert-t-rt  debt.
77   Ioluo   oc-k of shoct- -n, end d.bt relief. hot eec ldos IMF horrning.
/.   Taken account of debt -eli.f dt to debt re...h.d.li.g, and e..cludes interest on  hkrt-t-r  debt.



- 27 -                    ANNEX I-B
Page 1 of 4
Recent Economic Developments and Policy Changes
1.       Against a background of deepening economic crisis, the authorities
announced a policy framework in January 1980 to initiate a major shift
over the medium-term in the orientation of economic policy from detailed
regulation of the economy towards greater reliance on the market
mechanism. Overall, progress in the program to date has been encouraging.
(a) During the second half of 1980, there was a marked decel-
eration in the rate of inflation from a peak of 120 percent in March 1980
to 80 percent by December 1980, and less than 35 percent by October 1981.
While this deceleration did not proceed evenly, the overall trend is
unmistakable, and is due to a combination of factors. First, the effect of
the major upward adjustment of SEE prices in February 1980 and the large
depreciation of the lira in January 1980 which contributed to the initial
upsurge in the rate of inflation has largely passed. Second, a tight
monetary policy was maintained, together with a marked increase in interest
rates to positive real levels on deposits which arrested the flight into
goods. Third, with some easing of external financial constraint, there was
a marked improvement in the availability of fuels and other key inputs;
(b) From September 1980, once work stoppages were terminated by
the military government and the supply of imported inputs was eased,
economic activity rebounded somewhat from the severely depressed levels
earlier in the year;
(c) With domestic demand still weak, much of this increased pro-
duction was channelled into exports, which improved markedly; during the
first eight months of 1980 the year-on-year rate of growth was only 6
percent, while for the rest of the year the rate increased dramatically to
60 percent. This reflected a major expansion in industrial and mining
exports. These trends have continued over the whole of 1981; as a result,
export earnings are likely to exceed $4.5 billion in 1981, i.e. a growth of
about 60 percent over 1980. The direction of export trade has been
generally shifting away from the industrial countries of Western Europe and
towards Middle Eastern and East European countries, partly reflecting the
sluggish growth in many of the industrialized countries, and also Turkey's
interest and success in developing new export markets within its region.
Their share in total exports rose from 14 percent in 1978 to 44 percent
during the first ten months of 1981. The war-affected economies of Iran
and Iraq were a factor influencing these developments; export receipts from
these countries over the first eight months of 1981 were nearly four times
the level of the same period of 1980. Iraq is now second only to Germany
in Turkey's export trade. Exports have responded to the exchange rate
depreciation and the strengthening of the export incentives which have been



- 28 -                  ANNEX I-B
Page 2 of 4
further improved during the first half of 1981 through better preferential
credit facilities, increased tax rebates for industrial exports, and the
instituting of a system whereby exporters may deduct 20 percent of their
foreign exchange receipts from taxable income.
(d) Workers' remittances also picked up sharply between
July-December 1980 in response to the interest rate adjustment and the
flexible exchange rate. They have remained strong in the first half of
1981, prompted by further increases in interest rates and a new savings
scheme for workers abroad which allows them to deposit their foreign
currency in Turkish banks, and redeem in Turkish lira on maturity at the
prevalent rate of exchange (they are not redeemable in foreign currency).
In addition a new and rapidly growing source of foreign exchange is income
earned from overseas contracting activities, mostly in the Middle East. By
August 1981, contracts outstanding totalled nearly $7 billion, of which $5
billion were in Libya.
2.       Serious imbalances, however, persist on the external account.
While total current receipts have grown considerably over the last 12
months, the same is true on the payments side. Substantial external assis-
tance permitted an increase in import volume of around 12 percent in 1980
(compared to export volume growth of around 9 percent), and import growth
has continued to be strong in the first half of 1981. Import volume,
however, had declined sharply in 1978-79, and, as a proportion of GDP,
remains well below the average for the years 1974-77. The terms of trade
have deteriorated for the fourth consecutive year, with import prices in
1980 rising more sharply than in any year since 1974, due mainly to the
increase in oil prices. As a result, the current account deficit rose to
$3.2 billion in 1980, (about 5.5 percent of GNP, compared to about 2.5
percent in 1979) and is expected to be about $2.5 billion in 1981 (4.2
percent of GNP).
3.       The problems connected with external indebtedness continue to
constrain rapid recovery. As of end-1980, the total external debt was
estimated to have increased by around 11 percent to $18.2 billion, inclu-
sive of IMF debt, reflecting substantially increased disbursements by the
OECD member countries, Saudi Arabia, IMF and World Bank. The maturity
structure has improved over previous years, partly on account of three
rescheduling arrangements with OECD member countries and two rescheduling
arrangements with commercial banks. Consequently, the share of M&LT debt
in the total has grown from 48 percent in 1978 to 79 percent in 1980.
Moreover, commercial arrears have declined $722 million since December
1980. While the term structure of the total external debt has improved,
debt service payments have grown rapidly on account of new borrowings to



- 29 -                     ANNEX I-B
Page 3 of 4
finance the expanded current account deficit in 1980, the inordinately high
interest rates on rescheduled commercial debt (close to 20 percent because
of the surge in LIBOR rates), and higher interest rates even on the debt
rescheduled with OECD countries than when the debt was originally
contracted. Equally worrisome is the possibility that net capital inflows
from M&LT sources might decline markedly over the next few years.  This is
due to the substantially higher debt amortization payments to be made over
the period 1984-89 when the debt relief afforded by the rescheduling
arrangements falls due, as well as to expected reductions in official debt
relief, in new commitments and disbursements of OECD and in credits from
banks.
4.        Domestic savings have for years lagged behind investment needs.
In 1980, the investment rate was 23 percent of GDP while the savings rate
was about 16 percent of GDP; the latter represented a decline of about 3
percent since 1978. Public savings have declined particularly sharply,
from 8 percent of GDP to 4 percent of GDP over these years. The
Government's response 1981 has been to implement a major tax reform, grant
greater pricing autonomy to the SEEs, restrict public investment, and
improve private savings through increased interest rates and a regulated
capital market. The need for a major tax reform had become critical.
During the years of rapid inflation in 1978-80, the elasticity of the tax
system with respect to GNP declined from around 1.2 to 0.8-0.9, and the
ratio of tax revenue to GNP declined from 19 percent in 1978 to 16 percent
by 1980. There had also been a marked shift in tax structure due to the
failure to adjust the tax system to inflation. The distribution of the tax
burden had become highly skewed and inequitable, the incentives were
distorted, and tax administration had become even weaker. A major tax
reform package was passed in late 1980/early 1981 with the objectives of;
(a) increasing the yield and future buoyancy of the system; (b) making the
tax structure more equitable; and (c) improving the efficiency of
collection. The package is now being implemented, but it is too early to
evaluate the results; the main impact of the new taxes, especially those on
non-wage earners and the agricultural sales tax, will only be seen later in
the year, and progress in their implementation is being monitored under
SAL II. Initial indications are that the tax reform is generating more
revenue than originally expected.
5.        Following the deregulation of commercial bank interest rates in
July 1980, and particularly after the breakdown of the "gentlemen's
agreement" between the banks at the beginning of this year, interest rates
have increased sharply and are now positive in real terms. There has been
a sharp rebound in bank deposits, particularly in time deposits (including
the new certificates of deposit). Between July 80 and June 81, total
deposits increased by 97 percent and time deposits (including certificates
of deposit) grew by an astonishing 265 percent. The deregulation of
interest rates has been further extended by the freeing of private bond
rates in July 1981. Private companies are now free to set their bond rates
in competition with the banks and can use flexible rates if they so chose.
In addition, the Government announced an increase in three-month Government
bonds' interest rate to 34 percent, comparable in after tax yield to bank



- 30 -                     ANNEX T-B
Page 4 of 4
deposit rates. In response to the recent emergence of "brokers" offering
monthly interest rates of 10 percent, which threatenes to destabilize the
financial system, the Government issued a decree requiring all dealers to
register with the Finance Ministry and obtain Central Bank approval of
their advertising.
6.       The long-awaited law setting up a regulatory framework for the
cagital market was passed in July 1981. This law among other things;
(a) regulates the public offering and sale of financial assets; (b) sets up
an independent Capital Market Board with seven members selected by the
Council of Ministers, with one seat nominated by the bankers association
and the rest nominated by the Government; (c) regulates non-issuing
secondary institutions and provides for investment funds and companies; and
(d) provides that the companies and intermediaries coming under the law are
subject to audit by the Board's auditors. The Board is expected to be
functioning within six months, and all institutions must conform to the
requirements of the law within 12 months.
SEEs
7.       To improve overall SEE financial performance, the Government began
in 1980 by freeing most SEE prices and by initiating steps to begin to
expose SEEs to market forces. This was followed in 1981 with additional
steps aimed at furthering their market exposure and improving their opera-
tional efficiency, culminating in a far-reaching reform package which has
been finalized as a draft law to be submitted to the "Parliament". The
initial steps taken were; all SEEs (except two agriculture service SEEs)
were cut off from the Central Bank, and a larger portion of budgetary funds
was channelled through DYB. These steps, particularly the freeing of
prices, have had some effect. SEE losses declined substantially, from
TL 72 billion in 1979 to TL 23 billion in 1980, and are projected by
Government to be further reduced to about TL 5 billion in 1981. However,
in terms of its impact on Government finances, this was more than offset by
the increase in SEE investment expenditures from TL 172 billion in 1979 to
TL 476 billion in 1980. As a result, budgetary transfers to the SEEs as a
proportion of total Government expenditure rose to around 20 percent in
FY80 as against 15 percent in FY79. IMF limits for 1981 on public sector
borrowing from the Central Bank and budgetary transfers to SEEs are
designed to reduce this drain in real terms. While the granting of pricing
autonomy to SEEs was a necessary adjustment, there was little improvement
in SEE operating efficiency, so that in many cases users of SEE products
and services were paying prices set at levels high enough to cover SEE
inefficiencies. In addition, there was a sharp build-up in commercial
arrears and tax and social security arrears, amounting to TL 209 billion,
in 1980, or 44 percent of total investment (compared to 10 percent in 1979).



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan
Number    Year   Borrower                   Purpose                           Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Twency-eight loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                       986.7      177.4
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey         Istanbul Water Supply              37.0                  7.9
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Ceyhan Aslantas                    44.0                 17.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey         Antalya Forestry                   40.0                  0.1
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                    Elbistan Power                    148.0                 30.9
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey         Rural Development                  75.0                 32.8
1194-TU   1976   TEK                        Power Transmission II              56.0                  5.6
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)           Agriculture Credit                 54.3                 28.1
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                          70.0                  5.6
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Livestock III                      21.5                  8.7
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Tourism                            26.0                 20.6
1379-TU   1977   DYB                        Industry                           70.0                 14.3
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                       Industry                           74.0                  6.1
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Northern Forestry                  86.0                 66.3
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Livestock IV                       24.0                 20.8
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Erdemir Steel Stage II             95.0                 57.4
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ports Rehabilitation               75.0                 68.7
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Grain Storage                      85.0                 85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                       Industry                           60.0                 42.9
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                       Private Sector Textiles            65.0                 54.0
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                       Private Sector Textiles            15.0                 14.1
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ankara Air Pollution Control        6.0                  5.7
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Karakaya Hydropower               120.0                116.6
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Sumerbank Cotton Textiles          83.0                 81.8
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Livestock V                        51.0                 51.0
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Petroleum Exploration              25.0                 25.0
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Oil Recovery                       62.0                 60.0
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Labor Intensive Industry           40.0                 40.0
1967-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Second Fruit and Vegetables        40.0                 40.n
1985-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 110.0                110.0
1987-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Second Structural Adjustment   300.0                   218.1
1498-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         State Tndustrial Enterprise
Finance                         70.0                 70.0
Total                                                      3114.4      177.4   1405.4
of which has been repaid                                 263.5         7.4
Total now outstanding                                      2850.9      170.0
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                      - 0 -      - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                          2850.9      170.0
Total undishursed                                          1405.4      -0-     1405.4
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                       Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                  -        0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90      0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                  -        0.34     0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                  -        0.41     0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50      0.43      1.q3
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                      2.50      0.62     3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                              10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00      1.37     8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75       -       0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                        -        0.05     0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                           -        0.52     0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                  -        0.43     0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                                10.00       -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                             0.33      0.27     0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         3.60      0.43     4.03
1974     AKSA          Textiles                           10.00       -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                             1.30       -       1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                         15.00       -      15.00
1975     Aslan                                            10.60       -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS        aree1                               ,.,O      1.37     8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                            1.58       -       1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                                25.00       -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                               12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                          -        0.06     0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                -        0.09     0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15       -       2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.85      0.45     9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                 -        1.80     1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                               33.15      2.25    35.42
1980     TSKB          DFC                                  -        1.09      1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories         -        0.95     0.95
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                  4.00       -       4.00
1981     Kirklareli
Cam Sanayii
A.S.       Glass Tableware                    13.63       -       13.63
Total Gross Commitments                        206.34    19.33   225.67
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    129.28      4.31   133.59
Total Commitments now held by IFC               77.06    15.02    92.08
Total Undisbursed                               10.64      0.0      10.64



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Ln. No. 844, Istanbul Water Supply Project;  US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date; January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two
major water resources development programs were completed in early 1979.
Substantial improvements to the distribution system were subsequently
completed, and tariff increases implemented. As of September 30, 1981, an
amount of $7.9 million was held in the loan account pending settlement of
final payments. Of this, $4.9 million have since been disbursed and
withdrawal claims for the balance are being processed.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas1Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31,1983.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The main dam construction is progressing
satisfactorily, with 70 percent of the works completed and the spillway ready
for evacuating the floods in the 1981/82 season. The installation of the
power plant has been started. The construction of the irrigation system is
progressing, with the system now supplying water for about 30,000 ha, one
third of the target. On-farm works are progressing steadily, with about 60
percent completed. Tile drainage is expected to be completed in 1983.
Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory, except as regards consul-
tants; the Government is taking steps to hire the latter. The project is
expected to be completed by end-1983.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project; US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date; May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction is substantially completed. The saw mill will be ready
for operation in October 1981, and the pulp and paper plant in May/June 1982.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project; US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date; June 1, 1976. Closing Date; July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by the
Government resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979.
However, continuing and serious shortage of local funds then affected project
progress, which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The
Government's timely provision of adequate local funds for this high priority
project from the Structural Adjustment Loan counterpart funds has helped
resume momentum. The colenders and the Government agreed in November 1980 on
a detailed program of action to overcome remaining implementation problems;
this program is now being implemented. Further measures to strengthen project
implementation and to meet remaining foreign exchange needs are being
considered by the colenders and the Government.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is in general progressing satisfactorily although because
of disruptions in construction, the irrigation works will be completed only by
end-1983. The Corum dam has been completed as also the works to divert
run-off from 5 nearby watersheds. The Kumbaba pumping station is ready, and
irrigation has started. The Alaca dam, delayed because of extra excavation
required due to bad rock, is expected to be completed by end-1982. Damage to
the Alaca diversion tunnel, because of rock slides, has been repaired and the
tunnel lining is completed. Contracts for the irrigation system of the
Guldercek area have been awarded and work is in progress. The project
extension service is operating successfully and its impact on agriculture is
promising. Village roads, water systems, small irrigation facilities and
electricity works will be completed by end-1982. The project is expected to
be substantially completed by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date; April, 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed, but deliveries of some equipment are delayed.
The loan is expected to be closed shortly.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.3 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: June 20, 1984.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the First Fruit and Vegetable
Export project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. The implementation of the agro-industries
component is delayed, mainly due to investors' reluctance to assume the
foreign exchange risk. The Government is reviewing possible measures to
overcome this problem. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has introduced improved
lending procedures for its ongoing supervised credit program, and this



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
component is being implemented satisfactorily. After considerable delay, the
consultants have completed the study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At
the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and
US$7.7 million of the original loan amount of $63 million allocated for this
purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan
Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977,
following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint; US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date; October 15, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
The project is nearing physical completion. The sawmill and
newsprint plant have begun operations although wood supply and marketing
problems for sawn wood need to be resolved.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III; US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date; February 25, 1977. Closing Date; March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has been affected by deterioration in financial situation and
cash flow problems of farmers, causing some withdrawals from the project.
This has adversely affected the preparation of farm development plans. Though
project area offices have been established, they are not fully staffed. The
Government has taken some measures, and is reviewing others, to correct the
situation. A higher than expected proportion of sub-loans has been made to
small farmers. An extension of the Closing Date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure; US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date; March 1, 1978. Closing Date; December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is underway, with progress
being made in preparation of specifications and project design work, although
the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than expected
due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey); US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date; July 21, 1977. Closing Date; March 31,
1982.
The loan has been substantially committed. DYB still has severe
staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional
junior staff. Actions already initiated to recruit senior staff on improved
contract terms are expected to overcome staffing constraints by mid-1982.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey); US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing
Date; December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and the loan has been fully committed. TSKB
has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of its resources to
projects in less developed regions and export-oriented industries. It has so
far been unable to raise resources as expected in international capital
markets because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the interest of several
financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit renewed efforts. The
loan is expected to be closed shortly.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Depressed timber sales have reduced complementary funding for the
project but action has been taken to remedy the situation through stimulation
of sawn timber exports and expansion of housing construction. Revision of
forest management plans is expected to be completed by the end of 1981, and
proposals have been approved to prepare new plans for all productive forest
areas. Action for recruitment of project consultants and fellowship training
is underway. Procurement is making steady progress.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV; US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has been
initiated. The milk industry study has been satisfactorily completed.
In:ternational recruitment of technical specialists, considerably delayed, is
underway, as also action for meeting staffing requirements agreed upon with
the Bank. Project farms are experiencing cash flow problems, inducing
withdrawal of many potential beneficiaries and resulting in lower demand for
sub-loans. The Government is considering measures to improve efficiency of
milk production and to develop an effective cadre of trained field staff.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel; US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line has been completed. Product selling
prices have been substantially increased in January 1981. Production from
existing facilities has been severely restricted from time to time because of
the lack of raw materials due to the limited availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation; US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement of
equipment is well advanced, with $43 million committed. Technical assistance,
training, costing and port sector studies, as well as procurement of civil
works are in progress.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage:  US$85 million of July 2, 1979.  Effective Date:
January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants have been appointed
for engineering design and supervision of construction. A prototype of hopper
wagons has been designed and is under evaluation.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey); US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 80
percent of the loan committed. Targets for SMI and least developed regions
are not however being met, in view of current policies' impact on small
enterprises, the need to focus on rehabilitation of existing firms, and export
promotion projects. The planned program for training and export development
has been implemented.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29,
1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
The consultants for technical services and for extension services are
in place. Revised Action Plans are being prepared. Approval of sub-projects
has begun, and about 40 percent of the loan has been committed.
Ln, No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of December
12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1983.
Equipment for modification of the Seyitomer plant is being installed,
and is expectd to be commissioned in January 1982. Pollution monitoring
equipment is being procured. Consultants are being selected for project
studies.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower: US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date;  August 15, 1980.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization: US$83
million loan of May 28, 1980. Effective Date: February 27, 1981. Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is in progress. Consultants have been
recruited and procurement actions have been initiated.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V: US$51 million loan of June 6, 1980. Effective
Date: October 22, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1987.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants have been selected for
some components.



- 38 -                             ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1916 Petroleum Exploration Project:  US$25 million loan of November
24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981. Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
Geophysical and geological studies are making progress and seismic
surveys have begun. Consultants for carrying out energy audits are expected
to be recruited by the end of the year.
Ln. No. 1917 Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project;
US$62 million loan of November 24, 1980. Effective Date; June 30, 1981.
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Detailed
engineering designs for the Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery sub-project have
been completed, and all major equipment ordered. The designs for the water
disposal system in the Raman field component is under review. The stimulation
of the Thrace gas field, now in progress, is expected to be completed by end
November 1981.
Ln. No. 1952 Labor Intensive Industry Project; US$40 million loan of
March 13, 1981. Effective Date: June 12, 1981. Closing Date;
June 30, 1986.
Sub-loan approvals have begun.
Ln. No. 1967 Second Fruit and Vegetable Project: US$40 million loan of
April 6, 1981. Effective Date: August 1981. Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Projection implementation has begun satisfactorily. Action has been
initiated for recruitment of consultants for horticultural production
marketing and studies. The articles of agreement for the Regional and the
Central Marketing Corportions have been finalized, and the Government has
initiated efforts to establish them as private entities.
Ln. No. 1985 Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Project; US$110
million loan of May 15, 1981. Effective Date: August 28, 1981. Closing
Date; December 31, 1986.
Project implementation is according to schedule. Some consultants
have been appointed, and action has been initiated to recruit others.
Procurement action also has begun.
Ln. No. 1987 Second Structural Adjustment US$300 million loan of May 15,
1981. Effective Date: August 17, 1981. Closing Date; November 30, 1982.
Loan disbursements were $81.9 million as of September 30, 1981.
Ln. No. 1998 State Industrial Enterprise Finance Project: US$70 million loan
of June 3, 1981. Effective Date: August 27, 1981. Closing Date;
December 31, 1986.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily. Action has been
initiated for recruitment of consultants by the beneficiary enterprises and is
expected to be completed by March 1982.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I;      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification                 1976
(b)  Agency Preparing Project               State Planning Organization (SPO),
with the assistance of Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry (MAF),
and the Ministry of Village
Affairs (MVA).
(c) Time taken by country to
prepare project                        4 years (Oct. 1976 to Nov. 1980).
(d)  First presented to Bank                November 1980
(e)  Appraisal                              May/June 1981
(f)  Negotiations                           January 1982
(g)  Planned Loan Eftectiveness             June 1982
Section II;    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III;   Special Conditions
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)     Effectiveness of IFAD loan (para 59).
(ii)    Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic
of Turkey and Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 60).
(iii)   Appointment of a Project Manager and support staff for the
Project Office (para 63).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
page 2 of 2
(b)   Other Conditions
(i)     Government will satisfy the Bank by the beginning of each
fiscal year that adequate funds have been allocated to the
participating agencies for the forthcoming year (para 69).
(ii)    Government will implement a staffing plan in accordance with
the agreed implementation schedule (para 64).
(iii)   Government will make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for in-service staff and beneficiary training (paras 55, 64).
(iv)    Government will provide appropriate incentives including
income supplement to new staff of the Ministry of Agriculture
until construction of staff housing in the project is
completed (para 64).
(v)     Government will pass on to beneficiaries the costs of
agricultural inputs, after the demonstration period, and will
also require beneficiaries to bear all operation and mainte-
nance costs of irrigation and rural water supply works (para
61).
(vi)    Loan repayments from sub-borrowers, not needed to repay the
Borrower, will be used for further agricultural credit in
project area (para 67).
(vii)   Government and TCZB will periodically review with the Bank
the appropriateness of TCZB's interest rates (para 66).



I3A^i  ltlNt3                13AII IVMIAOUJ         13A(1 ;!VIIIA
,2!1g-n,~~~~~~~~~~   [4} -lit| 
i w   |   |   4f                                |                      -I 1  1L:LI
ei | i +'g1''-'  -                     '                      I'-[fiii!'1
L-4  t -t
..... . . ..                                                        I



_____________________________________________                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD1l59R6
0ii50 iKX        it' fl  /voc*3 aG  S a    ic r )              FUS5                                                                                                                                                                         C' . iarTOBER 1981
^ f  ,  /   ~          ~     ~         r    '} r B                                                                                        . r A\
TU R K E Y                                                                                                                     /
4tF1w s  s t-               _               'N                                       ror 4v .         s       f        /                              .           G/
-r h   f                     r h  1ri                           z#.h.v_/t  ./ ~S/0
anr ler.llaW J/oerkWidaivtm e   /                                     y        Y     I                 -zs
.10.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
rou,cv                          >                        \                N  .                   -)        /)                                ( 5 Koovvor'ro,ea                >c       selectedvillogegroupsi or eBretion
/ tt /"t.7   )x'                     . < -./\g                                             <    r /  uretbogi  7    ~- n Villogo cothereterotosjoio ctors
-            , .  .   b-- di,tst bocdaie
P- =     P     -rsioco boudarey
/  1 ,.c re'h' Po in                                           Yogrears                             .                            @N     agionl rooli3ds wtrrsrrhrn
@ / -_ 9 g ~~~~~~~ .. _ / ^~~~ AhtRkiverslt
b E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. tE--uruA.j Ic-etr
' Cattle A I sbe ten  t be im,proved
-  c,OVaO,~rc           Cotta AlI -ub-ese rob  establihehd
She,ep AlI sobc-tern to lbe im,pro-d
AvirE  ne0th tem  to be established
'N  ~ ~ ~ ~~           Agricu1torel -nte-i- distrit ceter
}Meat pak,eg plant-adsleughtenhocs
k  oo          <                                                                                                                         RagrunaI agrIcutural research ceter
Y~~~~~~ g- ~ ~   ~        ~      ~                         Regiona soi ad wae -eem  eter
A                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agr,icutural -acondaryschoc
obs                                    *     Sugar beet Rctu-y
fvEIo~~~~~~~~~'o \~~~~~~~~  7  "'~~~~~~~~~~~k                                                                                            jj  ~~~~~~Agricultural mahiner  factory
A tAturb Uni,e--ty
cOr-TERS 0         10        20        30        40
tojoEs 0              10              200r1-



