LOAN NUMBER 2094 TU
Project Agreement
(Erzurum Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
Dated                              , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2094 TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   -kI%.YJ                   , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI (herein-
after called TCZB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that TCZB agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
seventeen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,200,000) to assist in financing the Project described in
the Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) between the
Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Bank as Cooperating Institu-
tion to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the provisions
of the Loan Agreement, and the Bank has accepted such appointment;
(D) b- a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TCZB, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan will be
made available to TCZB on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS TCZB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿-2-
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TCZB shall (i) carry out Part A of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, currently estimated at not less than $7,400,000 equivalent
in addition to the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan relent
to TCZB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose; and (ii) acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
as shall be, from time to time, necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business and the carrying out of the Project.
(b) In the carrying out of Part A of the Project, TCZB
undertakes that, unless the Bank, the Borrower and TCZB shall
otherwise agree, it shall at all times follow lending and operat-
ing procedures satisfactory to the Bank and including those set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
modified from time to time by agreement among the Bank, the
Borrower and TCZB.
(c) TCZB shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank and ESC, with GDAA, to define in detail the responsibilities,
functions and administrative procedures of TCZB and GDAA for the
carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. At such time as the Borrower, the Bank and
TCZB may request, in any event at intervals not exceeding two
years after effectiveness of this Agreement, the appropriateness
of interest rates and the other applicable lending terms and
conditions of TCZB in its lending operations will be reviewed by
TCZB with the Borrower and the Bank in the light of the conditions
prevailing at the time of such review and any resulting changes
shall be made applicable to Sub-loan contracts entered into
thereafter.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
TCZB shall ensure that Sub-loans will be used exclusively in


﻿-3-
carrying out the Farm Development or Financing Plans for which
such Sub-loans were made.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
TCZB shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of any Sub-loan to be used exclusively in carrying out
the Farm Development or Financing Plan for which such Sub-loan was
made.
Section 2.05. TCZB undertakes to insure or cause to be
insured the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
any Sub-loan against marine, transit and other hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation.
Section 2.06. (a) TCZB: (i) shall, in cooperation with the
Borrower, maintain, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part
A of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan, and to disclose
their use in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
and the Fund's representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in Part A of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Pro-
ject, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) TCZB shall take all action required on its part, in
connection with Part A of the Project, to ensure the timely
preparation of the project completion Report referred to in
Section 4.11 (e) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. TCZB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, TCZB shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) TCZB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the


﻿-4-
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Loan and the Fund Loan.
(b) TCZB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or the
Fund Loan, or the performance by TCZB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TCZB
Section 3.01. TCZB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TCZB shall, through EDLD:
(a) establish and maintain, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, separate accounts on its records to be used exclusively
for Part A of the Project;
(b) register in such accounts all its receipts and payments
for or in connection with its lending operations under Part A of
the Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting principles
consistently applied, including the following: (i) amounts
received from, and payments made to, the Borrower under the Sub-
sidiary Loan; (ii) amounts disbursed to, and received from, each
Beneficiary under a Sub-loan; and (iii) amounts provided by the
Borrower or TCZB from their own resources to finance Sub-loans;
(c) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure, and enable the Bank's and
the Fund's accredited representatives to see such records;


﻿-5-
(d) submit to the Bank and the Fund, on a semestral basis, a
summary of such accounts, such summary to be submitted to the Bank
within a two-month period after the end of the semester concerned;
and
(e) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
hereof and related statements and its records supporting certifi-
cates of expenditures referred to in paragraph (c) hereof for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Fund, in the
English language, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of TCZB's fiscal year, (A) certified
copies of such related statements for such year as so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested includ-
ing a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of such cer-
tificates of expenditure showing whether the proceeds of the Loan
and the Fund Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the Fund
Loan account, respectively, on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning such accounts and related statements of TCZB and the
audit thereof as the Bank sh7all from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. TCZB shall deposit in a revolving fund all
amounts received by TCZB on account of repayment of Sub-loans
under Part A of the Project, except for amounts required by TCZB
for the purpose of servicing the Subsidiary Loan, and shall use
the amounts so deposited for the provision of Sub-loans under said
Part A of the Project until otherwise agreed between the Bank and
TCZB.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which either the Loan Agreement or the
Fund Loan Agreement becomes effective, whichever shall be the
earlier.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of TCZB thereunder shall terminate on the date on


﻿- 6 -
which both the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement shall
have terminated in accordance with their respective terms.
(b) If the Bank shall notify TCZB that its appointment
as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agreement has
terminated, all references in this Agreement to the Fund, to the
Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan Agreement shall, with respect to
the responsibilities of the Bank as such Cooperating Institution,
be deemed to be deleted.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, T.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of Americp
Cable address:                      Telex:
.INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For TCZB:
T. C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                       Telex:
ZERBANK                            42 703 ZBA TR
Ankara                             43 249 ZBA TR
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TCZB, or by TCZB on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
Director General or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and TCZB shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Byi&
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
/sl iufd~ 14A1GK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
for Part A of the Project
Request for and Approvals of Sub-loans
1.1 TCZB will make Sub-loans only to Beneficiaries meeting the
eligibility tests specified hereunder and only following the
procedures and approvals stipulated below.
1.2 Sub-loan applications will be submitted to the nearest
branch of TCZB, after which an initial credit evaluation of the
applicant will be made by TCZB.
1.3 With respect to applications for Sub-loans under,Part A.1 (i)
and 2 (i) of the Project, if the applicant's creditworthiness is
found to be satisfactory by TCZB, the designated technician of
GDAA will prepare a Farm Development Plan with the applicant,
which plan will include detailed technical and financial pro-
jections and the proposed amount of a Sub-loan. The Farm Develop-
ment Plan will be prepared in such format and include such inform-
ation as may be required by TCZB. With respect to Part A.1 (ii) of
the Project, the evaluation of applications for Sub-loans will be
based upon standard per hectare input requirements for various
crops or per animal requirements for animal feeds established
by GDAA and TCZB.
1.4 A Sub-loan application with respect to Parts A.2 (ii) and
A.3 of the Project shall, inter alia, include a Financing Plan
demonstrating in detail the costs, including working capital, the
utilization of funds and a draft schedule for repayment.
1.5 Copies of the approved Farm Development Plan will be submit-
ted to the local TCZB branch.
1.6 Final approval of Sub-loans will be in accordance with the
normal procedures of TCZB, and will be based on the creditworthi-
ness of the applicant and the probability of success of the Farm
Development Plan or Financing Plan.
Eligibility Criteria and Sub-loans Procedures
2.1 In order to qualify for the granting of a Sub-loan under
Part A of the Project, each applicant will satisfy the criteria


﻿under the Agricultural Credit Guidelines and, in addition, each
applicant under Part A.2 (i) will have undergone formal training
by GDAA in beekeeping.
2.2 TCZB will accept security in accordance with the Agricultural
Credit Guidelines. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, TCZB
shall not change, amend or waive such Guidelines with respect to
the provision and administration of Sub-loans under the Project.
Terms and Conditions to be included in Sub-loan Contracts
3.1 Sub-loan contracts will include, inter alia, the following
terms and conditions:
(a) Sub-loans will be made and be repayable in liras;
(b) except as the Borrower, the Bank and TCZB may otherwise
agree, TCZB will charge the Beneficiaries,. in addition to applic-
able taxes and charges, interest at TCZB's prevailing interest
rates;
(c) the repayment periods and repayment schedules will
reflect the capacity of the Beneficiary to repay and the cash flow
position described in the Farm Development Plan and will be
in accordance with TCZB's standard practices;
(d) the amount of an individual Sub-loan will not exceed
the equivalent of approximately the percentage of the estimated
total cost of the Farm Development Plan or Financing Plan as set
forth in the Agricultural Credit Guidelines, provided, however,
that except as the Bank may otherwise agree, TCZB shall not
change, amend or waive such Guidelines relative to the limits of
individual Sub-loans under the Project;
(e) the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the purposes approved by
TCZB;
(f) the Bank and TCZB will have the right to see the prem-
ises, the improvement of which is financed by the Sub-loan, any
equipment, materials or inputs financed by the Sub-loan, the
business of the Beneficiary, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(g) the Bank and TCZB will have the right to obtain all
such information as they may reasonably request relating to


﻿- 10 -
the foregoing and to the operations and financial condition of
the Beneficiary;
(h) TCZB will have the right to deny the use of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzer-
land);
(i) TCZB shall require the Beneficiary to procure the
goods to be financed from the proceeds of Sub-loans in accordance
with the procedures specified in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement;
(J) the Beneficiary will carry out his Farm Development
Plan or Financing Plan, as approved, and will carry on his busi-
ness, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate technical, agricultural, commercial and financial
practices and standards, and will maintain adequate records; and
(k) TCZB will have the right to suspend or terminate the
right of the Beneficiary to disburse the proceeds of the Sub-loan
or, in appropriate cases, to declare the amount disbursed due and
payable, upon failure by him to perform his obligations under the
Sub-loan contract.
Disbursements and Records
4.1 TCZB will promptly inform the Beneficiaries of the amounts
charged to their respective Sub-loan accounts on account of goods
and services procured and financed under Sub-loans, such informa-
tion to be supported with copies of the receipts for such goods
and services in the amounts so charged.
4.2 TCZB will furnish semiannual statements to each Beneficiary
showing the amounts drawn on the Beneficiary's Sub-loan account,
including interest, payments made and the outstanding balance of
the respective Sub-loan.
Supervision
5.1 TCZB will ensure that amounts drawn on Sub-loan accounts
are applied exclusively to expenditures on the Farm Development
Plan or the Financing Plan for the carrying out of which such
Sub-loan was granted.


﻿- 11 -
5.2 In cooperation with the staff of GDAA for Sub-loans under
Parts A.1 and A.2 (i) of the Project, and by themself for Sub-loan
under Parts A.2 (ii) and A.3 of the Project, the staff of TCZB
will regularly visit the farm and agroindustry sites where Farm
Development or Financing Plans financed with Sub-loans are being
carried out, to ensure that Beneficiaries are effectively and
punctually carrying out such plans and complying with the provi-
sions of their respective Sub-loan contracts with TCZB.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          _dayof14&, 198.2,.
FOR SECRETARY


