             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                    86613
                      International Development Association
                        International Finance Corporation
                    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                            EDS98-439
                                                                                    SepteDrrber10,1998


 Board Meeting of September 10, 1998
 Statement by Stephen Pickford

                 The Gambia: Country Assistance Strategy (IDA/SecM98-131)
                                           and
                       Third Education Sector Project (IDNR98-129)

 Country Assistance Strategy

        1.    This CAS gives a good assessment ofThe Gambia's current situation and
 major development challenges. Both this strategy and the Government's PFP are clearly
 focused on poverty reduction, and I also welcome the strong emphasis on sound
 economic management and private sector development.

 2.     I am particularly pleased with the effective donor co-ordination that has gone into
 the preparation of this CAS. It is good to see the Bank acknowledge the expertise and
 leadership of other institutions, such as the UN agencies and bilateral donors. I
 understand from my UK authorities that Mr Ayub and his team have made great efforts to
 consult DFID and ensure that the Bank's strategy complements the UK's assistance to
 The Gambia. This approach will help to maximise the impact of total aid flowing to The
 Gambia, and also minimise pressure on the Government's overstretched capacity to co-
 ordinate assistance.

  3.      There is just one issue I would like to stress, and that is the need to apply the CAS
  triggers in a realistic, flexible manner. One of the major conditions for base case and high
  case lending is compliance with the IMF ESAF programme, which focuses on
  consolidating Government finances. This is sensible, as lack of fiscal control was at the
  heart of The Gambia's economic problems between 1993 and 1997. But the programme
  envisaged in the PFP and incorporated in the ESAF requires stringent cuts in public
  expenditure and an increase in Government revenue equivalent to 1% of GDP at the same
  time as increased expenditure on the poor. There is a risk that the Government will find
  it hard to meet its poverty reduction aims in such a tight fiscal framework. Both the
Thl~   C8Iffi~~t 5!1 0Jlt~ . ~    0   8   t   ~Htffifll~       IP~0 &~~"® lt~~i<ffli!~· in the
                                              Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without\

 ----~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------------·~
                                             2


pressures on the budget, and there is a danger that ESAF targets will be met through cuts
in non-recurrent expenditures - which will hit the poor hardest. I would welcome
assurances from Staff that, should revenue fall short of the ESAF criteria, the Bank will
work with The Gambia to ensure social expenditures are protected in any budget
reallocations that may be required.

4.     I understand that the Government plans to conduct annual Public Expenditure
Reviews as a tool to improve the allocation, effectiveness, management and
accountability of public expenditures, and has also indicated that it will host an annual
review, with development partners, around the budget. These plans are very welcome.
The annual review, in particular, will provide an opportunity for a broad and transparent
peer review of budget performance, including implementation of the recommendations of
the PERs in the education and health sectors - which is a trigger for maintaining the base
and high case scenarios.

5.     I also welcome the CAS and PFP objectives to improve the regulatory and legal
enabling environments in The Gambia. These are needed to support private sector
development but, as the CAS acknowledges, effective enforcement of the legislation is
essential. This will be difficult given weak control systems in both the legal and financial
sectors. Substantial capacity building will be needed to rejuvenate the public and private
sectors, and this will take some time.

Third Education Sector Project

6.      I also support this adjustable programme loan. It is timely, as the education sector
offers the most promising opportunity to develop the Public Expenditure Review process
and test methods of improving financial management of public resources in The Gambia.
And, as with the CAS, it illustrates a welcome move away from vertical projects towards
co-ordination of donor programmes within the Government's own macroeconomic
framework. This is a critical lesson learned from past experience in The Gambia, and this
APL offers a real opportunity to move towards a more productive partnership between the
Government and donors.




                                                                                                      _,
                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                               ·; 7)
                                                                                                -     =OJ!!
                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                '
                                                                                               ~.:·
