Report No. PID5912
Project Name                     The Gambia-Third Education Sector Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       GMPE35643
Borrower                         Government of  The Gambia
Implementing Agency              Department of State for Education
Bedford Place Building Banjul
Contact Person: Mr. Lawrence Bruce
telephone - 220-22-85-22
fax - 220- 22-50-66
Date PID prepared                May 11, 1994
Date PID revised                 January 7, 1998
Appraisal Date                   June 8, 1998
Project Board Date               October 13, 1998
Country Background
Recent education development priorities were outlined in a 15
year education sector development program (1988-2003) prepared in
1988. Main objectives of the program were by 2003 to: (1) Increase
the gross enrollment rate in grades 1-6 to 75% and the transition
rate from grade 6-7 to 60%;    (2) Develop a broad-based curriculum
for basic education (grades 1-9); (3) Improve the quality of
learning in the basic cycle by upgrading all unqualified teachers,
and increasing expenditure on learning materials; (4) Increase
access to post-secondary vocational training and improve the
coordination of its provision; and (5) Promote and coordinate
functional literacy programs to increase access.
Since the start of the policy period some important
achievements have been attained. By mid-term (1996/97), most
objectives for primary education were exceeded. Over the period,
primary enrollment grew at an average annual rate of 8% a year;
enrollment increased from 70,000 students in 1988 (55% of the
school-aged population), to 132,480 in 1996/97     (70% of school-aged
children); girls' share of primary enrollment increased from 40% to
44% of the total; and the transition rate from the lower to the
upper cycle of basic education (grade 6 to 7) increased from 35% to
70%.  The 1,200 unqualified teachers in the system at the start of
the period were upgraded; and textbooks were made available to allow
for a set of books for two pupils in grades 1-5 and a set for each
pupil from grades 6-9, on a rental basis. To finance the expansion
and improvement, education's share of the Government's recurrent
budget increased from 15% in 1990 to 21.4% in 1996/97.
The second half of the policy period will essentially maintain
the same priorities while pushing the enrollment target for the 9-



year basic education cycle to 90t of the school-aged population by
2005. It will also pursue issues related to equity, effectiveness,
efficiency and sector management which had not received sufficient
attention during the first half of the policy period, and address
emerging issues in higher education and sector financing.
Project Objectives
The project will support the implementation of the second half
of the Government's 15-year Education Sector Policy Framework, 1988-
2003 and its accompanying investment program. The program aims to
upgrade the general level of education of the labor force; improve
labor adaptability, productivity, and trainability; improve the
competitiveness of the economy by focusing on science and technology
education; and train needed technicians, particularly at the basic
skills level, as well as middle level personnel needed in the
service, education and health sectors. The program targets the
following main objectives:
--  Basic Education:   Achieve a gross enrollment ratio of 90t and
ensure that all students acquire the desired levels of achievement
in core areas.
-- Secondary, Vocational and Higher Education : (a) Expand access
to general secondary education in rural areas while emphasizing
math, science and computer literacy, (b) Develop cost-effective
options for vocational and higher education, focusing on basic
vocational skills and developing an affordable, cost-effective plan
to upgrade select existing post-secondary programs to degree level.
-- Pilot Programs: Test innovative delivery systems for adult
literacy and Early Childhood Development targeting women and the
poor.
-- Sector Planning, Monitoring, Evaluation and Management: (a)
Reduce the gap between policy and implementation by devolving
greater responsibility to the local level and strengthening
management and professionalism at all levels, and (b) Ensure
sustainable financing.
Project Description
The program has 5 components (a) expand access through
classroom construction; (b) improve curriculum development; (c)
expand access in rural areas by constructing 10 new schools,
strengthen math and science education, and introduce computer
literacy in all schools; (d) develop and expand cost-effective
options for vocational and on-the-job training; and (e) prepare a
plan for the establishment of a university in The Gambia.
Pilot programs targeting young women and the poor will be
experimented in the areas of adult literacy and early childhood
development. Improving system financing, planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation will focus on strengthening computerized
management systems and human resources, and introducing performance
-2 -



evaluation.
Project financing
The 8-year investment program is roughly estimated to cost
about US$100 million, although cost estimates need to be refined.
It is expected that the following agencies will cofinance the
program -- the European Union, DfID, IDB, UNICEF, UNDP, World Food
Program, ADB, and OPEC with IDA financing the remainder.
Project Implementation
Project Implementation is the responsibility of the Department
of State for Education. Oversight of policy and program
implementation will be the responsibility of the Senior Management
Team of the DOSE, coordinated by the Permanent Secretary. Each sub-
component will be headed by a sub-component coordinator who will be
managed by their respective Directorate directors. The Project
Coordination Unit in the DOSE will be responsible for communicating
with donors, coordinating all program inputs, controlling the
consistency of program expenditure with the approved annual
programs, procurement, ensuring adherence to legal agreements,
financial management of IDA funds, and submitting financial audits
and semi-annual reports to participating donors. The Permanent
Secretary will be responsible for ensuring donor coordination.
Project Sustainability
Project sustainability will be ensured through the
establishment of a long-term (8 year) public expenditure framework
for the sector which will ensure appropriate financing for
expansion, quality improvements, maintenance and operating costs.
Budget submissions and actual expenditure will be reviewed and
approved by funding agencies annually. Continued funding agency
financing will be linked to appropriate levels of public financing.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
The following main lessons have been learned:
--    A project approach to the development of the sector led to
insufficient ownership of project activities on the part of the DOSE
and, therefore, lack of integration of project activities into the
DOSE's work program.
--    The lack of clear policy objectives and cost considerations
regarding subsidies made some programs unsustainable on a larger
scale (the school feeding program, teacher training, subsidies to
school bus service).
--    Overall weak management, poor planning, monitoring and
evaluation combined with a lack of consultation with stakeholders
resulted in poorly mapped out strategies and implementation plans,
lack of clearly defined responsibilities, and incomplete
implementation or reversal of policy decisions.
- 3 -



--    Capacity building strategies have had limited success.    Long-
term technical assistants were underutilized and not assigned
counterparts. Capacity building was mainly defined as degree
training abroad for which candidates were selected mainly on the
basis of favoritism, and the programs attended were generally of low
quality.
--     Consistency of personnel was a critical factor to successful
implementation.
Poverty Category
Program of targeted interventions
Environmental Aspects
This is a Category C project. The project is expected to have
a positive impact on the environment by making available hygienic
sanitary conditions and safe water supply to schools. In addition,
rhum palm, a rapidly depleting resource, has not been used under the
previous project in the construction of schools and will not be used
in the proposed program. There are no resettlement issues. New
schools and additions are build on vacant Government and community
owned lots.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone : (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending January 16, 1998.
- 4 -



