                                                                 86611
         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                  International Development Association
                     International Finance Corporation
                Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                        CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                       EDS98-435
                                                                 September 9, 1998


Board Meeting of September 10, 1998
Statement by Jan Piercy
               The Gambia - Country Assistance Strategy
              The Gambia: Third Education Sector Project
The CAS as a Whole

1.   I commend staff on an excellent Country Assistance Strategy. I
believe it correctly identifies the main development objective in The
Gambia as achieving a sustainable reduction in poverty, correctly
commends the Government of The Gambia for instituting sound
macroeconomic policies, and pays appropriate attention to the
necessity of ensuring adequate allocation of resources to human
capital development. The CAS clearly states priority areas for GOTG
action and carries those priorities through in the lending and non-
lending operations as well as training through EDI. The program,
which is ambitious in and of itself, could yield huge results if
implemented well.
2.   I favorably note the Bank’s inclusion of the cross-cutting themes
of gender, capacity building and environment, which we deem vital
considerations in any development project for The Gambia. Since women
are a significant driving force of the Gambian economy, I encourage
the Bank and the Government to strengthen their efforts to improve the
economic and social well-being of Gambian women, with direct benefit
for families and society as a whole.
3.   In this regard, I hope that the proposed Population LIL will
address the problem of Female Genital Mutilation.    I know that this
issue is addressed in the on-going health project, but it seems to me
that it should also be incorporated in the LIL.    I would appreciate
staff comment on this point.
4.   I strongly concur with the Bank’s decision to involve itself
selectively, leading donor efforts where it has significant expertise,
following in areas where other donors are active, and eschewing
activities better covered by other donors. I was particularly pleased
with the discussion in the CAS on cooperation with donors and building
on the Bank’s comparative advantage.
5.   I note that the CAS identifies a “project-by-project approach
followed by many donors, each donor with its own reporting and
monitoring requirements” as having hindered implementation of the
previous CAS.  We applaud Bank efforts to counteract this unhelpful
tendency.
                                   2



6.   I believe that the Government of the Gambia has made commendable
progress in instituting streamlined regulatory procedures while
minimizing factors that lead to petty corruption in the bureaucracy.
This is an important step in creating an environment conducive to
investment in the country.    I would appreciate staff elaboration on
the proposed non-lending activity aimed at fighting corruption.
7.   The success of the CAS hinges on the equity, efficiency and
effectiveness of public spending and accounting methods. The PERs in
the education and health sectors and the resulting recommendations
will partially address some of this, but it is unclear from the CAS
what role the Bank, in collaboration with the IMF, will play in the
larger PER process. I would appreciate staff comment on this point.
8.   There is no analysis in the CAS of military expenditures which,
in 1995, were the eighth highest in Africa. In this same year, The
Gambia allocated more to the military than to health and education
combined. With poverty indicators amongst the poorest in world, this
is unacceptable.   Paragraph 60 notes the inadequacy of the government
audit function. Are government audits made publicly available? Are
audits done of military expenditures and are they made public?
9.   The CAS seems to have a dual economic focus: (1) macroeconomic
consolidation and
(2) creation of an export processing zone (EPZ).
10. We applaud continued macroeconomic reforms to consolidate the
gains already made, but have some concerns.
     ·    The CAS fails to address specifically The Gambia's role in
          relation to the increasing regional economic integration,
          particularly within WAEMU.
     ·    Will the effort to improve the customs service include
          elimination of the significant customs exemptions, in
          coordination with the IMF reform strategy?
     ·    What specifically is envisioned as "flexibility in the
          labor legislation"? I hope it does not entail compromises
          in worker safety, core labor standards, environmental
          protection, or protection for children.
Export-oriented Strategy and Private Sector Role

11. The government wants to make The Gambia an "export-oriented
platform, based on world-class services, transport infrastructure, and
light manufacturing" (ref. para. 11). This strategy has been highly
successful elsewhere, but it also raises some questions.
     ·    Will the EPZ create a niche for Gambia as the location
          where foreign investors wanting to export to WAEMU can set
          up their operations? Why would investors choose The Gambia
          over investing in a WAEMU country directly?
     ·    Is the government planning to create an EPZ or wait for the
          export sector to reach some critical mass on its own?
     ·    Does The Gambia have the requisite levels of social
          development, surplus labor, and political consensus to
          actively favor the export sector over the domestic sector?
     ·    Will the private sector only be "involved" or will they be
                                   3


          the main players once the government has created the EPZ
          environment?
12. EPZ schemes often rely on economic distortions like tax holidays
in order to attract investment. They can also create opposition among
domestic producers by favoring the export sector, and they usually
require a high level of social development -- health and education --
and a large body of surplus labor to succeed. Can Gambia handle these
concerns? If not, an EPZ can do more harm to an economy than good.
There have been plenty of studies of the EPZ model in Asia, and some
of the experience in Mauritius, which can probably help The Gambia
chart this course more carefully. I would appreciate staff comment on
a potential non-lending activity to study successful EPZ experiences
in Africa (eg. Mauritius) and elsewhere (eg. Singapore)?
13. I note that the main area of difference between the Bank and the
Government is the role of the state and the relative roles of the
public and private sectors. The Bank recommends the privatization of
public utilities, while the Government is reluctant to move forward
based on past experience. It seems to me that this is an area where
non-lending services can be used to demonstrate the benefits of an
appropriately sequenced and designed privatization effort. It can
also help to build Government commitment for the process. Will this
type of analysis be conducted during the preparation of the Gateway
Project? How will “lessons learned” from previous efforts be built
into the process?
14. The Gambia is one of the countries in IFC’s Extending the Reach
Initiative. Yet IFC’s portfolio consists of only three projects. The
performance of these projects has been mixed, and the IFC is about to
restructure two of the three projects. I would appreciate staff
comment on the reasons for this mixed performance. What is IFC
specifically doing in the way of advisory services? Does IFC expect
to significantly increase the size of the portfolio in the near
future? If not, why not?
Third Education Sector Project
15. With regard to the Third Education Sector APL, I am encouraged by
the Gambia’s achievements in meeting its targets in the education
sector over the last decade.   I fully support the nation’s goal of
increasing the gross enrollment ratio in basic education to 90 percent
by 2005. However, this goal is very ambitious as the number to be
enrolled is double the number currently enrolled.
16. The Bank’s analysis of the recurrent budget implication of this
program stresses that certain budget cuts are required to finance the
program as envisioned. In the medium term, measures are needed
immediately to achieve a reduction in the number of teachers employed
to meet projected recurrent expenditures of the program. Without such
a reduction in the recruitment of teachers and a rationalization of
their use, enrollment expansion will not be possible in the medium-
term. As stated in the project document, “Immediate action to reduce
excess personnel is a necessary condition for the affordability of the
program.”
17. Moreover, other cuts will be needed to ensure sustainability of
the program: a) freeze expenditures on school lunches, b) eliminate
                                   4


school bus services, c) freeze the expenditure on examinations, and d)
rationalize grant aid to mission schools on a per student basis.
18. It seems to me that these cuts should have been included in the
covenants of the loan in order to ensure program sustainability. It
is especially important that the proposed subsidies for girls and the
poor are funded, and that poorly-targeted subsidies at the basic
education level are eliminated.   I would appreciate staff comment on
this point.

Overriding Reservations
19. While noting the Gambia’s progress and the strengths of the CAS
as a whole, we must conclude by expressing an emphatic caution.
20. I am concerned that this CAS pays insufficient attention to some
larger issues of transparency and good governance that are equally if
not more important in creating the appropriate environment for the
increased foreign direct assistance that the Bank correctly identifies
as a necessary element of the Gambia’s economic strategy.    While the
Bank identifies “slowdown or even backtracking in implementing
reforms” as a possible risk facing the country strategy, the CAS is
insufficiently specific regarding the sources of risk.
21. For example, there are indications that financing from what the
Bank terms “non-traditional donors,” including Taiwan, Libya and
Nigeria, has been used for the completion of large projects without
the sources and amounts of that financing being fully disclosed.   A
policy of full transparency, as well as full accountability, is a
prerequisite to attracting foreign direct investment and should also
be a prerequisite to any Bank lending.
22. We also are seriously concerned about public statements made by
President Jammeh in which he has threatened to summarily dispose of
anyone deemed to be destabilizing to the government, without benefit
of legal process.   It is clear that disrespect for the rule of law,
particularly by high-ranking officials of government, is inconsistent
with legitimate governance.      It constitutes a severe barrier to
investment and, consequently, to economic progress.    In this regard,
the Government’s human rights record is highly troubling.
23. I regret ending on this negative note but, unless improved,
disrespect for international human rights norms will reduce the
Gambia’s economic prospects and overall outlook.
