                         Document of
                      The World Bank




                                                        Report No: 33169

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                 (TF-22573 IDA-31280 TF-54182)

                             ON A

                            CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.0 MILLION (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                    TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                        THE GAMBIA

                            FOR A

            THIRD EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT




                       December 19, 2005

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective 1999)

                              Currency Unit = Dalasi
                                       US$ 1 = D10.607

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1- December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB    African Development Bank Group
ANFED   Adult Non Formal Education Department
ANFEU   Adult Non Formal Education Unit
APL     Adaptable Project Lending
BPMRU   Book Production, Materials and Resources Unit
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCF     Christian Children's Fund
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DfID    Department for International Development
DOSE    Department of State for Education
ECDC    Early Childhood Development and Care
EFA     Education For All
EMIS    Education Management Information System
FIOH    Future In Our Hands
GABECE  Gambian Basic Education Examination
GFSI    Girl-Friendly School Initiative
GTTI    Gambia Technical Training Institute
HTC     Higher Teacher's Certificate
IDA     International Development Association
ISR     Implementation Status Report
KPI     Key Performance Indicator
MLA     Monitoring Learning Achievements
NAT     National Assessment Test
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PHRD    Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PSLCE   Primary School Leaving Certificate Examination
PSR     Project Status Report
PTC     Primary Teacher's Certificate
RIFT    Remedial Training for Female Teachers
TVET    Technical and Vocational Education and Training
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNESCO  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization

UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
WAEC    West Africa Examination Council
WFP     World Food Program



                            Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                          Country Director   Madani M. Tall
                           Sector Manager    Alexandre V. Abrantes
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Benoit Millot / Nathalie Lahire

                                        GAMBIA, THE
                                       Third Education


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Supplementary Table                                                     43
Annex 9. Borrower's evaluation report                                            45

Project ID: P035643                                                  Project Name: Third Education
Team Leader: Benoit Millot                                           TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 16, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Third Education                                          L/C/TF Number: TF-22573; IDA-31280;
                                                                                                     TF-54182
   Country/Department: THE GAMBIA                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (64%); Tertiary education (19%); Central government administration (9%);
                            Secondary education (7%); Adult literacy/non-formal education (1%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Improving labor
                            markets (P); Education for the knowledge economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/10/1997                                     Effective: 03/22/1999                03/22/1999
      Appraisal: 05/21/1998                                        MTR: 05/01/2000                  01/22/2001
      Approval: 09/10/1998                                      Closing: 04/30/2003                 04/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF GAMBIA/MIN OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmod A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre Abrantes                             Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Benoit Millot                                  Rosemary Bellew
ICR Primary Author:             Nathalie Lahire


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
During the last year of implementation, it became a project at risk resulting in an unsatisfactory rating on both
PDO and IP . At project closing, it had once again significantly improved in terms of education management,
which had become a major weakness in the last year. This led to a marginally satisfactory rating at project
closing. Borrower performance is rated as marginally unsatisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context and Background

The Republic of The Gambia on the west coast of Africa is located on two banks of the River Gambia.
With a population of about 1.4 million, it is one of the least populous countries on the African continent.
The Gambia is composed of seven administrative regions. From the education perspective, the country is
divided into six regions, each containing a regional education office whose responsibility it is to coordinate
education in the region. Results from the latest available household survey (1998) show that there are large
disparities in poverty prevalence rates among the regions of The Gambia. The highest levels of extreme
poverty are prevalent in rural areas, with around 50 percent in the Lower and Upper River Divisions. The
North Bank and Central River Divisions has slightly lower rates (around 45 percent), and the rate in the
Western Division is considerably less, at 20 percent (1998 NHPS data taken from the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) 2002).

During the 1993-96 period, which coincided with preparation of the Third Education project (1995), the
Gambian economy suffered from a number of adverse shocks that led to an economic slowdown and loss of
per capita income. The main external and domestic shocks were: a) the reinforcement of border surveillance
by Senegal in August 1993; b) the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 and accompanying policy
reforms in CFA franc zone countries; and c) the political uncertainty and security concerns that followed
the July 1994 coup d'état. Following the presidential and legislative elections in 1997, the government
began to restore economic stability and to normalize relations with donors. Based on data from the National
Human Development Report (1997) and other sources, The Gambia's indicators of human development
were well below those of other countries with comparable levels of income. The development priorities
outlined in the education sector policy framework (1988-2003) were, by 2003, to: a) increase the gross
enrollment rate in grades 1-6 to 75 percent and the transition rate from grade 6-7 to 60 percent; b) lower
the school entry age from 8 to 7; c) develop a broad-based curriculum for basic education (grades 1-9); d)
improve the quality of learning in the basic cycle by training all unqualified teachers and increasing
spending on learning materials; e) increase access to post-secondary vocational training and improve the
coordination of its provision; f) increase opportunities for training out-of-school youth, school dropouts and
adults.

Accomplishments during the first phase of the education policy (covering the period of 1988-1996/97)
include the following:

The gross enrollment ratio in grades 1-6 reached 70 percent (80 percent when the madrassas are included).
Girls' share of the total enrollment increased from 40 percent to 44 percent.
The school entry age was lowered from 8 to 7.
The transition rate from grade 6 to 7 increased from 35 percent to 70 percent.
The 1,200 unqualified teachers in the system at the start of the period were upgraded to qualified teachers.
Textbooks were made available to allow for a set of textbooks to share between two students in grades 1-5
and a set of textbooks was provided on a rental basis for all students in grades 6-9.

To finance the expansion, education's share of the recurrent budget increased from 15 percent in 1990 to
19.4 percent during 1996-97 of total government expenditure (25.8 percent excluding debt service). The
second half of the policy maintained the same priorities and built on the accomplishment of the first half
while aiming at an enrollment target of 90 percent in basic education by 2005. It also pursued issues related
to equity, effectiveness, efficiency, capacity building, and education management, as well as tackling higher



                                                      - 2 -

education issues and sector financing.

Main issues included: a) high population growth, which makes it difficult for service provision to keep
pace, b) limited public revenue and high debt service, which limits the public resources available for
education, and c) high levels of poverty in rural areas, which affects the demand for education.

The government's objectives and strategies were articulated in the following documents: a) the revised
education policy 1988-2003 (updated from the original education policy approved in 1988); b) a draft
master plan and investment program (1998-2005), which describes the priority programs, implementation
schedules, responsibilities, and resource requirements; and c) the public expenditure review (1998), which
lays out policy decisions regarding inter- and intrasectoral financing.

Objectives

The overall objective of the Government third education sector program is to improve access, quality,
equity, and efficiency of the education program particularly for grades 1-9. As stated in the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA), the six objectives of the project, which form the first phase of the borrower's
education sector program for the period 1998/99-2005/06 are to:

1. Increase gross enrollment in educational institutions, particularly basic education.
2. Improve the quality of education and of the educational attainments of those studying.
3. Develop a program for early childhood development and care.
4. Develop a strategy for the provision of vocational and technical education relevant to the demands of the
job market.
5. Facilitate private sector participation in education and training.
6. Strengthen the capacity of education sector management institutions to carry out the program.

Alignment with Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): the project's objectives are in line with the
CAS, which was presented to the Board at the same time as the project. The broad objective of the CAS
was to achieve rapid, broad-based, and sustained increases in gross domestic product (GDP) per capita to
reduce poverty. This would be achieved in collaboration with key development partners and
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) by improving social indicators and reducing poverty through direct
investments in education. In education, the main objectives of the CAS were to: a) expand basic education
parallel with specific efforts to promote female enrollment; b) improve sector management, monitoring, and
evaluation; and c) improve equity, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of public spending. During project
implementation, another CAS (2003) was approved that focused on the first three pillars of the PRSP: a)
improve public expenditure management; b) enhance the equity and quality of service delivery; and c)
promote private sector-led growth.

The project, which was supposed to close on April 30, 2003, was extended twice. The two main reasons for
the first extension were: a) noncompletion of the new education policy (2004-2015), which would only be
finalized at the end of year 2003 and which would be a key input for the preparation of the second
phase,and b) additional time needed to complete: the construction and reception of the remaining
classrooms; the activities for vocational training and technical education component; continued staff
training for sector management; and activities at the Gambia College (80 percent of the credit had been
disbursed by March 2003). A second extension was sought primarily because of the sharp declines in the
exchange rate of the Dalasi in 2003-2004. As a result, all major construction, both primary classrooms and
postsecondary laboratories, were delayed while price adjustments were negotiated. Therefore, additional
time for the completion of these activities was needed (89 percent of the credit had been disbursed by April


                                                      - 3 -

2004).

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The total program costs for Phase 1 were estimated at US$51.3 million-equivalent (US$20 million loan or
SDR equivalent, with the European Union contributing EUR 5 million, Department for International
Development (DFID) contributing 580,000 Pound Sterling, and the government contributing US$4.6
million). The activities described below were financed under IDA unless otherwise indicated in the main
text.

The project comprises 9 components. They were taken from Annex 1 of the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD).

Component 1: Access to Basic Education
(Planned Cost: US$10.4 million-equivalent or 52 percent of total base)*
This component sought to achieve a gross enrollment ratio of 7- to 15-year-olds in grades 1-9 of 77 percent
(excluding madrassas) by the end of 2002, by:
Extending double-shift and multigrade teaching;
Constructing new facilities and rehabilitating of existing facilities;
Establishing linkages between madrassa education and the formal system;
Expanding opportunities for the disabled;
Improving the supply and deployment of teachers;
Providing school lunches (financed by the World Food Program)

Component 2: Girls' Education
(Planned Cost: US$0.4 million-equivalent or 2 percent of total base cost)
This component intended to increase girls' enrollment and retention in grades 1-12 through:
A scholarship scheme and flexible fee schedules;
Development of a supportive learning environment;
A community and teacher mobilization program;
An increase in the proportion of female teachers.

Component 3: Basic Education Quality
(Planned Cost: US$2.2 million-equivalent or 11 percent of total base cost)
This component aimed to improve the quality of basic education and its relevance to the sociocultural and
economic needs of the country by:
Reforming the curriculum for grades 1-9;
Ensuring that each child has access to a complete set of textbooks for each grade;
Providing an adequate supply of teaching and learning materials that match the curriculum;
Reorganizing the production capacity and potential of Book Production and Materials Resource Unit
(BPMRU);
Revising the system of assessment and examination;
Enhancing monitoring and evaluation capacity;
Expanding the provision of Inservice Training (INSET);
Expanding the coverage of guidance and counseling and school library servicesReintroducing school
broadcasting services.




                                                     - 4 -

Component 4: Early Childhood Development and Care
(Planned Cost: US$ 0.0 million-equivalent or 0 percent of total base cost)
This component sought to ensure that the quality of Early Childhood Development and Care (ECDC) is
enhanced and that the number of children attending preschool, particularly in rural communities, is
increased by:
Reviewing operational policy guidelines offering training for ECDC providers;
Promoting community-based and -managed programs.
(This component was implemented by UNICEF).

Component 5: Secondary Education
(Planned Cost: US$ 1.0 million-equivalent or 5 percent of total base cost)
This component aimed to increase the gross enrollment in grades 10-12 for those ages 16-18 years, and
improve the quality of senior secondary education by:
Extending double-shift teaching;
Offering scholarship incentives for girls and constructing new facilities;
Increasing the number of qualified and trained Gambian teachers;
Introducing computer technology and literacy programs.

Component 6: Vocational and Technical Education
(Planned Cost: US$ 0.2 million-equivalent or 1 percent of total base cost)
This component sought to increase access to post-school vocational education and technical education in
The Gambia by:
Expanding skills training centers in rural areas;
Upgrading the facilities at the Gambia Technical Training Institute and strengthening capacity.

Component 7: University Education
(Planned Cost: US$ 0.6 million equivalent or 3 percent of total base cost)
This component intended to establish a University of The Gambia with capacity for about 2,000 students in
identified priority programs. The strategy provides for gradual development of the three existing tertiary
institutions--Gambia College, Gambia Technical Training Institute, and Management Development
Institute--to offer degree-level courses, while maintaining the courses and programs of their earlier
mandates.

Component 8: Adult Education/Functional Literacy Program
(Planned Cost: US$ 0.2 million-equivalent or 1 percent of total base cost)
This component aimed to increase the adult literacy rate by expanding the provision of literacy facilities
through a strategy of government and private sector partnership.

Component 9: Capacity Building for Sector Management
(Planned Cost: US$ 1.6 million-equivalent or 9 percent of total base cost)
This component sought to enhance the performance of the education sector by:
Restructuring the Department of State for Education (DOSE);
Implementing an appraisal system for all staff;
Strengthening the capacity of regional education offices;
Establishing a comprehensive management and information system;
Strengthening the project's Coordination Unit.

* Total base refers to the overall credit amount (US$20 million).




                                                       - 5 -

3.4 Revised Components:
None of the components were revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall the quality at entry at the ICR was Satisfactory

The preparation process was exemplary. Despite some lack of ownership at the beginning, project
preparation revolved around a consultative process between the government and its partners. The project
was the first adaptable program lending (APL) in the education sector within the Africa region. This
lending instrument was chosen because:

a) The program is sectorwide in scope, encompassing all levels of education, with clear priority given to
basic education and to certain priority programs within the other levels of education.
b) It contains a mix of well-defined overall objectives, policies, and strategies but requires further
refinements of these, as well as additional conceptual work, planning, programming, and budgeting (most
notably in Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) and higher education.
c) Medium- and long-term public expenditure plans have been estimated taking into account the
macroeconomic framework and the PFP agreements with the International Monetary Fund.

Elements that were missing included: a) strong donor coordination by the DOSE; b) strong management,
monitoring, and evaluation capacity; c) common implementation arrangements across development
partners; and d) clearly defined support by all other development partners due in part to the limited number
of bilateral and multilateral partners interested in supporting the sector. Consequently, these shortcomings
were addressed during project preparation.

The two previous education projects concentrated on increasing access to primary education. In addition to
maintaining this objective, the project supported the government policy to provide nine years of basic
education. The choice of the instrument was therefore appropriate. The preparation process started in 1995.
The DOSE began to define the third education sector program in September 1995. The World Bank and the
government collaborated to finalize the policy framework and the master plan. Based on the Bank's
request, the DOSE officially appointed a coordinator and a core team for the preparation work. Technical
expertise was provided in the design of the educational program. The program was developed through both
analytical and consultative processes involving key stakeholders: teachers, headmasters, principals, parents,
and development partners. The analyses underpinning the identification of issues, choice of strategies, and
objectives were contained in household surveys, preparation studies, and other sector work carried out. PPF
was in the amount of US$600,000. The project's development goals as stated in the DCA were relevant
and in alignment with the government's national education policy. The project design was appropriate but
complex and ambitious in terms of targets and large range of activities.

The credit was approved on September 10, 1998; signed on September 22, 1998; and effective on March
22, 1999. The first disbursement was made in April 1999. As indicated in the PAD, around 60 percent of
project expenditures were scheduled for the first two years of the project. This was unrealistic, given the
large number of classrooms that had to be constructed and the limited capacity of the DOSE/Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), Gamworks (construction management entity) and the two NGOs in charge of
school construction.

Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Performance Indicators
(KPIs)
There are inconsistencies between the PAD (Annex 1) and the DCA with regard to project objectives and



                                                       - 6 -

their connection with the nine project components (see Annex 8, table 1). The fact that the PDOs in the
PAD were categorized under key performance indicators complicated the monitoring and evaluation, with
the result that most Project Status Reports (PSRs) retained these development objectives as indicators.
Other sources of information regarding project objectives are the PSR and the Implementation Status
Reports (ISRs). PSR 1 through 7 proposed as project objectives: supporting implementation of the second
half of the government's Education Sector Policy Framework (1988-2005) and its accompanying
investment program as stated under "Program purpose and development objectives" (PAD, p.3). PSR 8
until 14 used the objectives from the DCA. The "annual monitoring indicators" (16) as listed in Annex 4 of
the PAD are identical to the ones in the DCA, but Annex 4 also comprises the triggers to move from phase
1 to phase 2. The components are listed in the PAD under program purpose and development objectives,
Annex 1 and Annex 2 (description of activities for the two phases), which have a few discrepencies with
each other but overall remain comprehensive.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project development outcomes outlined in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were used to
determine whether the project had achieved its objectives.

The project is rated Marginally Satisfactory on achievement of its objectives based on the outcomes
described below.

Objective: Increased access to education at all levels of education from grade 1-12 and particularly
for basic education as measured by increased enrollment rates, with dramatic surges in girls'
participation.

Outcome: Over the period 1998-2005, project interventions contributed to an increase in gross enrollment
in lower basic education (grades 1-6) from 73 percent in 1998-99 (80 percent and 67 percent for boys and
girls, respectively), to 76 percent in 2004-05 (73 percent and 79 percent for boys and girls, respectively). In
upper basic (grades 7-9), the gross enrollment rate went from 40 percent overall in 1998-99 (48 percent
and 32 percent for boys and girls, respectively) to 65 percent in 2004-05 (66 percent and 65 percent for
boys and girls, respectively). The cohort primary completion rate in 2003 rose to 80 percent. At the senior
secondary level, gross enrollment rose from 16 percent in 1998-99 (21 percent and 11 percent for boys and
girls, respectively) to 28 percent in 2004-05 (33 percent and 24 percent for boys and girls respectively).
Despite a slow start, the new classrooms have helped The Gambia to approach its goal toward universal
primary education.




                                                     - 7 -

Table: Enrollment rates from 1991-2005 disaggregated by level and gender



 0.9



 0.8



 0.7

                                                                                                                          GER

 0.6                                                                                                                        Grade 1 to 6

                                                                                                                            Female

 0.5                                                                                                                        Male

                                                                                                                            Grade 7 to 9

                                                                                                                            Female
 0.4                                                                                                                        Male

                                                                                                                           Grade 1 to 9

 0.3                                                                                                                       Female

                                                                                                                           Male

                                                                                                                          Grade 10 to 12
 0.2
                                                                                                                          Female

                                                                                                                          Male
 0.1



   0

                                                                                                           a/       b/
    1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 1998/99          2000/01 2001/02 2002/03
                                                                   1999/2000                        2003/04  2004/05



                                                                      I_____project cycle_______I



Objective: Development of an Early Childhood Development and Care program as measured by the
realization of an ECDC strategy, and the recent formulation of a national early child development
policy framework using a multisectoral approach including heath, nutrition, and agriculture.

Outcome: Funded by UNICEF, an ECDC strategy was developed in 2004. A national early child
development policy framework has recently been drafted by a multisectoral working group comprising
government officials responsible for heath, nutrition, and agriculture, supported by an international
consultant. The framework is awaiting the approval of the cabinet.

Objective: Development of a strategy for the provision of vocational and technical education as
measured by the cabinet's enactment of the policy.




                                                                   - 8 -

Outcome: After significant delays, a TVET policy was developed and approved by the cabinet in 2003.
Although a tracer study of the Gambia Technical Training Institute had been planned under the project,
this activity has not been completed. Terms of Reference have been provided and found acceptable to the
Bank. The study is being implemented under the Japanese-financed PHRD grant.

Objective: Strengthened private sector participation in education and training as measured by the
management mechanism used at the secondary level.

Outcome: The Gambia has established strong public-private partnerships in secondary education. More
than 90 percent of all senior secondary schools are managed by the private sector ,with more than 50
percent of them receiving financing from the government (grant-aided schools). Most new secondary
schools that are not purely private are initially built and managed by the government, but within the first
two to three years their management is handed over to an independent board. The TVET policy envisages
full participation of the private sector in all aspects of the training process.

Objective: Improved inputs for the strengthening of education quality as measured by improved
textbook/student ratios in basic education; revision of the curriculum for grades 1-4; availability of
books; and an increase in qualified teachers in the system.

Outcome: Although the project was successful in strengthening the quality inputs, its contribution to the
improvement of student academic outcomes could not be measured. Schools benefited from an increase in
the supply of textbooks, and The Gambia College profited from newly developed distance learning
materials. A new curriculum for grades 1- 4 has been developed, and teachers were trained. The biggest
challenge in The Gambia is to attract qualified teachers and retain them in the system, especially given their
very low salaries. Nevertheless, Gambia College significantly enhanced its intake of Primary Teachers'
Certificate (PTC) and Higher Teachers' Certificate (HTC) over the past five years, resulting in an increase
of 1,024 qualified PTC teachers and 1,034 HTC in the system. An area of concern is the poor academic
standing of new PTC's entrants, with many students falling in the 30-40 percent achievement range. In
terms of academic outcomes, the standardized National Assessment Test (NAT) shows that in all core
subjects including Math, English, and Science, a maximum of 10 percent of grade 3 and 5 students
reached the mastery level of 73 percent. Results from UNESCO'S Monitoring Learning Achievements
(MLA, 2000) demonstrate that 46 percent of students reached the passing minimum mark (40 percent) in
the core subjects. The Gambian Basic Education Examination (GABECE), which is taken at the end of 9th
grade, yields similar outcomes.

Objective: Strengthen the capacity of the education sector management institutions to carry out the
program.

Outcome: Weakened education management , as measured by the constant reorganization of the DOSE
and high mobility and attrition of staff, hampered the efficiency of the sector over the project cycle DOSE
was not able to retain well-trained and qualified staff, including key personnel from DOSE itself and from
PCU. This had serious implications for the project that resulted in unsatisfactory performance during the
last year of implementation. During the last year of the project, DOSE was reorganized completely, and a
new Secretary of State for Education was appointed. At the time this ICR was written, strong leadership in
the senior management was in evidence, and The Gambia is in a better position to move forward with the
next education project.


4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                        - 9 -

The components described in Annex 1 (PAD) were used to determine whether the outputs by components
were achieved.

Component 1: Access to Basic Education
ICR rating: Satisfactory
Despite delays in credit effectiveness, this component exceeded the targets set at appraisal. The majority of
the 1,015 classrooms were constructed by Gamworks. Two NGOs, the Christian Children's Fund (CCF)
and Future in our Hands (FIOH), as well as PCU were also involved in construction of classrooms,
although in a lesser capacity given their limitations.

         Implementation agency                       Share of classrooms
                                                     built
       GamWorks                                      72%
       Christian Children's Fund (CCF)               10%
       Future in our Hands                           7 %
       PCU                                           11%

1.1 Extension of double-shift and multigrade teaching
Between 1998 and 2001, the proportion of double-shift classes in the upper basic cycle increased from 30
to 33 percent. At project closing, it had again stabilized at 30 percent as a result of the increased
recruitment of qualified teachers. The target of 40 percent in the PAD (Annex 1) was not achieved. At the
lower basic level, the target was met. The proportion of double-shift classes increased from 18 percent in
1998 to 25 percent in 2005, reaching the target set in the PAD. Multigrade teaching has been expanded and
is being practiced in a total of 87 schools, surpassing the target of 85 schools. Average student teacher
ratios have increased from 33:1 in 1998-99 to 38:1 in 2005 at the lower basic cycle (grades 1-6).
Consequently, the targets of 40:1 (DCA) and 45:1 (PAD) were not met. At the upper basic cycle (grades
7-9), the ratios decreased from 36:1 in 1998-99 to 28:1 in 2005. The target of 36:1 in the PAD has not
been met. The reason for the reduction at the upper basic level is the increased number of teachers, which
has progressed dramatically from 967 teachers in 1998 to 2,337 in the system in 2005.

1.2. New construction and rehabilitation of existing facilities
Since project inception, approximately 1,015 classrooms were completed, resulting in an average annual
construction volume of 170 classrooms. In early 2005, an IDA consultant assessed the quality of the
classrooms constructed during the first phase. An evaluation of a sample of 24 schools visited rated the
quality of classroom construction as generally fair to poor. In addition, there were some problems with the
Brufut school site where the land ownership was in dispute. The quality and progress monitoring by the
DOSE regional construction monitors was not effective in informing management promptly about delays,
defects, and future problems or in taking corrective measures accordingly. In cases where classrooms were
constructed under framework agreements with NGOs (CCF and FIOH), no payments were withheld,
leaving no leverage to enforce corrective action if defects occurred during the maintenance period.

Some cases of very good quality were found for classroom blocks constructed by the NGO Future in our
Hands (FIOH). The layout, in particular for the office store, and some construction details indicated a good
awareness and use of local skills and materials. Attention had also been given to user training for minor
maintenance and repairs. The downside of this approach was the NGO's relatively limited capacity in
terms of the classrooms it could construct per year.

1.3 Establishment of linkages between madrassa education and the formal system



                                                     - 10 -

At project closing, 138 madrassas (lower basic schools) were registered under the secretariat located within
the Basic Education Directorate. A registered madrassa is being defined as following the official
curriculum. A total of 100 English teachers were trained under the credit and posted into registered
madrassas, meeting the target set.

1.4 Expansion of opportunities for the disabled
Although the project did not finance any activities under this subcomponent, the Bank team, in alignment
with the government's national policy, supported the inclusion of students with disabilities in the regular
classroom to the greatest extent possible. In 50 lower and upper basic schools, school heads and deputies
(total of two per school) received training financed by UNICEF. There was, however, a lack of school
materials available to meet the immediate needs of students with disabilities.

1.5 Improvement in the supply and deployment of teachers
To address the acute shortage of qualified teachers, reduce dependence on untrained teachers, and cut costs,
the two-year college-based Primary Teaching Certificate program was reduced in 1999 to a one-year
in-college and two-year school-based training. Although a target was set in the DCA and in the PAD for
increasing the capacity of Gambia College, the inconsistencies mentioned above are apparent here, as well.

                 Source                            Indicators
                DCA                                Increase intake from 120 in
                                                   1997/98 to 300 by 2001/02
                PAD (Annex 1)                      Average of 250 new PTC and
                                                   120 new HTC
                PAD (trigger to move to phase 2) 300 PTC and 150 HTC
                                                   annually

Gambia College did not regularly reach the intake targets established under the project. The College
recruited only 170 PTCs in 2003/04, which was 130 short of the 300 agreed to in the DCA, and less than
half of the projected 370 new entrants in the PAD. The situation was due to the inadequate number of
unqualified PTC applicants and to insufficient funding to meet the cost of student stipends. The target of
increasing female recruitment at Gambia College's School of Education to 40 percent of total intake was
achieved. The planned 60 days' remedial training to be offered to 100 female teachers though the Remedial
Training for Female Teachers (RIFT) program was also achieved, reaching 42 percent at the PTC level and
20 percent at the HTC level. However, it was observed that RIFT had been discontinued after the project
closed because of a lack of funding. The remedial training seems therefore not sustainable.

In order to accommodate the rising student intake, the project supported the construction and equipment of
staff offices, eight 8 lecture rooms, and a computer lab, as well as expansion of the library. The project
financed the revision of the distance education materials, which was executed by the Institute of Education
in London. Gambia College staff were trained in the use of the multigrade and double-shift modules.

1.6. Provision of school lunches
This subcomponent was financed under the World Food Program (WFP). The first phase of the project
aimed at providing school meals to about 60,000 children in 268 schools. Despite efforts to increase the
number of schools with canteens or school farms and gardens, problems arose for two reasons. First, the
level of accountability and transparency in the management of school canteens was called into question.
Second, there were times when beneficiaries did not receive the expected help from the communities. With
the support of WFP, 127,993 students in 339 schools had access to school feeding. The foods included rice,



                                                    - 11 -

iodized salt, vegetable oil, and pulses. The program, which covered all the lower basic schools, is expected
to continue until 2007, after which WFP has to submit a new proposal to FAO. Sustainability is therefore
not certain.

Component 2: Girls' Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The project was successful in increasing the enrollment and retention and of girls in schools. Under the
Girl-Friendly School Initiative (GFSI), 50 schools were designated girl-friendly schools providing resources
on condition that the community and school collaborate to assure the attendance of more girls. RIFT at the
Gambia College helped attract and keep female trainee-teachers in the College, significantly increasing the
number of female teachers at primary, and modestly increasing the number of female teachers in secondary
schools. The tremendous increase in girls' enrollment is primarily attributed to positive nondiscrimination
initiatives, and strategies implemented by the girls' education unit of DOSE, including a scholarship
scheme for girls, training for teachers, advocacy and social mobilization, and community empowerment
activities. A sexual harassment policy has also been enacted.

Analysis by Subcomponent

2.1. A scholarship scheme and flexible fee schedules
At the secondary level, a scholarship trust fund was set up to encourage the retention of girls by lowering
the direct costs to parents. The project has been successful in implementing and operationalizing the girls'
education scholarship scheme since 2000. The latest data (2004) indicate that 13,859 girls in junior
secondary schools (upper basic level) and 2,624 girls in senior secondary schools received scholarships.
This resulted in a sharp increase in the girls' share of enrollment in upper basic and secondary school in
education regions 4, 5, and 6. At the upper basic level, they went respectively from 32, 34, and 32 percent
in 1998-99 to 45, 46, and 45 percent in 2004-05. At the senior secondary level, they rose from 25, 23, and
33 percent in 1998-99 to 44, 36, and 38 percent in 2004-05. The direct impact of these initiatives was felt
in the girls' enrollment in both upper basic and senior secondary, which rose from 32 percent in 1998-99 to
65 percent in 2004-05 at the upper basic level and 11 percent in 1998-99 to 24 percent in 2004-05 at the
senior secondary level. Although these results are very encouraging, concerns arise when noting the
decrease in boys' enrollment since 2001 at the lower basic level. One possible that can be made with
regard to this particular outcome is that some parents might choose to send only one child to school. Prior
to the scholarship scheme, boys were favored; however, now it seems more rational to parents to send girls
only. It will be important to examine this issue during the next phase.

2.2. The development of a supportive learning environment
Since 1997, textbooks have been revised to discard gender-biased content and to include more
gender-aware material. Anti-sexual harassment policies have been developed to prevent and sanction the
mistreatment and exploitation of girls in the school environment. An awareness manual was produced to
educate teachers, students, school officials, and communities about the consequences of such practices on
girls' performance and attainment. The Girl-Friendly School Initiative has also helped in this regard.

2.3. A community and teacher sensitization program
The "Big Bang" campaign targeted parents and communities in the rural areas where girls' enrollment rates
were lowest, and sensitized communities with regard to the importance of educating girls. An annual career
day was organized to encourage girls to emulate professional adult women role models. Mothers' clubs are
an integral part of the GFSI, and their members help all girls attend and remain in school. The clubs also
ensured that there was active community participation in the management of village schools.




                                                      - 12 -

2.4. An increase in the proportion of female teachers in schools
In 1998-99, fewer than 50 women were admitted into the Primary Teacher Certificate program; by
2004-05, this number had increased to 157. The number of female entrants to the Higher Teacher
certificate program was even lower, with 20 in 1998-99; by 2004-05, it had reached 54. This was partly
possible thanks to the RIFT, in which female candidates with lower marks at the college entrance
examination must participate after admission to the college in order to be brought up to a similar
performance level as their counterparts. Although they come in with lower marks, they are given the same
exit test.

Component 3: Quality and Relevance of Basic Education
ICR Rating: Marginally satisfactory
The project was successful in many subcomponents but the impact on improving the quality of learning can
not measured at this point given that progress can only be evaluated over a longer period. The project was
successful in developing a thematic curriculum for grades 1-4; providing a free set of textbooks for each
student in grades 1-6 as well as some learning materials and developing a standardized national assessment
test and learning achievement targets.Thus, this component is rated marginally satisfactory.

Analysis by Subcomponent

3.1. Reforming the curriculum for grades 1-9
This subcomponent has only been partly achieved. The revision of curricula for grades 1-4 has been
completed, and grade 5 is in the process of being revised. The revision of textbooks and syllabuses for all
subjects for these grades, as well as the training of teachers to use the revised curriculum, has been
fulfilled. The coordinator of the subject area is the main person responsible for the curriculum design, but a
panel composed of senior teachers is recruited on a contract basis to provide input on content and
methodology. Capacity has been seriously lacking in curriculum studies. Although the IDA team
recommended the provision of technical assistance, it has never been undertaken.

3.2. Ensuring that each child has access to a complete set of textbooks
At the end of the project, the vast majority of grade 1-6 students had a full set of textbooks. In terms of
reprinting of textbooks and teacher guides, the project financed the reprinting of English, Mathematics,
Science, and Social and Environmental Studies for grades 1-9 as well as student books for Islamic studies
for grades 3-4. Overall, 1,002,356 textbooks and teacher guides were purchased and delivered. Although
the outcomes are positive, significant delays hampered the effective delivery of some of these materials. Lot
III, which included textbooks for grade 8, was delayed in 2000 as a result of the need for additional
information that would clarify a discrepancy between the recorded and read-out information at the opening
session. The issues were resolved by the PCU's Project Manager. The book rental scheme for grades 7-9
has seen many difficulties, especially at the beginning of the project. In 2002, plans included the
abolishment of the scheme, and supervision reports noted that DOSE had taken the initiative to abolish
them because it excluded more and more students because of the inability or willingness of parents to pay
an annual rental fee of D150 (approximately US$5.00). The rental recovery rates varied across regions and
by year. The ICR mission found out that the rental scheme had been continued for upper basic, and
recovery rates had improved significantly, primarily because of the girl's scholarship scheme.

Table: Recovery rate of textbook rental fees throughout the project cycle and by region

Region         1998/99        1999/00         2000/01        2001/02        2002/03        2003/04
1 Banjul      92%             107%            42%            43%            100%           50.2%



                                                      - 13 -

2 Lower        68%             84%            63%            55%             67%           25.9%
River
3 Central      34%             30%            22%            79%             100%          100%
River
4 North        83%             46%            8%             100%            100%          100%
Bank
5 Upper        95%             133%           21%            100%            100%          100%
River
6 Western 14%                  13%            4%             100%            100%          100%
Total           67%            73%            37%            69%             93%           60%



3.3 Providing an adequate supply of teaching/learning materials
In addition to the supply of textbooks purchased under the credit, a large number of library corner books
were financed under the project, including 357 different titles.

3.4 Reorganizing the production capacity and potential of the Book Production and Materials Resource
Unit
All activities related to the BPMRU equipment and training of staff have been executed. At the preparation
stage, discussions were held with regard to the possibility of reviewing BPMRU status, with the intention
of privatizing its operations or having it function more as a commercial enterprise. Its current role is to
print support materials, such as records forms, and distribute imported textbooks to schools. It is also in
charge of managing the textbook recovery revolving fund. BPMRU has recently merged with the National
Printing Cooperation, enabling the new entity to increase its printing capacity. Under the project, training
has been financed in the areas of copyediting of support materials, machine maintenance, and desktop
publishing.

3.5 Revising the system of assessment and examinations
Significant progress was made in this subcomponent. In order to reduce the cost of examinations, the grade
6 school leaving certification exam (PSLCE) was phased out, and the Gambia Basic Education Cycle
Examination (GABECE), which is taken at the end of grade 9, was kept as the exit exam from the basic
cycle. The phasing out of the PSLCE was delayed by a year because of delays in construction of upper
basic classrooms. This uninterrupted progression from grade 6 to 7 will have serious implications for the
future capacity of the system if the transition rates are to be maintained. (Note: "automatic promotion"
implies that all students pass regardless of their grades). The National Assessment Test (NAT) was
developed and introduced in grades 3 and 5. Carried out by the West Africa Examination Council
(WAEC), it measures learning achievements in Mathematics, English, Social and Environmental Studies,
and General Science. Learning achievement targets were developed, and teachers were trained in using
these targets. Reports show that in all subjects, at least 90 percent of students did not reach the mastery
level of 73 percent on all items. IDA financed an international consultant to evaluate this subcomponent
during the last year of implementation.

The reliability and validity of the test was seriously called into question. As a conclusion of the
consultancy, it was noted that the tests administered did not fully meet the basic purpose of an assessment,
which is to provide policy-makers and decision-makers with relevant and reliable information about the
actual state of the education system, its achievements, and its problems. The staff in the Examination Unit
lacks the capacity to perform their job adequately. The next phase should seriously address this issue.




                                                      - 14 -

Component 4: Early Childhood Development and Care
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
An ECDC strategy has been developed and approximately 300 facilitators have been trained by the Gambia
College. This certificate training was offered during the summer over a period of three years, with three
cohorts being trained during one summer. Most of these activities were financed by UNICEF with support
from UNESCO. Partnerships between ECDC providers were strengthened through the creation of a
multisectoral working group chaired by the Department of Community Development with participation
from DOSE. The multisectoral working group drafted a national early child development policy framework
that aims to ensure that ECDC programs follow an integrated approach, in line with the holistic
development of children. The group creates partnerships between government and other partners (families,
civil society organizations, and so forth) in order to expand and improve ECDC provision and secure
adequate financial provision for the implementation of the policy.

Component 5: Secondary Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The project financed the creation of 9 new public secondary schools, leading to a total of 35 secondary
schools in The Gambia, which exceeded the target of 30 by 2002. The enrollment fees have been reduced
from 150 to 100 Dalasis per term. The increase in the number of schools and the reduction of fees led to
higher enrollments, especially of girls (see Component 2). The gross enrollment rate in senior secondary
education rose from 16 percent in 1998-99 to 28 percent in 2004-05 reaching the target of 28 percent set in
the PAD. The transition rate from basic to secondary education increased to 52 percent surpassing the
target by 2 percent. Computer programs have been introduced in all government schools, meeting the target
set in the DCA and PAD. An attempt to supply Gambian secondary schools with 500 computers and
accessories was initiated in 2002, but because there were some problems with procurement, the Bank did
not finance the computers as planned. Under the project, 126 students (111 male and 15 female) completed
the Bachelor of Education program offered at the university, and the majority of them have been recruited
as secondary teachers. Currently, a new cohort of 55 students (54 male and 1 female) enrolled in the
program. Given the large gender disparity, it will be important to recruit more female students into the
program in future years.




                                                      - 15 -

Component 6: Technical and Vocational Education
ICR Rating: Marginally Satisfactory
The primary objective of this component was the development of a comprehensive training policy for the
country although some civil works had been planned under the project (eight classrooms, three laboratories,
and one computer laboratory). The policy was developed and approved although there were significant
delays. These in turn led to the cancellation of the planned civil works, which were contingent upon the
approval of the policy. The tracer study of TVET graduates planned under the project was not undertaken
during the 1999-2005 period, but will be carried out under the PHRD grant before the appraisal of the
next project.

Component 7: University Education
ICR rating: Satisfactory
The bill for establishing the University of The Gambia was enacted into law in March 1999, and the
university began operations in October 1999. The main activity planned under the credit, the corporate or
strategic plan, was begun only in December 2004 after delays in the selection of the consultant. Three
months before closing date, a strategic plan was drafted in a cooperative homegrown process with technical
assistance provided by the IDA team. At the ICR stage, the strategic and financial plans were completed,
and plans are in place to share them with all major stakeholders. Under the project, 120 reference books
have been purchased for the university library.

Component 8: Nonformal Education
ICR rating: Unsatisfactory
During the first phase, the Adult Non Formal Education Department (ANFED) was redesigned as a smaller
Adult Non Formal Education Unit (ANFEU) within the Directorate of Basic Education. Since 1999, most
of the staff members have been redeployed (reaching an all-time low in 2003, when only one part-time
employee was following up on NFE at the central level), resulting in the need to rebuild entirely the unit at
the central level. Currently, it still needs more human resources and capacity building. The IDA project
financed US$0.2 million for this component; however, because of redeployment and the restructuring of the
ANFED, this component was delayed and the activities planned did not take place. This is happening
within the context of a subsector where there is little donor interest and where the ongoing program has not
been able to address the literacy challenges. In 2003, the DOSE, with some World Bank support, began
designing a new nonformal education component to be started in the second phase of the project.

Component 9: Education Sector Management
ICR rating: Marginally Satisfactory
Most of the activities planned under the project have been implemented, although the results are mixed.
Uneven progress toward attaining outcomes during project implementation, and serious deterioration in
education management and data availability during the last year of the project, led to an Unsatisfactory
rating in the last IDA mission report prior to project closing. During the last month of implementation and
at the ICR stage, the situation had improved.

9.1 Restructuring the Department of State for Education
The DOSE was restructured throughout the project, and two years into implementation the Bank team
observed improved capacity. During project preparation, overall weaknesses were identified in
management, planning, and monitoring and evaluation. The project aimed to address these through the
strengthening of planning, monitoring, evaluation, and management capacities. In addition, the project
aimed to address capacity-building shortcomings through a comprehensive training program targeting



                                                      - 16 -

organization, leadership and management, financial resources, human resources, material resources, and
practices. Under the project, 53 staff from the department were trained: 1 Ph.D, 11 Masters of Education,
16 Masters of Arts, 2 Bachelors of Education, 9 Bachelors of Philosophy, 12 Bachelors of Science, 1
Higher National Diploma recipient, and 1 technician. Attrition of staff sent for training was minimal.

9.2. Implementing an appraisal system for all staff
A staff performance appraisal system was designed, and DOSE staff at the regional offices received
training in the preparation for effective operation. A nationwide staff performance appraisal system (SPAS)
was introduced in 2002 to improve education service productivity and efficiency. The objectives of this
system were to enable policy makers and managers to make well-informed decisions on how to upgrade the
education personnel effectively, especially teachers and head teachers. It was tried out for one year but
discontinued because of logistical and financial reasons.

9.3. Strengthening the capacity of regional education offices
At mid-term review, all directorates at DOSE and regional offices had been connected to the Internet.
Though this activity was highly valued, the frequent power shortages were a problem. The problem was not
addressed during project implementation, although the EFA-Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund financed
the installation of generators at DOSE and in the regional offices in 2005. The regional education offices
have been restructured into regional directorates to ensure proper coordination of the sector program at the
regional level. Each regional directorate comprises a regional director assisted by a principal education
officer, a senior education officer, a Standard and Quality Assurance (SQAD) officer, a regional training
officer, a school feeding program coordinator, a madrassa focal point, a construction monitor and, more
recently, a cluster monitor responsible for monitoring education activities. Despite their new status, the
regional directorates do not have their own budgets to allow some level of expenditure control and output
monitoring. Major shortcomings are the lack of proper school monitoring and supervision by the regional
directorate. Each director has a master's degree, in addition to which the vast majority of current regional
directors and heads of directorates in DOSE received a three-week training course at Harvard University in
education management.

9.4. Establishing a comprehensive management information system
By mid-2001, the Education Management Information System (EMIS) was set up, fully staffed, and
operational, with technical assistance provided by DfID. Statistical data were available, and errors were
addressed in a timely fashion. In an evaluation carried out by DfID, concerns were expressed that the
achievements accomplished by the project in the areas of EMIS and IT would not be sustainable in the
medium to long term because of problems related to management, finance, and staffing. These concerns
turned out to be valid after the DfID funding ran out. In the last two years of project implementation, data
collection was incomplete, and at the closing of the project, valid data were not available after 2002,
although the data had been collected. At the ICR stage, a complete headcount of students and personnel had
been completed and was being entered in the system. Despite these improvements, the problems of
sustainability still remain.




                                                     - 17 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
see Annex 3

4.4 Financial rate of return:
see Annex 3

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest
The project has contributed to institutional development in the education sector, though some of the
achievements are fragile. Fifty-three fellowships financed under the project have enhanced capacity in the
sector, ranging from bachelor degrees up to Ph.D. degrees in fields such as financial management,
construction, planning, educational management and administration, economic policy and management, and
curriculum development. Of the 53 fellowships, 3 are still ongoing and 3 retired. The remaining 47 returned
to the DOSE or are involved in teaching at the secondary or higher education levels. This means more than
88 percent of all trainees have returned to the sector, a rate rarely found in other IDA projects. Training has
been provided to senior management in education management, procurement, financial management, and
multigrade teaching. Study tours to neighboring countries have also taken place. Throughout the project,
DOSE was unable to retain key managers in both the Department and the PCU. This had serious
implications for the project, resulting in a decline in implementation progress in the last year before project
closing. In the last few months of implementation, DOSE had a new Secretary of State, who reorganized
the Department and allowed The Gambia to have the readiness to move forward with the next education
project. Curriculum revision has been lengthy, with delays at several points related to both the availability
of funds and the changing organizational structures, with curriculum moving between DOSE and Gambia
College, with or without in-service training, at different points during project implementation. At the ICR
stage, it was once again merged with the Inservice Training Unit directly under the DOSE.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Dispute on sites
Construction of the 12 classrooms and 2 toilet blocks in Brufut was delayed because the site was in
dispute.

Costs of construction materials
During the project implementation, the Dalasi-dollar exchange rate fluctuated significantly, leading to a
devaluation of the Dalasi against the dollar (at project inception the exchange rate was US1$ = D10 and at
the completion, US$1 = D28). As a result, the price of construction materials increased dramatically;
consequently, price adjustments had to be made resulting in delays in construction completion.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Decrease in the share of the government budget slated for education
Although education commands the largest budget in all the Departments of State in The Gambia, recurrent
expenditures in education have continued to decrease since the inception of the project. Government
expenditures in education as a share of recurrent expenditures (including debt service) decreased from 17
percent in 1999 to 10 percent in 2004. Recent figures show that it rose again in 2005.

Instability of DOSE senior management staff and PCU staff
Staff attrition and the movement of heads of directorates and units destabilized the rhythm of work in the



                                                      - 18 -

DOSE. In the last two years of project implementation, the project had six heads of the Planning
Directorate and three heads of the Human Resources Department. Some directorates (Basic Education and
Secondary Education) were without a head for some portion of the project. With the high mobility and
reshuffling of senior managers in DOSE, it seems unlikely that senior managers heading the units had the
appropriate training and experience. This had a negative impact on project implementation at the end of the
project cycle. The PCU, too, was unable to attract and keep qualified personnel, in large part because of
the growing gap between private sector salaries and those offered at PCU.

Shift of priority from planned civil works activities.
The most significant change was in the construction program for GTTI, which was contingent upon the
approval of the TVET policy. Given its significant delay, the activities planned had to be canceled one year
before the closing date given that 93 percent of the credit was already disbursed. Two reallocations took
place throughout the project cycle, adding unallocated funds for classroom construction at the basic level
and surpassing the target of 942 classrooms by 8 percent. This decision can be assessed as appropriate and
allows The Gambia to be on track to reach EFA on time.

Reliability and availability of data
Reliability and availability of data were issues, making it difficult for the Bank's team to have an accurate
picture of the project outcomes.

The shift of the curriculum and in-service units from the department to the Gambia College
At the start of the project, the curriculum and in-service training units were separately moved to the
Gambia College. This was of concern because of the important role that the DOSE directorates played in
the development of curricula. However, since the DOSE preferred this arrangement, IDA agreed that the
government would enter in a contractual relationship with the college to provide these services, while the
DOSE would retain management control. Both of these units have been grossly understaffed and
underfunded, hampering significantly their capacity to deliver. At the end of the project, the curriculum and
in-service units were merged again into one unit (CREDIT) and were relocated to DOSE.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of donor coordination
Continuity in project management enhanced efficiency of project implementation. PCU was unable to fulfill
its role as Project Coordination Unit in terms of coordinating donor activities and missions. The
responsibilities are shared between the government and donors; however, leadership needs to be enhanced
during the next phase.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Initially, the PAD foresaw a total project cost of US$20 million. By project closing, the Bank contribution
amounted to US$21,842,033 because of fluctuations in exchange rates (SDR-Euro). The project
disbursement schedule was affected by the slow project start. Once project implementation accelerated, the
disbursement pace picked up. The remaining balance of US$376,709 is scheduled to be canceled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Unlikely

Financial sustainability
Although recurrent budget allocations decreased (not just in education) during project implementation, they
increased again marginally during the last year of implementation. The government's commitment to


                                                     - 19 -

education was present throughout the project cycle with education receiving one of the largest shares;
however, the share remains very small compared to its neighboring countries and thus continued financial
sustainability is not asssured. Given its heavy indebtedness, the government relies on donor support for
many activities in the sector. The Gambia has been characterized as a donor orphan country; nevertheless,
it has been receiving support from UNICEF, DfID, the African Development Bank, and the EU. In 2004,
donor's funding as a share of GDP amounted to 1.17% whilst government spending on education as a share
of GDP corresponded to 1.86%. Donor coordination, including the harmonization of reporting
arrangements and other procedures, has not been successfully implemented. For the upcoming project,
strengthening donor coordination will be necessary.

Technical sustainability
The Education Management Information System has been in place since 2002 under the technical
assistance provided by DfID; after that financing elapsed, the data collection and analysis system broke
down and updated statistics and data were not available after 2002-03. At the ICR stage, the data for the
remaining years were collected, and the validation process was underway for 2003-04 and 2004-05.

Institutional sustainability
Project implementation was hampered by the attrition of qualified staff from DOSE mainly because of the
low salaries and lack of benefits. In order to address this problem, a general civil service reform has to be
carried out; in the meantime, DOSE intends to introduce a performance-based system that offers bonuses to
high-performing teams.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations has two aspects:

1) Strategic aspect: The recently closed project has been in complete alignment with the government's
education policy and the master plan. The next operation will continue to be smoothly integrated into the
second phase of the government's education sector program and will support the government's priorities in
conjunction with other donors.

2) Financial aspect: Education continues to be a priority for the government; however, macroeconomic
instability, contraction of the economy, and a large debt service have hampered the government's ability to
follow through on its commitment. In the 2006 budget discussions, education received the largest share (18
percent) and increase despite a significant decline in government revenues. In addition, with The Gambia
being an Education For All­Fast-Track Initiative (EFA/FTI) country, it is unlikely that external funding
will dry up.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during preparation was Satisfactory. The Bank's priority since the start was to
support the borrower's ownership of the project. To that end, the Bank provided the necessary technical
assistance to the DOSE core team to assist in drafting the master plan, the policy framework, and the
public expenditure review, and to strengthen the borrower's capacity to fulfill its tasks successfully. The
Bank's team held meetings as often as twice a month. The fact that the TTL was based in the Resident
Mission in Dakar allowed for much closer collaboration than is often the case. At the pre-appraisal and
appraisal stages, donor partners including UNDP, UNICEF, and DfID participated in the missions.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                     - 20 -

Satisfactory
Bank supervision missions identified and resolved educational, financial, and procurement issues during
most of the project implementation period. The Bank's task team provided ongoing support from
headquarters or from the Resident Mission in Senegal and through regular missions to The Gambia. The
mission teams generally consisted of staff members or consultants with expertise in different component
areas. More field visits at the school and community levels could have led to more sustained dialogue with
regard to project impact with beneficiaries, better quality control of constructions, and supervision of
education quality. The quality component was only downgraded to Unsatisfactory in 2004, although given
the lack of progress in the past; it should have received this rating as soon as preliminary results of the
National Assessment Tets (NAT) were obtained in 2002. In addition, the MLA had provided a grim picture
of student outcomes in 2000. Moreover, not all the indicators were tracked in the PSR/ISR.

The last two years of implementation were a bit stormy as a result of reshuffling and attrition of civil
service staff. In addition, the Secretary of State at that time was frequently out of country, creating
significant delays in the mission schedules; for example, a supervision mission had to be postponed twice.
Although the Bank budget was generally modest, since the beginning of CY 2004 at least US$200,000
were secured from consultant trust funds, enabling more experts to join the mission and allowing a greater
focus for the first time on education quality, particularly on the teacher training college (Gambia College)
and the teaching and learning processes in the classroom. The Bank's team took the lead in securing the
EFI­FTI Catalytic Grant, and The Gambia received US$8 million US$(4 million per year) for 2004 and
2005.

Internal Bank documents
The sector manager and the country director first commented on supervision reports in May 2002, three
years after project implementation. Inconsistencies in the PSR were noted: For example, the PDOs are not
thoroughly defined during the first 12 PSRs. Starting from PSR 13, the PDOs were changed, referring to
the ones from the DCA.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
With the benefit of hindsight, many of the targets agreed to in DCA and PAD were overambitious. Given
the large number of components and PDOs, it was unrealistic to believe that all of the activities planned
could have been achieved in four years. Despite some difficult conditions at times during the project cycle,
the project was able to achieve most of its goals and targets. There were four TTLs during the 10-year
project cycle, but each transition ran smoothly because most of the TTL were part of the team before
taking charge. Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government performed in a Satisfactory manner during preparation.

The DOSE assigned a project coordinator and a core team of qualified staff to assist with the design and
development of the project. There was continued collaboration between the borrower and the Bank. After
some initial problems, the government took ownership of the project and led the preparation process, with
some technical assistance provided by international and national consultants. The participation and inputs
from beneficiaries demonstrated the borrower's commitment to benefit all stakeholders.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's performance during implementation is assessed as Marginally unsatisfactory.




                                                       - 21 -

Due to The Gambia's unstable macroeconomic situation and large debt service, the education budget
shrunk significantly over the project cycle. Additional contraints included an overly centralized budget
administration, which did not permit each directorate to receive its own allocation and to define its
individual work-plan to meet the overall objectives of the sector. In addition, during the economic recession
in 2003, the month-to-month cash budgeting was a problem that prevented adequate financial planning
within the DOSE. At the end of the project, quarterly budgets were in place

Moreover, insufficient provision of government budget resources (counterpart funding) during the first two
years of project implementation, compared to what was originally planned in the PAD, created delays in the
realization of activities. This resulted in an Unsatisfactory rating of implementation progress. This issue
was then addressed. Delays encountered in the definition of specifications, preparation of bidding
documents, and award of contracts resulting from slow national processes were areas of concern and
negatively affected the project at the beginning.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) showed strong commitment throughout project implementation
despite some understaffing in the last two years of implementation. During most of the project cycle, one
project manager and one deputy project manager who were familiar with the Bank's procedures managed
the project. Overall, the implementation agency performed in a Satisfactory manner.

Procurement
Work was hampered by some problems with procurement procedures. Two procurement issues caused
delays in project implementation First, procurement of textbooks and other instructional materials fell
behind schedule because of delays in national procurement procedures. Second, the computer bid for 500
computers to be installed in secondary schools was canceled because of a dispute in the selection of
suppliers. The classroom construction program was also delayed, although this did not have large
repercussions on the overall project, given that the target of 942 classrooms under phase 1 was surpassed.
In January 2004, the procurement officer resigned, leaving the unit to be run by the assistant procurement
officer, who was not adequately trained.

Financial management
The only staff member to be fully trained was sent overseas in 2001 to undertake an MBA under the
project's financing. She came back and has since then been confirmed as the Financial Comptroller of the
PCU. No other staff member has received the proper training in the financial management system. Close to
the end of the project, an assistant project accountant was recruited. All the audits were rated
"unqualified."

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated as Marginally unsatisfactory. Despite severe budget decreases,
the DOSE showed strong ownership and commitment throughout project implementation although
weaknesses were noted in 2003 with the leaving of some key staff. Despite the problems of maintaining
staff, the PCU was able to successfully do its work. At the ICR stage, the majority of these issues were
resolved and prospects seem promising for the next project. Most of the PDOs were achieved, and in some
cases even surpassed initial expectations. On the other hand, the Department of State for Finance has not
been provided with sufficient financial resources from the Government to enable it to deliver on its
committment as established in the PRSP, therefore the overall borrower performance is rated Marginally
unsatisfactory.




                                                     - 22 -

8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons can be drawn from the project at two levels, as described below.

Preparation

Establishment of a government task team at the early preparation stage is important. In addition to
building ownership of the project, it allows the Bank's team to assess the implementation capacity of the
borrower and provide technical assistance as needed. It also enables the Bank's team to provide support for
project effectiveness and at the early stages of implementation.

Salary scales in the project coordination unit need to be in line with those of private sector
competitors. This would prevent attrition of competent individuals, as was seen in this project unit, and
would enhance smooth project implementation.


Supervision

Private-public partnerships. Enrollment growth in secondary education can be accompanied by important
developments in private sector participation and household cost sharing. For example, the private sector
can get involved in the management of the school and government can provide subsidies to keep the units
costs down. In terms of household cost sharing, students can contribute nominal registration fees and funds
for textbook rental with waivers available for students from poor households.

Girl's scholarships have important impacts on enrollment at the post-basic level. Scholarships for girls
ensure that cost considerations do not keep them out of school and permit to raise enrollment of girls
significantly. However, gender equity also applies to boys' enrollment. Insufficient attention to boys may
lead to a decline of their attendance.

Ensure sustainability of EMIS and create a data-driven culture, which is essential for policy making.
It is essential to keep data up to date and staff trained in data collection and analysis to allow for reliable
monitoring and evaluation, achievement of triggers, and objectives. This may require different pay scales
for staff who may have little problem finding better paying jobs in the private sector.

Create incentives (financial and nonfinancial) that support a project and are performance-based. For
example, in order to keep qualified teachers in the system, financial incentives, even small ones that do not
significantly affect the budget, can make a difference. It is also important to provide capacity building
opportunities to teams in order to prevent an entire system from collapsing when some individuals leave the
system.

Teacher training programs need to be given sustained attention. Rather than try to increase preservice
intake rapidly to fulfill teacher shortages in the system, serious attention needs to be given to the caliber of
recruits and to revising the program in terms of content knowledge, pedagogic methodology, and teaching
practice.

Strong coordination is needed among donors to ensure consistency among the respective education
projects in alignment with the priorities of government's national education policy. Despite much
discussion at preparation, donor coordination often does not occur during implementation. Government
ownership of the coordination, harmonization of procedures, and alignment of project objectives are



                                                       - 23 -

suggested means to enhance donor coordination. In addition, common indicators for measuring education
quality should be used by all key donors and the government. This will allow for more efficient tracking of
progress and enable the government to take quick action when problems arise.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


Chart 1: Historical Profiile of PDO and IP Ratings (PSR, ISR)


                                      Historic Profile of PDO and IP Ratings
                                      3=HS 2=S 1=MS -1=MU -2=U -3=HU

                     2.5
                       2
                     1.5
                       1
                     0.5
                       0
                     -0.5
                       -1                                                                                                                                                                                                    PDO
                     -1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                    IP
                       -2

                            PSR1       PSR2       PSR3        PSR4        PSR5
                                99,        99,                                        PSR6
                                                      99,                                         PSR7                                                                                                                PDO
                                                                  00,                                          PSR8
                                                                              00,                                          PSR9                                               13
                                                                                          01,                                                                                              14
                                   May        Jun                                                     01,
                                                         Dec                                                       02,                 PRS10
                                                                     Jun                                                       02,                  PSR11        PSR12                                  2005
                                                                                 Dec         Jun                                            03,
                                                                                                         Dec                                             03,                    PSR          ISR
                                                                                                                      May         Dec                                 04,
                                                                                                                                                                                   04,                      30,
                                                                                                                                               May          Dec          Jun
                                                                                                                                                                                      Aug       Apr05,         April




Chart 2: Historical Profile of Component Ratings (PSR, ISR)




                                                                                                            - 24 -

                                                                                ProjectComponentRating
                                                                         3=HS 2=S 1=MS -1=MU-2=U -3HU                                  BasicEducation



                                                                                                                                       Girls Education



                                                                                                                                       Improve Quality of Basic Dvlp



                                                                                                                                       Early Childhood Dvlp



                                                                                                                                       Secondary Education


                           99,PSR199,PSR299,PSR300,PSR400,PSR501,PSR601,PSR702,PSR802,PSR903,PSR10 PSR11 PSR1204,PSR1305,ISR14
                                                                                                03,   04,                              Vocational and Technical Edu

                        May   Jun     Dec   Jun    Dec    Jun     Dec   May    Dec    May    Dec   Jun   Aug     Apr
                    3                                                                                                                  University Education


                    2
                                                                                                                                       AdultEducation


                    1
                                                                                                                                       Sector Management


             Ratings0


                    -1


                    -2




Chart 3: Disbursements vs. Estimates


                                                                        Disbursements vs. Estimates                                                                  Actuals

                                                                                                                                                                     Estimates




             6,000,000

             5,000,000

             4,000,000

  ($,000)    3,000,000

         USD 2,000,000

             1,000,000

                       -


                               CY98             CY99             CY00             CY01             CY02            CY03         CY04  05-Apr            Aug          ining
                                                                                                                                                    thru          Rema
                                                                                                                                                Apr




Chart 4: Disbursements by Percentage




                                                                                           - 25 -

                                        D isbursements by %                                    Actuals

        5 ,000,000
                                                     2 3 %
        4 ,500,000                 2 1 %

        4 ,000,000                          1 8 %
        3 ,500,000                                           16%
        3 ,000,000
                                                                    1 3 %
        2 ,500,000
($,000) 2 ,000,000          8 %
        1 ,500,000

        1 ,000,000

           500,000                                                          1 %
               -
                     CY98   CY99   CY00     CY01     CY02    CY03   CY04   05-Apr A p r t h r u Balance
                                                                                    A u g




                                              - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Cost recovery programs for technical,             Cost recovery program in place      Cost recovery program in place
vocational and teacher education in place
Physical facilities allocated to priority regions 75%                                 75%
Girls' share of enrolment in grades 1-9           46%                                 Grades 1-6 (2004): 50%; grades 7-9 (2004):
increased from 43% to 46%                                                             47%
80% TEVT graduates in fulltime                    80%                                 N/A a tracking study is in process
employement within 12 months of graduation
Public expenditure per student in grades 1-9 N/A                                      N/A
decreased by 20%
Education share of the recurrent budget           N/A                                 2000: 24.19%; 2001: 23.46%; 2002: 14.66%;
increased from 24% to 26% (excluding debt                                             2003: 20.34%; 2004: 17.62%
service)
Student achievement rates in grades 1-9           N/A                                 A baseline for grades 3 and 5 has been done
increased                                                                             through the development of a National
                                                                                      Assessmernt Test

Source: PAD-Most of these indicators are outcome/impact indicators
Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of IDA financed classroom              100%                                108%
construction program completed
Grade 1-6 students have use of a set of           all                                 all
textbooks free of charge
Average rental recovery rates at least 85% for 85%                                    60%
grades 7-9
Gambia College capacity increases gradually PTC=300; HTC = 300                        Achieved
from 120 in 1997/98 to take 300 new
teachers by 2001/2002
8% average annual growth rate in basic            N/A                                 9.6%
education is maintained
Growth in girls' enrollment exceeds that for      N/A                                 Achieved
boys
Fees are reduced from 150 to 100 Dalasis          N/A                                 Achieved
per term in upper basic as of 1999/2000
Student teacher ratio in grades 1-6 increases N/A                                     38:1
from 30:1 to 40:1 by 2001/02
Repetition rate declines from 11% to7% in         N/A                                 7%
grades 1-6 by 2001/02
Baseline data on student achievement              N/A                                 NAT results available
established by 2001/02
Finance recurrent budgetary allocations to        N/A                                 not achieved
education as reviewed and agreed to annually
Grant in aid is rationalized on a per student     N/A                                 The student unit cost is equitable across all
basis and is equitable across all grant-aided                                         grant-aided schools
schools as of 1999/2000
Subsidies to examinations and schools bus         N/A                                 Subsidies for school bus are being paid
are frozen at their 1997 levels                                                       under another department (DOSE).
                                                                                      Examinations are frozen to around 3 million.
                                                                                      Unit costs of exams are increasing but
                                                                                      examination fees cannot be increased. These
                                                                                      are funded under Catalytic Fund.
Coordination and management: Review               N/A                                 Donor meetings were held by UNICEF
meetings with participating partners held                                             bi-annually at project inception. Donor




                                                                   - 27 -

annually in May of each year.                                     coordination was not sustained throughout
                                                                  the project.

1End of project
Source: DCA-Most of these indicators are output indicators
Triggers to move to Phase 2

              Trigger                       Indicator                       Actual
Donor coordination is effective Annual review and planning      Donor meetings were
                                 meetings with all main         held by UNICEF
                                 partners are organized and     bi-annually at project
                                 held by DOSE                   inception. Donor
                                                                coordination was not
                                 Common monitoring              sustained throughout the
                                 indicators are adopted and in  project.
                                 use
Access to basic education is     75% of IDA financed           108% of IDA financed
increased                        classroom construction        classroom construction
                                 program is completed          program is completed
Textbook recycling and rental    All grade 1-6 students have    All grade 1-6 students
systems are functioning          use of a set of textbooks free have use of a set of
                                 of charge                      textbooks free of charge

                                 Rental recovery rates for      Rental recovery rates for
                                 grades 7-9 average not less    grades 7-9 amounted to
                                 than 80%                       60% in 2003/2004. This
                                                                was a significant
                                                                improvement from the
                                                                previous years.
Capacity of the Gambia College Gambia College is able to        This was achieved except
increases the need for trained   take in 300 PTC and 120        in 2003/2004 when
teachers                         HTC teachers a year            student stipends provided
                                                                by DOSE were delayed.
Sufficient recurrent budget is   Budgetary allocations agreed   The recurrent budget has
allocated to education           to annually are provided       decreased over the
                                                                project cycle. In 2004, it
                                                                went as low as 10%
                                                                (including debt service).




                                                 - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million   US$ million
1a) Works (Gamworks-non NGO)                                    4.00             7.06           176
1b) Works (NGOs)                                                2.60             1.30            50
1c) Works (Other)                                               0.20             0.75           375
2) Equipment                                                    2.00             2.68           134
3) Library books, instructional materials                       0.50             0.65           130
4) Textbooks                                                    0.80             1.50           187
5) Consultants                                                  3.00             2.35            78
6) Training, research                                           2.30             3.41           148
7) Scholarships (girls)                                         0.40             0.60           150
8) Operating costs                                              1.00             1.17           117
9) Unallocated                                                  3.20             0.00
Dept. of State for Education                                                     0.37

Total Baseline Cost                                            20.00           21.84
                          Total Project Costs                  20.00           21.84
                   Total Financing Required                    20.00           21.84
The project costs were not kept by components but by categories

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                 2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             0.00            7.90           2.30          15.70      25.90
                                    (0.00)          (5.30)         (1.30)         (0.00)     (6.60)
2. Goods                             1.80            1.40           0.60          2.80        6.60
                                    (1.10)          (0.90)         (0.20)         (0.00)     (2.20)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           5.20          2.40        7.60
(Consultant Services)               (0.00)          (0.00)         (3.00)         (0.00)     (3.00)
4. Instructional Materials           0.00            0.00           1.00          0.40        1.40
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.60)         (0.00)     (0.60)
5. Training                          0.00            0.00           2.70          2.50        5.20
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.00)         (0.00)     (2.00)
6. Recurrent Costs                   1.80            0.00           2.10          0.60        4.50
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.40)         (0.00)     (1.40)
   Total                             3.60            9.30          13.90          24.40      51.20
                                    (1.10)          (6.20)         (8.50)         (0.00)    (15.80)
2. Goods refer to equipment and furniture.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                  2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other



                                                 - 29 -

   1. Works                                 0.12               4.74              3.63             0.00              8.49
                                           (0.08)             (3.56)            (3.07)            (0.00)           (6.71)
   2. Goods                                 1.79               1.03              1.39             0.00              4.20
                                           (1.55)             (0.80)            (0.75)            (0.00)           (3.10)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.09             0.00              2.09
   (Consultant Services)                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.42)            (0.00)           (1.42)
   4. Instructional Materials               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Training                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Recurrent Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                1.91               5.78              7.10             0.00             14.79
                                           (1.63)             (4.36)            (5.24)            (0.00)           (11.22)
   These figures have been automatically generated by the system
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1a) Works (Gamworks-non         4.00         0.40                     7.06         0.40                  176.5    100.0
NGO)
1b) Works (NGOs)                2.60         0.13                     1.30         0.13                  50.0     100.0
1c) Works (Other)               0.20         0.02                     0.75         0.02                  375.0    100.0
2) Equipment                    2.00                                  2.68         0.03                  134.0
3) Library books,               0.50                                  0.65         0.01                  130.0
instructional materials
4) Textbooks                    0.80                                  1.50         0.01                  187.5
5) Consultants                  3.00                                  2.35                               78.3
6) Training, research           2.30                                  3.41                               148.3
7. Scholarships (girls)         0.40                                  0.60                               150.0
8) Operating costs              1.00         0.05                     1.17         0.05                  117.0    100.0
9) Unallocated                  3.20                                  3.20                               100.0
Dept. of Education                                                                 0.37

   The project costs were not kept by components but by categories. In addition to the GLF contribution to the
   project's categories, the overall GLF contribution amounted to GMD 65,721,001.90 or US $2,347,178.
   Cofinancing is not applicable for this projext. Funding from other donors to the Government's education
   sector program are under parallel financing




                                                           - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The PAD (Annex 4) proposed an economic and fiscal justification of the project along three
lines: (i) rationale for public intervention including the distribution of enrollment in basic and
secondary education; and, private and social rates of return; (ii) cost effectiveness analysis and
financial analysis; (iii) impact of the program on government recurrent expenditure; and (iv)
poverty analysis and targeting. This annex aims to assess how the situation has evolved since
appraisal, and, in particular to make a posteriori judgement on whether the justification of the
project is still valid after completion. Given its interconnection, point ii) and iii) will be combined
in this analysis. Updated private and social rates of return will not be feasible given the
unavailability of 2003 household survey results and point iv will not be addressed given the lack
of data permetting to engage in a deeper analysis.

(i) Rationale for public intervention and benefits
The enrollment figures have tremendously increased throughout the project and the increase in
female participation has been enormous demonstrating the surge in demand. Student enrollment in
grades 1-6 has increased from 157,177 in 2000 to 180,417 in 2004/05. At the upper basic level,
enrollment increased from 41,615 in 2000 to 66,025 in 2004/05 and in senior secondary,
enrollment increased from 15,165 in 2000 to 29,349 in 2004/05. One explanation for this surge in
female enrollment in particular (see table below) is due to the introduction of the girl scholarship
scheme which was inducted under the project.

Table 1: distribution of enrollment in basic and senior secondary education


 GER            1999/2000  2000/   2001/   2002/     2003/04  2004/05
                           01      02      03
 Grade 1 to 6     72.5%    74.0%   75.2%   76.3%      75.8%     75.6%
  Female           66.9% 71.2%     73.3%   76.9%      77.8%     78.9%
  Male             78.2% 76.7%     76.9%   75.6%      73.8%     72.4%
  Grade 7 to 9     42.4% 43.0%     46.9%   49.4%      64.9%     65.3%
  Female           34.4% 36.5%     39.7%   43.9%      54.0%     65.0%
  Male             50.7% 49.4%     54.0%   54.7%      63.7%     65.6%
Grade 1 to 9       63.6% 64.3%     66.4%   68.1%      72.8%     72.5%
 Female            57.2% 60.3%     62.8%   66.8%      70.7%     74.8%
 Male              70.2% 68.2%     69.8%   69.3%      74.9%     70.4%
Grade 10 to 12     17.9% 17.6%     17.0%   20.2%      26.9%     28.5%
 Female            13.0% 13.1%     13.2%   15.0%      22.7%     23.6%
 Male              23.1% 22.3%     20.9%   25.4%      31.1%     33.3%


At the supply side, the project contributed to the construction of 1,015 classrooms resulting in an
average annual construction volume of 170 classrooms and the creation of 6,800 places if one estimates an
average student/teacher ratio of 40:1.

ii) Costs and Financial Analysis

Financial analysis:




                                                   - 31 -

The PAD projections implied that the share for education would increase from 18.30% in 1997 to 21.80%
in 2005. An analysis of expenditures shows a rather different picture. Educational expenditure as a share of
the Government recurrent expenditures has decreased over the period of the credit from 17.46% in 2000 to
10% in 2004.

Table 2: PAD projections for education budget

                    1997    2001            2005
Education's % of    18.30% 21.30%         21.80%
Government
recurrent
expenditures (incl.
interest payments**



Table 3: Public spending on education

                    2000    2001            2002        2003      2004     2005*
Education's % of    17.46%     16.35%       11%       13.31%        10%       12%
Government
recurrent
expenditures (incl.
interest payments**
 Public             3.05%       2.17%       2.41%       2.08%    1.86%     1.99%
 expenditures on
 education as a %
 of GDP**
Donor funding as as                                              1.17%
% of GDP
* estimated in budget 2005
** Source: Government budget

Another measure that assesses the fiscal impact of the project and the weight of the sector in the
economy is the share of expenditures of GDP. These expenditures represent 1.86% of the GDP
and are significanlty below the SSA average (3.4%). The share of external funding for education
represented 63% of the government spending for education in 2004. Consequently, the reliance
on external assistance is tremendous.

Table 4: Education spending as % of GDP (2000) in other SSA countries



Malawi              Mali               Benin                Niger                Ghana
4.9                 3.6                3.2                  2.5                  4.1



In adddition to these aggregate figures it is necessary to analyze the intrasectoral allocations unit
costs. Unlike many other government budgets, The Gambia's budget is not broken down by
primary, lower and upper secondary, and tertiary education levels. Rather, primary and lower
secondary are grouped together and form grade 1-9 levels; upper secondary and tertiary education



                                                  - 32 -

are also grouped in the Government budget. According to the Goverement, the only proxy to
determine unit cost by subsector is student enrollment. When analyzing these numbers provided
by subsector, the ICR realised that unit costs were the same for 1-6 and 7-9. Therefore, the
reliability of these numbers were doubtful. In addition, given that the majority of activities
targeted grade 1-9 levels, the focus of this analysis will pertain to that subsector.

Table 5: recurrent budget for education by basic education subsector

                              2000        2001         2002          2003             2004
Grade 1-9                    64.13%      51.46%       64.31%        59.81%           63.16%


Unit Costs:
The evolution of the unit cost is similar to the total costs for basic education (grades 1-9), which
increased from 2000-2004 with a sharp decline in 2001 although the enrollment figures increased
steadily since 2000.

Unit cost in 2004 reach 611GMD (20. $) which corresponds to 14% of GDP per capita, which is
on the lower side of what is observed in other countries. Against this background the direct
impact of project on the recurrent expenditures in the sector is significant.

Chart 1: Grade 1-9 budget and enrollment


                                  Grade 1-9 budget and enrollment


                     300,000                           160000000

                                                       140000000
                     250,000
                                                       120000000

                     200,000
                                                       100000000
     students                                                           number of students
             of      150,000                           80000000
                                                                        budget 1-9

                                                       60000000
                     100,000
               number                                  40000000
                      50,000
                                                       20000000

                          0                            0
                             2000 2001 2002 2003 2004




Benefits
Throughout the project cycle, 27,895 upper basic female students and 4,588 senior secondary



                                                    - 33 -

female students benefitted from scholarships having a direct impact on the growth enrollment
rates. (see first table above).

Table 6: Girl scholarships and expenditures

Grade 7-9                           Grade 10-12            Amounts Gr.1-6   Amounts 7-9
27,895 students                     4,588 students       GMD 21,683,468     GMD 7,987,158



Chart 2: Girls' enrollment and scholarships (grades 7-9)


                                   Girls Enrollment (gr7-9) and Scholarships


                        12000                                          60.0%
                                                               54.0%

                        10000                       43.9%      10058   50.0%
                                                     8886
                                         39.7%
                         8000  36.5%                                   40.0%

                                          6662
     Enrollment                                                                 Gross Enrollment
                         6000                                          30.0%
                                                                                Percentage

               Gross     4000                                          20.0%
                    Girl       2289
                         2000                                          10.0%


                           0                                           0.0%
                               2001       2002       2003      2004

                                            Scholarships




Chart 3 : Girls'enrollment and scholarships (grades 10-12)




                                                         - 34 -

                                  Girls Enrollment (gr10-12) and Scholarships


                        2500                                         25.0%
                                                             22.7%


                        2000                                 1909    20.0%

                                                  15.0%

                        1500  13.1%     13.2%                        15.0%

     Enrollment                                                                 Gross Enrollment
                                                  1206
                                        1062                                    Percentage
                        1000                                         10.0%
               Gross

                    Girl
                         500  411                                    5.0%



                          0                                          0.0%
                              2001      2002       2003      2004

                                          Scholarships




Table 7: PAD projections and actuals at project closing

                                   2000/01             PAD estimates      Actuals 2005
                                                       2005
Grades 1-6
Gross enrollment                   74%                                    76%
ratio
                                                       88% (including     >90% (including
                                                       madrassas)         madrassas)
% repetition                       4%                  4%                 3%
%dropout                           7%                  4%                 7%
%classe                                                35%                25%
double-shifting or
multigrade classes


Grades 7-9
% repetition                       4%                  2%                 6%
%dropout                           14%                 0%                 10%
%classe                                                50%                33%
double-shifting or
multigrade classes
Transition rate from               90%                 87%                94%
grade 6 to 7



                                                       - 35 -

Grades 10-12 gross     18%                      26%                   28.5%
enrollment ratio
Transition rate from   59%                      54 %                  65%
grade 9-10



As noted in the main text, the gross enrollment rate improved significanlty over the course of the
project and surpassed the intial projections stipulated in the PAD. Repetition rate in lower basic
education has been lowered to 3% surpassing the target set in the PAD by 1%. The same
progresss has not been made in upper basic, in which repetition rate has not met its target. The
dropout rate in lower basic education has been lowered but is still 3% away from the projected
target in the PAD. In upper basic the dropout rate is unacceptably high and is far from the
estimated target. Multigrade classes have not increased as estimated. A possible reason relates to
the large number of new teachers that have been absorbed by the system.

Student-teacher ratio have increased over the project cycle and almost reached the pre-established
target of 40:1. Progress with regard to textbook ratios have been made significantly and at project
closing all grade1-6 students had a free set of textbooks.

In terms of academic achievement, girls continue to underpeform compared to boys. Academic
achievement remains low. The project contributed to the development of a National Assessment
Test allowing for the establishment of a baseline data. Results show that less than 10% achieved
the desired mastery level of 73%. The end of year exams in 9th grade show similar weak results.

Table 8: GABECE Gambia Basic Education Exam (2003) : passing rates

Female                                          14.16%
Male                                            17.54%
Total                                           16.09%

The passing rates don't provide for a complete picture since the admission to Grade 10 is
determined by an aggregate score, which is different form the individual pass rates per subject.
However, the academic performance rates remain low in general. The next project will need to
analyze the different exams and provide suggestions for a more reliable examination system since
it seems unrealistic to believe that less than 20% of the student population passes the examination
to senior secondary.

Rates of return
Developing counties tend to follow conventional patterns of rates of return with social rates
diminishing with the level of education and private returns being higher than social rates. The
Gambia follws a similar pattern; however, the private rate of return for secondary education is
only marginally higher than its social rate. The same observation can be made for basic education
(see table below for rates of return). The PAD's Annex 4 did not make any assumptions on
repetition and unemployment and their potential impact on the rate of return. Consequently, a



                                                 - 36 -

deeper analysis cannot be undertaken with regard to the impact of the combination of repetition
and unemployment on returns.

The Gambia did not complete a rate of return analysis since 1997/98. A household survey has
been completed in 2003 but the results are not yet available. A Country Status Report is planned
to be conducted in the following years, and will allow to update some of the missing information.

Table 9 : private and social rates of return (1997/98)

                              Private    Social
    Basic education (1-9)     37         34
    Secondary education       13         12
    Vocational/technical      24         16
    education




                                              - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/10/1996                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ARCHITECT/IMPLEMENT-
                                             ATION SPEC (1); TVET SPEC
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPEC
                                             (CURRICULUM & SCHOOL
                                             MANAGEMENT) (1)
              04/27/1997                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             HGHER EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/14/1997                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
              06/09/1997                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              08/21/1997                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/17/1997                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (CURRICULUM) (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (TVET) (1); TASK TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              05/03/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              05/16/1999                5    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER           S               S
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (2); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MGMT SEP. (1)
              11/18/1999                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIAL (1);
                                             SR. EDUCATION SPECIALI
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT, EDUCATION
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT S (1)
              08/20/2000                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S



                                              - 38 -

                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                     FINANC. MGT SPECIALIST
                     (1); EDUC. TEXTBOOK
                     SPECIAL (1); PROCUREMT
                     SPECIALIST (1); EDUC.
                     CAPACITY BUILD. (1)
02/02/2001        4  TEAM LEADER (1); SENIOR       S    S
                     EDUCATION SPECI (1);
                     INSTITUTION DEV. SPECI (1);
                     PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                     (1)
12/05/2001        3  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                     TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST (1);
                     FIN. MAN. SPECIALIST (1)
05/01/2002        4  MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                     PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                     (1); FINANCIAL
                     MANAGEMENT (1)
04/17/2003        1  TASK TEAM LEADER (1)          S    S
06/05/2004        5  EDUC SPEC (TEACHR TRG)        U    S
                     (1); EDUC SPEC (GENDER)
                     (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                     (1); EDUC SPEC
                     (INSPECTION) (1); MISSION
                     LEADER (1)
12/12/2004        14 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         U    U
                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST(1);
U=Marginally         EDUC SPEC (TEACHER TRG)
Unsatisfactory       (1); EDUC SPECIALIST
                     (INSPECTION) (1);
                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                     (ENGLISH LANGUAGE) (1);
                     EDUC SPECIALIST
                     (ASSESSMENT) (1);
                     INSTITUTIONAL
                     ASSESSMENT SPECIALIST
                     (1); HIGHER EDUCATION
                     SPECIALIST (2); FINANCING
                     SPECIALIST (1);
                     STATISTICAL EXPERT (1);
                     LABOR MARKET SPECIALIST
                     (1); EDUCATION SPEC
                     (NON-FORMAL) (1); LEAD
                     EDUCATION SPEC (1)
04/07/2005        10 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
S=Marginally         EDUC SPECIALIST
Satisfactory         (TEACHER TRG) (1); EDUC
                     SPEC (ENGLISH LANGUAGE)
                     (1); HIGHER EDUC SPEC (4)
                     EDUC SPEC (NON-FORMAL)
                     (1) CONSTRUCTION &



                     - 39 -

                                                   IMPLEMENTATION SPEC (1)

 ICR
               08/09/2005                     6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S          S
                                                    ICR MISSION LEADER
               S=Marginally                         (1); HIGHER EDUC
               Satisfactory                         SPECIALIST (1);
                                                    CONSTRUCTION &
                                                    IMPLEMENTATION
                                                    SPEC. (1);
                                                    INSTITUTIONAL
                                                    DEVELOPMENT SPEC
                                                    (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                    SPEC (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    N/A                           365.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                 158.31                          707.6
  ICR                                             15                             35
  Total                                       173.31                         1108.4
Because of a lack of information, identification/preparation and appraisal/negotiation were combined




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Overall borrower performance is rated marginally unsatisfactory




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

        I. Project Documents
        Aide-Memoires
        Project Status Reports (PSRs), Seq#1-14. (2000-2005)
        Project Appraisal Document (PAD), April 7, 1998
        Development Credit Agreement (DCA), September 22, 1998
        Office Memorandums
        BTO
        Project Correspondence


        II. Bank Documents
        CAS, 1998


        III. Government Documents
        Revised Education Policy (1988-2003), Department of State for Education
        National Education Policy (2004-2015), Department of State for Education
        Education Master Plan (1998-2005), Department of State for Education
        Education Sector Review and Linking Education with Human Resource Development and
Utilization. Consultant: Dr. Alieu B S Taal, University of Gambia.
        The University of The Gambia's Corporate Strategy (draft, 2005)
        Education Public Expenditure Review, 1998; 2001
        Strenghtening Budgetary Performance and Management. Public Expenditure Review, 2004.
       Estimates of Recurrent Revenue and Expenditure with Development Expenditure, 2000-2005
        Technical and Vocational Education and Training Policy (2003), Department of State for
Education
        Monitoring of Learning Achievements (MLA) Project. National Report. Assessment of Learning
Achievements and the Conditions of Teaching & Leanring
       in Primary Schools in The Gambia. Department of State for Education (2000)
       National Assessment Tests (2002). West Africa Examination Council (WAEC)




                                               - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. Supplementary Tables

Table 1: Relevance of Project Components with regard to Project Development Objectives
                           Components from PAD
Component 1: Access to Basic Education: Increase the gross enrollment                                    PDO (DCA)
ratio of 7-15 year old in grades 1-9 to 77% in 2002 by:                                1. Increase gross enrolment in education
(i) extension of double-shift and multi-grade teaching                                 institutions, particularly basic education.
(ii) new construction and rehabilitation of existing facilities
(iii) establish linkages between Madrassa edu. and formal system                       2. Improve education quality, and
(iv) expansion of opportunities for the disabled                                       educational attainments of those studying, in
(v) improvement in the supply and deployment of teachers                               the said institutions.
(vi) provision of school lunches
Component 2: Girls' Education: Increase the enrollment, retention and                  3. Develop a program for early childhood
performance of girls attending grades 1-12 through:                                    development and care.
(i) a scholarship scheme and flexible fee schedules
(ii) the development of a supportive learning environment                              4. Develop a strategy for the provision of
(iii) a community and teacher sensitization program                                    vocational and technical education relevant
(iv) an increase in the proportion of female teachers in schools                       to the demands of the job market.
Component 3: Quality and Relevance of Basic Education: Improve the
quality of basic education, through:                                                   5. Facilitate private sector participation in
(i) reforming the curriculum for grades 1-9                                            education and training.
(ii) access of a complete set of textbooks for each grade
(iii) providing an adequate supply of teaching/learning materials
(iv) reorganizing the production capacity and potential BPMRU                          6. Strengthen the capacity of education sector
(v) revising the system of assessment and examinations                                 management institutions to carry out the
(vi) enhancing monitoring and evaluation capacity                                      program.
(vii) expanding the provision of INSET
(viii) expanding coverage, guidance, counseling and library services
(ix) re-introducing school broadcasting services
Component 4: Early Childhood Development and Care: Ensure that
the quality of ECDC is enhanced and that the number of children attending
pro-school, particularly in rural communities by:                                                      PDO (Annex 1)
(i) a review of operational policy guidelines                                          1. Student achievement rates in Grades 1-9
(ii) training for ECDC providers                                                       increased by 2002
(iii) the promotion of community based and managed programs
Component 5: Secondary Education: Increase enrollment in grades                        2. Physical facilities allocated according to
10-12, and improve quality of senior secondary education:                              priority regions
(i) extension of double-shift teaching
(ii) scholarship incentives for girls and construction of new facilities
(iii) increasing the number of qualified and trained Gambian teachers                  3. Girls' share of enrollment in Grades 1-9
(iv) the introduction of computer technology and literacy                              increased from 43% to 46% by 2002
Component 6: Vocational and Technical Education: Increase access to
post-school vocational and technical education through:                                4. 80% of TEVT graduates in fulltime
(i) expansion of skills training centers in rural areas                                employment within 12 months of graduation
(ii) upgrading the facilities and strengthening capacity in GTTI                       by 2002
Component 7: University Education: Establish a University of The
Gambia with capacity for about 2,000 students in identified priority                   5. Public expenditure per student in grades
programs and development of: GC, GTTI and MDI.                                         1-9 decreased by about 20% by 2002
Component 8: Non-formal Education: Increase adult literacy rate by
expanding literacy facilities through government and private sector                    6. Cost recovery programs for technical,
partnership.                                                                           vocational and teacher education in place by
Component 9: Component 9: Education Sector Management: Enhance                         2002
the performance of the education sector through:
(i) restructuring the Department of State for Education (DOSE)                         7. Education's share of the recurrent budget
(ii) implementing an appraisal system for all staff                                    increased from 24% to 26% by 2002
(iii) strengthening the capacity of regional education offices
(iv) establishing a comprehensive Management Information System
(v) strengthening the projects Co-ordination Uniy




                                                                         - 44 -

        Table 2: Bank budget over the project cycle




                                                                 PE-P035643-SPNVariablecost
                                 BankBudget1998-2005             PE-P035643-SPNStaffcost

                                                                 PE-P035643-LENVariablecost
                                                                 PE-P035643-LENStaff cost

$300,000




$200,000




$100,000




      $-

           1998       1999     2000       2001       2002   2003    2004         2005




                                              - 45 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's evaluation report


INTRODUCTION
The International Development Association of the World Bank participated in Government of The
Gambia 3rd Education Sector Programme in support of the Education Sector Policy Framework
1998-2003 and the Bank's Country Strategy Papers (CSPs) 1998/00, 2001/03 & 2003/05 lending
cycles.

The Department of State for Education was the Executing/Implementing Agency and PCU-DoSE
assigned the responsibility to coordinates implementation activities of the project, liaison with
cooperating donors and reporting.


ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES
Original Objectives
To:
(i)      Increase gross enrolment in educational institutions, particularly basic education;
(ii)     Improve education quality, and educational attainments of those studying, in the said
institutions;
(iii)    Develop a programme for early childhood development and care;
(iv)     Develop a strategy for the provision of vocational and technical education relevant to the
demands of the job market;
(v)      Facilitate private sector participation in education and training; and
(vi)     Strengthen the capacity of education sector management institutions to carry out the
program.

Original Components
The project consists of the following components:
(i)      Basic Education Expansion
(ii)     Girl's Education
(iii)    Improving the Quality & Relevance of Basic Education
(iv)     Early Childhood Development and Care
(v)      Secondary School Development
(vi)     Vocational and technical Education
(vii)    University Education
(viii)   Adult Education and Functional Literacy
(ix)     Improve Sector Management

The project objectives and components were not revised at mid-term reviews and implemented as
designed at appraisal.

ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE OUTPUTS
Outcomes/achievement of Objectives
I.       Gross enrolment ratio in grades 1 ­ 9 increased from 65% to 78% in 2002/03; exceeding



                                                   - 46 -

the targeted 77%. Current GER at this level is 83%. The attainment of this target is attributed to
the efficiency measures in the utilization of physical and human resources through the double shift
and multi -grade teaching strategies, the effective linkages between the formal system and the
parallel Madrassa system, and the massive campaign for enrolment of girls through the girl's
education programme.

II.      Gross enrolment ratio for girls exceeded its target by 4 percentage points by 2002/03 for
grades 1-6. This has been achieved due to a combination of factors ranging from the scholarship
scheme initiated by the project which was complemented by other initiatives such as the girl
friendly schools initiative (in collaboration with UNICEF) and the Dina Said fund support; all
geared towards supporting the schooling of the Gambian girl child.

III.     Quality and relevance of basic education still leaves much to be desired. The findings from
the LAT highlight a mastery level not exceeding 10% in the core subjects. The GABECE results
have been very poor over the years; with less than 10% of the candidates obtaining a mere pass in
the core subjects. The outcome of these 2 different activities will provide us with the latest
benchmark on quality. In the last LAT test conducted for grades 3 and 5, 90% of the learners did
not achieve the mastery of 70% in the subjects tested. The increase in the resource allocations,
the numerous, and varied interventions that have taken place in the sector lead to significant
increased access to education. However, not much impact is made to improved quality of teaching
and learning outcomes.

IV.      The transition rate from grade 9 to grade 10 has reached 52% a two point over the target.
This is a result of the policy initiative of universalizing basic education through the elimination of
the selection/entrance examination at grade 6 thus allowing for a 100% transition to grade 7. With
an increase in the UBS enrolment and the automatic transition from the lower to the upper basic,
the sector has witnessed the expansion of the provision of secondary education. Hence more
opportunities are offered to students to enroll at the secondary level. This has significantly
contributed to improving the GER at this level to 26% against the target level of 23%. Through
collaboration with partners (i.e. World Links) computers have been introduced if not in all but in
the majority of senior secondary schools; the computers are mainly used to access the internet
facilities thus facilitating teaching through the use of ICT.

V.       The early childhood education is provided privately with majority of providers in the urban
area (Region 1 and 2). More than 350 centres have been registered whilst quite a significant
number of applications for new centres are received annually. Pre-school Education is provided to
children between the ages of 3 and 6. Until 1995, the number of pre-school centres registered was
125; found mainly in the Greater Banjul area. However, in 1998, the number of centres increased
to 265. Over the years, the rural areas have experienced an increase in the number of Early
Childhood Development Centres. This type of education is entirely provided by the private sector
including organizations such as Religious Missions, NGOs and private individuals.

VI.      The vocational and technical education now has a TVET policy that was developed by the
DOSE with support from the EC. This has led to the establishment of the National Training
Authority (NTA) responsible to oversee the management of the vocational and technical



                                                   - 47 -

education throughout the country. The coming into existence of the NTA, though new, is a clear
sign that the sector is committed to restructuring and reviewing the programs offered. The GTTI
has reviewed its programs and incorporated new ones thus its enrolment has significantly
increased. Plans are on the way to embark upon a labor market needs analysis.

VII.    Even though the UTG has been functional since 2001, the initial approach of developing it
from the already existing institutions i.e. GC, GTTI and MDI has not fully been adhered to, even
though some adhoc arrangements are in place. The UTG is on the process of finalizing its
strategic plans and it has been highlighted that for the UTG to function both efficiently and
effectively there is need to integrate these institutions within the UTG.

VIII.   The sector has strengthened its Programme Coordination Unit (PCU) through staffing and
provision of equipment. This unit has over the period managed a range of donor supported
projects and initiatives. This has enabled the PCU to build capacity as well as prove its ability to
manage and coordinate effectively donor funds.

IX.     The sector has also established an education management information system (EMIS) for
data collection and analysis thereby helping informed management on decision making issues. The
system is fully operational and has been used in the conduct of studies commissioned by the
sector. This has enabled the sector to manage quite a very large amount of data through use of a
robust, reliable and effective EMIS system. However, the gains are achieved not without hitches
for instance staff attrition experienced at the IT Department and departure of TAs/volunteers.

MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

Civil Works:
The Gambian Agency for the Management of Public Works (Gamworks) signed three Delegated
Management Contracts (DMCs) for the implementation of the civil works of the project. The
DMCs comprised of the construction of classroom blocks, wells and furniture. By the closing date
of the project, all the classrooms were completed successfully, with quality and satisfaction of the
beneficiaries; but, as in any project, not without shortcomings and problems. The list below is not
exhaustive but represent some of the key experiences from the project:

·       For efficiency and to save time, Gamworks should have signed one DMC and phased its
implementation in three stages rather than having to sign three DMCs for the same purpose.
·       The packaging of the different components of the DMC created many difficulties. The
construction of the classroom blocks were separated from the fabrication of the furniture meant
for these classrooms. Mostly, the furniture were ready long before the classrooms costing the
Agency storage fees that were not factored before. For others, they were exposed to the sun and
other elements outside causing the furniture to deteriorate in quality.
·       Another bad idea that should never be repeated again is to separate, within the works, the
structure and metal works. Even though it had the good intention of giving opportunities to a
whole range of contractors, it has the effect of delaying completion unnecessarily. Masonry work
would be long completed while the trusses are being awaited to mount the roof. Works contracts
should be left to one contractor to avoid shifting blames and all the inherent delays.



                                                  - 48 -

·       Contractors experienced significant cash flow problems, particularly during the time when
the Dalasis was unsteady. This caused significant delays in completing the works and some
contracts ended up being terminated. Price adjustment was done but that did not fully alleviate
their problems. Realistic price adjustment that reflect actual currency and market situation is the
solution in this case.
·       There were no significant problems during the procurement process due to the fact that all
the contracts were NCB.
·       Because the construction contracts were small, it attracted small time contractors who did
not have the capacity and were problematic. To avoid this, lotting of the schools for bigger
packages to attract better contractors need to be entertained. Bigger packages may mean that the
threshold for prior review need to be increased, the reason being the positive experience for the
procurement of NCB contracts.

Apart from these, there were some technical problems that may require looking into in the future,
namely:

·       The grade and quality of floor slabs need to improved for durability and better finish, and
also cost. Screeding on top of the concrete would not be necessary with better concrete, hence
the low cost.
·       The steel members with their connections and fastening may need a new approach. The
use of angles in lieu of tubes for roof trusses has to be looked for economy and reliability.
·       Tiling for the offices, especially for the principal, will reduce maintenance. Painting of
floor slabs may also be a good idea.


Notwithstanding all of the above, generally Gamworks has been able to successfully implement its
DMCs with the collaboration and assistance of the Project Coordinating Unit of the Department
of State for Education. Gamworks has capacity to do more in future when called upon again.

Framework Agreement - Christian Children's Fund (CCF) The Gambia, Classroom
Construction, W/ Division:

The Government of the Gambia represented by the Project Co-ordination Unit, Department of
State for Education concluded a framework of agreement with CCF Gambia for the construction
of Classroom buildings in the W/ Division.

Three (3) lots of cumulative total of 49 classrooms were executive under the FA of which 18
buildings have been completed, 26 classroom buildings including 4 storey buildings of six
classrooms are in progress and are expected to be completed by the end of the year.


Main constraints:
Ø       Statutory price variation for instance fuel prices and general price increase (inflation)
affected works.

Ø       Late identification of the site at Brufut.


                                                  - 49 -

Ø       Delays in the fabrication of the furniture for the classrooms due erratic power supply.

Ø       Delays in receipt of duty waivers and processing of payments

Ø       Weak management and supervision of works.

Ø       Informal contractual arrangement with subcontractors.

Ø       The limited knowledge of the donor requirement by CCF.

Ø       Unforeseen problems encountered during progress of work e.g. water shortage at Brufut
and increased labour cost.

Ø       Lastly, claimed is made that, designs of the buildings were frequently altered and or new
things introduced in the design during implementation.


Lessons Learned:
Ø       CCF core function and comparative advantage is not the area of civil works.

Ø       Community participation in this kind of works is important. Building relations should be
beyond statutory contract arrangements.

Ø       Cordial relationship between parties to the contract is crucial. Dialogue between parties to
the contract would resolve misunderstanding.

Ø       Secondly, timely disbursement of funds after agreements are signed is necessary to avert
unforeseen circumstances like inflation having adverse effect on smooth project implementation
and unnecessary price variations.

Girls' Education:
The Component objective seeks to increase girls' enrolment and retention in grades 1-12 through:
(a) a scholarship scheme and flexible fee payment schedules, (b) development of a supportive
learning environment, (c) a community and teacher mobilization program, and (d) an increased in
the proportion of female teachers.

Significant achievements have been recorded as evident in the increased enrolment and retention
rates of girls. What remains now however, is to concentrate more on improving their performance
with a view to enhancing the quality of education, empowerment and development.

Achievements:

Ø       Interventions geared towards the education of girls have contributed in the increases in
enrolment from 60% to over 90% at the Lower Basic level and from 40% to over 50% at Upper



                                                 - 50 -

Basic and a significant increase in the Senior Secondary as well. Such has also attributed to an
increase in female representation at the University level.

Ø       The Scholarship Trust Fund has benefited 27895 girls in the Upper Basic Schools and
4588 girls in the Senior Secondary school.

Ø       2000 community members have been sensitized about girls' access to education, retention
and performance during the last two `Big Bang' sensitisation campaign activities in LRD, CRD
and URD.

Ø       In collaboration with UNICEF the Girl Friendly School Initiative has been scaled up from
50 to 100 in the UNICEF intervention areas of regions 4, 5 and 6.

Ø       Collaborated with Community Development in the orientation and training of school
heads, community members and new teachers on the Girl Friendly School Initiative and its
management.

Ø       In collaboration with FAWE-GAM and support from UNICEF launched over 100
Mothers' clubs in LRD, CRD and URD and provided them with seed money to support the
education of their daughters.

Ø       Facilitated the completion of the validation exercise of the resource centre manual for Girl
Friendly Schools by GAMLISA in the three-targeted areas.

Ø       In collaboration with FAWE ­ GAM organized a national Maths, Science and IT Clinic to
build the capacity of girls in those disciplines.

Ø       Collaborated with FAWE ­ GAM and the Guidance and Counseling Unit in the
sensitization of Brikama Upper Basic, Senior Secondary School and Community on the re-entry
program dubbed "Operation give them a better Life" pilot project for out of school girls.

Ø       Girls Focal Points have been identified at the Regional Directorates to institutionalize the
education of girls in all six Regions.

Ø       In collaboration with FAWE-GAM, held a sensitization workshop for regional and
community Focal Points from all six regions.

Ø       A sexual Harassment Policy and Guidelines has been developed and is currently
undergoing validation and finalization by all stakeholders.

Ø       A Scholarship Trust Fund Board of trustees has been constituted to give guide and
oversee the operation of the scheme and help institutionalized it.

Constraints:




                                                 - 51 -

Ø       Weak administration of the Scholarship Trust Fund affected effective and efficient
resource mobilization and optimal utilization of the fund.

Ø       Lack of awareness on the part of the public about the various financial supports available
in relieving parents of the cost of education for their daughters.

Ø       Lack of monitoring and follow ­ ups to ensure proper and efficient management of
disbursements, utilization of resources and verification of the number of girls receiving
sponsorship.

Ø       Poor performance of girls at the JSSCE and WASSCE respectively.

Ø       Restriction of girls' choices of fields of study, at school and even the homes to only
stereotypical subjects limit their representation at sciences and technology disciplines.

Ø       Lack of employment and skills training facilities/opportunities for girls who complete
Basic and Senior Secondary School education in the rural areas.

Ø       Lack of funding to set up resource centres, procure books and other equipments as well as
collect data to inform the Girls Education programme interventions.


Basic Education Quality:

Objectives:

The objective of the component is to improve the quality of basic education and its relevance to
the Socio-cultural and economic needs of the country through reforming the curriculum for
grades 1-9, ensuring that each child has access to a complete set of textbooks for each grade,
providing an adequate supply of teaching/learning materials which match the curriculum,
reorganising the production capacity and potential of BPMRU, revising the system of assessment
and examinations, enhancing monitoring and evaluation capacity, and expanding the provision of
INSET.


Curriculum for Basic Education

Achievements:

Ø       Basic education grades 1-4 curriculum reviewed, developed, textbooks produced.
Introduced 4 major national languages in basic education teaching and learning.
Ø       Produced teachers guides for grade 1-4 produced and teachers trained on the use of
thematerials
Constraints:
Ø       Lack of monitoring system and assessment of child-centred teaching and learning.
Ø       Lack of funds and experts in the production of learning provisions in this area.




                                                  - 52 -

Educational Provision

Achievements:
Ø        Assorted titles for the University of the Gambia were also procured.

Ø        The printing of teachers textbooks scheduled for 2002/2003 was accomplished. These
included 3000 copies of core subject textbooks for grades 5, 6, & 9, 12000 copies of POP/FLE
teacher's, 8000 copies of instructional materials in 3 national languages for grades 1 & 2, and
5000 copies of Maths, English, and Integrated Studies of the recently revised teachers guides and
materials distributed nationwide to individual schools.

Ø        Introduction of a free textbook recycling scheme (TRS) at the lower basic level grades 1 ­
6. at a ration of 1-1 basis. At the upper basic level 1 ­ 9, the textbook rental scheme (TRF)
maintained were pupils pay a fee of D150 annually to have access to textbooks.


Constraints:

Ø        Inadequate mobility for BPMRU and the Regional Offices restraints deliveries on time.
Ø        Restricted pupil's access to textbooks at the upper basic level 7 ­ 9 were the rental system
still exist.
Ø        Unaffordable/ unwillingness to pay the attached fee of D150 annually.
Ø        Low rental fee collection in all regions and the lack of guarantee of ownership of books
that the scheme offers. .


Standards & Quality Control:

Achievements:
Ø        Fully operation SQUAD Unit established at DoSE.
Ø        Built capacities of inspectors.
Ø        Set up inspection criteria/manual (national bench marks).
Ø        System of monitoring schools administration developed.
Ø        High level participation of stakeholders and PTAs in school administration.

Constraints:
Ø        Lack mobility for school visits for instance inadequate fuel supplies, motor cycles and
vehicle.
Ø        Poor road infrastructure
Ø        Low capacity of inspectors/SQAD Officers.
Ø        Compliance by private managed schools with inspections.

Lessons drawn:
Ø        Adequate human and material resources are crucial for attainment of quality education.




                                                 - 53 -

Examinations and Assessment (WAEC):

Achievements:

Ø       Increased capacity of WAEC to developing and administering examinations that are both
valid and relevant to the educational aspirations of The Gambia;
Ø       Revised the system of assessment and examinations (PSLCE phased out; introduction
LAT and NAT and establishment of national bench marks of assessments).
Ø       awarding certificates that enjoy international recognition;
Ø       Establishment of M&E for GABECE.


Constraints:

Ø       Capacity gaps still exists in the councils and resources needed to build on the level attained
for instance shortage of IT staff and staff attrition.
Ø       Old and outdated system (Wang VS System) still in use. Important to switch over fast to
Server/PC environment) and enjoy the benefit of improved modern technology.


Early Childhood Development & Care:
The objective was to ensure development and operation of a comprehensive ECDC program that
promote and enhance welfare of pre-school kids and parents.

Achievements:
Ø       ECDC database established.
Ø       Operational guidelines developed
Ø       ECDC providers trained
Ø       Forged partnership with private sector, CBOs, and NGOs, and GC.

Constraints:
Ø       Lack of funding represent the single most important risk of sustainable program.


Education Sector Management:
The objective of the component is to enhance the performance of the education sector through
restructuring the Department of State for Education, in line with the master plan; develop and
operationalise a fully integrated education, financial and personnel management and information
system within DOSE

Ø       Through funding from DfID, an EMIS was developed and fully operational by 2001. The
system included Personnel, Statistical and Financial modules. The personnel and statistical
modules were providing up-to-date information until 2002/03 academic year. The PMO were in
the end relying on EMIS to update their data on the education personnel. A GIS was also
developed as part of the EMIS to facilitate the school mapping exercise. The ICT programme has
a nationwide coverage and consist of; advise, internet connections, virus alerts and updates,
training troubleshooting, website designing and development of ICT curricula teaching in schools.



                                                  - 54 -

Computerization of the accounts section of the department was envisage and later drop as plans
are under way to introduce IFMIS within governments' accounting system.

Ø       ICT policy and implementation strategy for the sector developed.

Ø       Strengthen the capacity of the PIU to become the DOSE Projects Co-ordination Unit

Design and implement staff appraisal and development programme and Teachers and Education
Sector Personnel.

Ø       As part of the DfID funded project, a staff appraisal system was designed and
implemented. Appraisal booklets were designed for teachers, middle management and senior
management. An appraisal exercise was conducted in 2002 and 2003. The results of the appraisal
were used as part of the scores for the promotions in 2003. The appraisal exercise has not been
conducted since due to logistical and financial reasons. The development of the system did not
include a standardisation of appraisal which is critical if assessment results are to be used in
decision making.

Constraints:
Ø       Reviewed and harmonized, existing ICT & Computer Literacy Syllabuses and the national
ICT policy.
Ø       Conduct an impact assessment study of the ICT programme
Ø       Maintenance and regular update of the DoSE website
Ø       Institutionalised and sustainable public-private partnerships in school-based ICT
programme to resolve the power and technical problems.
Ø       Make use of ICT potentials in teaching and learning environment.
Ø       Network the sector ICT system within IFMIS.

Non Formal Education (NFE) Component:

The objective of the Component was to increase the adult literacy rate by expanding the
provision of literacy facilities through a strategy of government/ private sector partnership.

Achievements:
Ø       Establish principles and procedures for government/private sector partnership
Ø       All activities set under this column were accomplished and a procedural manual (1998
edition ­GAM 96/002 Integrated Functional Literacy Project Especially for Women and Girls)
which contained among other things, a Sub-Project Eligibility Criteria and a Sub-Project Proposal
Format. Monitoring indicators and instruments for various levels were also developed.

Ø       Expand adult literacy and post literacy programmes ­ A baseline survey report (EFA
2000) Assessment Report on literacy rates produced.

Unaccomplished:
Ø       Since the year 2000 to date no baseline survey was conducted to provide reliable data on



                                                 - 55 -

the number of adults made functionally literate each year.

Ø      A post literacy strategy was not developed, this was envisaged on the 2nd phase of the
IFLP but due to administrative changes in UNDP the project was not renewed.

Main Constraints:
Ø      Limited number of eligible literacy providers,

Ø      Capacities of literacy providers/CBOs have not been adequately strengthened to handle
additional interventions and demand for literacy;

Ø      Inadequate provision of teaching/learning facilities;

Ø      High drop-out rate - most participants were enrolled during the last 6 ­ 13 months of the
project which does not allow enough time to complete the literacy cycle of 300 contact hours;

Ø      The life span of the project was too short for any meaningful social change;

Ø      Inadequate monitoring and supervision;

Ø      Lack of data management systems.


Sustainability:
Ø      The program is sustainable following introduction of changes made in for e.g.
decentralized service delivery, drafting of a comprehensive national literacy policy, and
partnership with more literacy providers strengthened based on the set eligibility criteria.


Lessons drawn:
Ø      A participatory and a consultative project management style is needed for better project
implementation;
Ø      Incorporation of income generation activities and access to micro credit scheme to
enhance learner motivation and retention is a necessity;
Ø      Increased commitment by government and other partners to eradicate illiteracy;
        Mid-term reviews during project period should be encouraged
Ø      Inter-agency co-operation and collaboration in literacy should be encouraged
Ø      Capacity building at grassroots level in required for programme sustainability
Ø      The development of a post-literacy strategy for the retention of skills learnt in literacy and
to prevent relapse into illiteracy is a necessity;
Ø      Capacity building programmes for literacy providers for better programme
implementation.
Ø      Capacity building for ANFU personnel to minimize coordination gaps will be an
advantage.




                                                  - 56 -

Project Coordination:
The Project Implementation Unit was transform to a Project Coordinating Unit to better reflect
it's role coordinating activities of implementing Stakeholder Agencies, donor coordination and
management of framework contracts.
Ø       The PCU following a Cabinet Directive setting projects' staff emoluments experienced
high staff turnover resulting to reduced capacity. It is crucial for Cabinet be lobbied to withdraw
the directive to attract quality and competent project staff and retain them for long.
Ø       Low capacity at the levels of implementing Agencies in drawing up programme plans,
programme implementations and feedback reporting hindered overall project performance.


Financial Management:
The PCU-DoSE have a well establish financial management system having reasonable in-house
financial capacity to maintain and sustain the accounting system. Disbursement chain turnaround
time is quite reasonable and the Bank's Client Connection link helpful in tracking claims through
the approval stages and when payments are effected.




                                                - 57 -

- 58 -

- 59 -

