Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3128-GM
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Education Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 22, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3128-GM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated July 24, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
implement its institutional reform and sectoral development strategy in education (the 
Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of eight years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain, or has obtained, from various Donors (as 
hereinafter defined) loans and grants to assist in financing the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 
of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all 
such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose 
of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“ANFED” means the Borrower’s Adult and Non-Formal Education Directorate 
of DoSE (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“BPMRU” means the Borrower’s Book Production and Material Resource Unit 
within DoSE (as hereinafter defined); 
(c)
“CRDU” means the Curriculum and Research Development Unit of the 
Curriculum, Research, Development and In-Service Training Division of Gambia College; 
(d)
“Coordination Committee” means the Coordination Committee referred to in 
paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(e)
“Dalasi” means currency of the Borrower; 
(f)
“DoSE” means the Borrower’s Department of State for Education; 
(g)
“Framework Agreements” means the agreements referred to in paragraph 6 
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(h)
“GAMWORKS” means the Gambian Agency for the Management of Public Works, a 
company limited by guarantee and incorporated under the Companies Act, 1955 of the 
Borrower;
(i)
“Madrassas” means Islamic/Arabic schools operating in the Borrower’s 
territory; 
(j)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations; 
(k)
“PCC” means the Project Coordinating Committee maintained by the 
Borrower, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(l)
“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit within DoSE, operating pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  3
(m)
“PPARBD” means the Planning, Policy Analysis, Research and Budgeting 
Directorate of DoSE referred in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(n)
“Project Account” means the Account to be opened pursuant to Section 3.03 
of this Agreement; 
(o)
“PCT” means the Partnership Coordinating Team to be maintained pursuant 
to paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(p)
“RIFT” means the Gambia College’s Remedial Initiatives for Female 
Trainees; 
(q)
“Service Agreements” means the agreements between DoSE and the Gambia 
College and WAEC (as hereinafter defined) referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; 
(r)
“SMT” means the Senior Management Team, operating pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(t)
“WAEC” means the West African Examinations Council, operating pursuant to 
the West African Examinations Council Act, Cap. 47:01, as revised by Act No. 6 of 
1990; and 
(u)
“Women’s Bureau” means the Women’s Bureau established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s National Women’s Council Act, 1980. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 15,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15, and August 15, in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15, commencing February 15, 2009, and ending August 15, 
2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, educational and planning practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  5
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) of said Schedule.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion 
of the Project, an account in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association; (b)
deposit an initial amount of $50,000 equivalent into the 
Project Account and thereafter at quarterly intervals, deposit into the Project 
Account, the estimated amount required for expenditures under the Project which shall 
not be financed from the proceeds of the Credit in the following quarter, or any other 
amount required for the Project, as agreed between the Borrower and the Association; 
and (c)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section will be used exclusively to finance the 
Borrower’s share of expenditures under the Project and not otherwise financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
four months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  6
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by the said auditors as 
to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event, namely that a situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the 
Association an accounting procedure manual for PCU satisfactory to the Association; 
the Borrower has appointed an auditor to audit the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement in accordance with the procedures set 
out in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. the Borrower has executed the 
Framework Agreement with GAMWORKS, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; the Borrower has executed the Service Agreements referred to in paragraph 
6 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement satisfactory to the Association; the Borrower 
has to the satisfaction of the Association installed the equipment required for the 
efficient operation of the Banjul Skills Center; and the Borrower has opened the 
Project Account and the initial contribution referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this 
Agreement has been deposited therein.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Secretary of State responsible for Finance and Economic 
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
The Quadrangle
Banjul
Republic of The Gambia
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  7
MINFIN
2264
Republic of The Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s/ Crispin Grey-Johnson
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
(a) GAMWORKS/
3,010,000
90% 
     non-NGOs
(b) NGOs
1,960,000
95%
(c) Other
  200,000
90%
(2)
Equipment,
1,500,000
100% of foreign
furniture and
expenditures and
vehicles
95% of local
expenditures
(3)
Library books 
  380,000
100% of foreign
and instructional
expenditures and
materials
95% of local 
expenditures
Page  8
(4)
Textbooks
  600,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(5)
Consultants’
2,260,000
100%
services and audits
(6)
Training, research
1,700,000
100%
and studies
(7)
Scholarships
  300,000
100% 
for girls
(8)
Operating costs
  750,000
95%
(9)
Unallocated
2,440,000
      __________
TOTAL
      15,100,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, vehicle maintenance and operation, travel, supervision costs and bank 
charges for the operation of the Special Account, but excluding salaries of officials 
of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) to the date of this Agreement; 
(b) under Category (1) (c) until the Borrower has developed a policy and program for 
technical and vocational education, satisfactory to the Association; (c) under 
Category (4) until the Borrower has entered into arrangements with a publisher, 
satisfactory to the Association; and (d) under Category (6) until the Borrower has 
furnished to the Association details of the selection criteria, allocation process and 
management systems, satisfactory to the Association, for the scholarship program for 
girls to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, for services for consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, services for individual consultants 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, local training, 
scholarships for girls and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project, which forms the first phase of the Borrower’s 
education sector program for the period 1998/99-2005/06, are to: (i) increase gross 
enrollment in educational institutions, particularly basic education; (ii) improve 
education quality, and educational attainments of those studying, in the said 
institutions; (iii) develop a program for early childhood development and care; (iv) 
develop a strategy for the provision of vocational and technical education relevant to 
the demands of the job market; (v) facilitate private sector participation in 
education and training; and (vi) strengthen the capacity of education sector 
Page  9
management institutions to carry out the Program.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Basic Education Expansion 
1.
(a)
Expansion of double-shift and multi-grade teaching in the Borrower’s 
territory. 
(b)
Development of modules for pre-and in-service teacher training for 
teachers participating in the double-shift and multi-grade teaching programs.
(c)
Provision of support to the Madrassas, including: (i) the gathering of 
annual education statistics for the Madrassas; (ii) regular consultations with the 
Madrassas; and (iii) provision to the Madrassas of: (A) technical support for 
curriculum development, and (B) English teachers and English textbooks. 
(d)
Improvement of existing conditions for special needs students and 
preparation of a plan to extend special needs education to disabled children in rural 
areas, through the provision of technical support services and equipment. 
2.
(a)
Construction and furnishing in basic level schools of about 750 new 
classrooms and associated facilities, including latrines, offices, storage and 
laboratories. 
(b)
Development of a rehabilitation program and a maintenance system for 
basic level schools.
(c)
Strengthening capacity building of participants in the school building 
program, including: (i) facilitating and strengthening community mobilization; and 
(ii) strengthening the capabilities of (A) the regional principal education officers 
responsible for school mapping, and (B) the regional construction coordinators 
responsible for monitoring and supervising the school building construction program, 
through the provision of training and technical advisory services.
3.
Increasing the enrollment of children of low income families in schools, 
through: 
(a)
the elimination of the textbook rental fee paid by pupils in lower basic 
education grades; 
(b)
the reduction of tuition fees in upper basic education schools from 150 
to 100 Dalasi and the secondary level from 250 to 200 Dalasi, respectively, per year; 
and 
(c)
the subsidization of school lunches in schools located in the poorest 
communities.
4.
Expansion of capacity at the Gambia College, through: (a) construction and 
equipping of staff offices, lecture rooms, science and technology laboratories and a 
computer laboratory; (b) expansion of the library; (c) appointment of additional staff 
including regional training officers; (d) development, implementation and evaluation 
of education modules for teacher certification in school-based training programs; (e) 
installation of an information system for student registration and tracking; (f) 
development of educational management and administration courses; (g) continuation of 
the Gambia College’s RIFT which provides remedial courses facilitating the admission 
into the College of potential female students; (h) strengthening the capabilities of 
the Gambia College staff including (i) upgrading of staff to Masters and PhD degree 
levels, and (ii) provision of appropriate study tours to other countries for suitably 
qualified staff of the Gambia College; and (i) provision to Gambia College of 
training, technical advisory services and equipment.
Part B:
Girls’ Education Program
1.
Carrying out a program to: (a) facilitate and improve the education of girls; 
(b) ensure gender equity for girls in access to education; (c) increase retention of 
Page  10
girls in schools and their performance rates, particularly in schools in the rural 
areas; and (d) lower the cost of education for girls in the upper basic and secondary 
level schools through the provision of scholarships for girls covering tuition, book 
and examination fees. 
2.
(a)
Carrying out of a study of sexual harassment in educational institutions 
and development of a policy to counteract any such harassment. 
(b)
Development and enforcement of appropriate sexual harassment policies in 
educational institutions, including review and appropriate revision of school 
curriculum for gender sensitivity and bias.
(c)
Provision of personal and career counseling for girls, including: (a) the 
extension of guidance and counseling facilities for girls to the lower basic schools 
and to any upper basic and secondary schools without such facilities, and (b) the 
development of training models on guidance and counseling for the use of new entrants 
to the teaching profession. 
3.
(a)
Assisting communities to find local solutions to the education problems 
of girls living in the communities, particularly the problem of low enrollment of 
girls in the schools. 
(b)
Provision of adequate and separate toilet facilities for girls in any 
schools where such facilities do not exist. 
(c)
Design and implementation, in collaboration with the Women’s Bureau, of 
an information, education and communication program for the education of girls.
Part C:
Improving the Quality and Relevance of Basic Education
1.
Curriculum improvement through: (a) the carrying out of a baseline survey of 
curriculum materials for the basic school cycle; (b) the preparation of a statement of 
framework incorporating key learning areas; (c) the preparation, printing and 
distribution of a basic school cycle syllabus in each of the key learning areas; (d) 
strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s CRDU, including the establishment of a 
twinning arrangement between CRDU and an institution with the requisite capacity 
building expertise; and (e) the training abroad in curriculum development at the 
Masters or PhD degree level of at least one suitably qualified staff member of CRDU.
2.
(a)
Provision of a set of school books for children and expansion of the use 
of teacher-made instructional materials in schools, including: (i) reprinting of about 
1,400,000 copies of existing books and the preparation and editing of manuscripts for 
new books; (ii) provision for students in grades 1-6 with a set of books on a no-fee 
loan basis; (iii) continuation of the existing textbook rental system for students in 
the upper basic grade levels, including the contracting out of the financial 
management of the said system; (iv) provision of suitable book storage facilities at 
the schools; (v) strengthening the capacities of principal education officers and 
heads of schools to carry out their book conservation and other school 
responsibilities; (vi) carrying out of a campaign to educate parents and students 
about the textbook recycling and rental systems; and (vii) biennial evaluations of the 
said textbook recycling and rental systems.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of BPMRU, including: (i) training of the staff 
of BPMRU; and (ii) the carrying out of a study of the future status of BPMRU.
3.
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services to develop and carry out a 
program to: (i) reduce the cost of examinations; (ii) establish more reliable 
assessment procedures; and (iii) improve the quality and usefulness of examinations, 
including: (A) phasing out of the grade 6 leaving certificate examination and 
introduction of the Gambia Basic Education Cycle Examination at the end of grade 9; 
(B) the development of national benchmarks for numeracy and literacy; (C) the 
development of a national assessment system; (D) the introduction of the West African 
Secondary School Leaving Certificate; and (E) the acquisition of software and hardware 
to lower the cost of examinations.
(b)
Strengthening of the capacities of the Borrower’s Standard and Quality 
Assurance Directorate (SQAD) and WAEC including: (i) a long term twinning arrangement 
Page  11
for SQAD and WAEC with an international institution with expertise in examinations and 
assessment and capacity building; and (ii) the training abroad of two suitably 
qualified staff members of SQAD and/or WAEC to Masters or PhD degree level in 
educational testing and measurement.
Part D:
Early Childhood Development and Care
Development of an early childhood development and care (ECDC) strategy, 
including: (a) training of ECDC care givers by the Gambia College and the Association 
of Early Childhood Education in first aid, child care and special needs education, and 
in developmentally appropriate practices; (b) teaching under adult literacy programs 
of courses in parenting education, health care and nutrition; (c) development and 
monitoring of guidelines for the setting up of pre-school centers, (d) a campaign to 
promote participation of NGOs and other local organizations to support ECDC programs; 
and (e) establishment and management of pilot community day care centers.
Part E:
Secondary School Development Program
1.
Carrying out of a program for secondary school development, including: (a) the 
construction of 10 new public secondary schools; (b) reduction of tuition fees in 
secondary schools; (c) rationalizing and lowering of grants-in aid; and (d) increasing 
the number of secondary school teachers trained under the University Extension Program 
of the Gambia College.
2.
Introduction of a computer literacy program into all secondary schools, 
including: (a) the equipping of 14 existing grant-aided and 10 planned new schools 
with computer laboratories each managed by a computer literacy teacher; and (b) the 
introduction of computer literacy and Internet use courses first for students in grade 
12. 
Part F:
Vocational and Technical Education 
Upgrading of the certificate program in technology available at the Government 
Technical Training Institute (GTTI) through training and upgrading of suitably 
qualified staff of the GTTI, improving basic skills and mid-level training of 
technicians, and construction, furnishing and equipping of classrooms and 
laboratories.
Part G:
University Education 
1.
Carrying out of a study on the proposed university, including a study of the 
capital and recurrent costs by program and financing options, preparation of a 10-year 
development plan, development of the curricula and staffing plans for each program; 
and development of a coherent management structure and administrative procedures. 
2.
Consolidation of existing post-secondary institutions and upgrading of their 
programs to degree level, including the designation of the Gambia College, GTTI and 
the Borrower’s Management and Development Institute, as schools of the proposed 
university, and establishment of computerized student registration, management 
information and accounting systems. 
3.
Commencement of twinning of arrangements between the University of The Gambia 
and other internationally recognized institutions, to assist in the capacity-building 
of the University of The Gambia staff and development of curricula programs, as well 
as to given international recognition to the certificates offered by the University of 
The Gambia.
Part H:
Adult Education and Functional Literacy Program
Development of an appropriate adult educational and functional literacy (AEFL) 
program, through: (a) the finalization of an operational manual setting out (i) the 
responsibilities of NGOs and community-based organizations (CBOs) participating in the 
AEFL program, and (ii) the preparation of monitoring indicators and reporting 
requirements and formats; (b) provision by NGOs and CBOs of adult and functional 
literacy programs for about 4,000 adults a year starting from 1999/2000; (c) yearly 
evaluations of the AEFL program activities for the first two years of the operation of 
said program; (d) evaluation of literacy results under the AEFL program every 18 
Page  12
months; (e) the holding of annual workshops, with the participation of providers to 
the AEFL program, to discuss the results of the evaluations; (f) training for 
providers and facilitators in program management; and (g) provision of external 
technical advisory services to strengthen ANFED in program monitoring and evaluation.
Part I:
Program to Improve Sector Management
Improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of education sector management, 
through: (a) development of a comprehensive management information system; (b) 
establishment of a school map, construction norms and criteria for site selection for 
secondary schools; (c) strengthening of the capacity of the regional education 
offices; (d) production of annual monitoring indicators; (e) expansion of office 
facilities; (f) leadership and management training for all managers; (g) connection of 
all managers and regional education offices to Email; (h) development and 
implementation of a training policy for staff; (i) training of suitably qualified 
staff abroad in critical areas for which there is insufficient local expertise; and 
(j) development of a staff performance appraisal system.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
The following items may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, namely: (i) furniture and 
office equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent; and (ii) works to be managed 
by GAMWORKS and NGOs estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per contract up to 
Page  13
an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,300,000 equivalent. 
2.
International Shopping
The following items estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines, namely: (i) library books for the Gambia College and for 
basic classrooms and other specialized instructional material; and (ii) consumables 
for the Gambia College laboratories. 
3.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting 
Spare parts and minor off-the shelf items estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000, and the 
reprinting of textbooks may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 3.
Post Review With respect to each 
contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A, (the Consultant Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section. 
Page  14
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance, studies and 
training under the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Auditing services required under the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for: (i) the management of civil works contracts by GAMWORKS in the 
urban areas; and (ii) community-based construction programs in the rural areas may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for small studies shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
Page  15
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Association a Project Implementation Plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, composed of: (A) a Financial and Accounting Manual setting out the 
details of proposed disbursement arrangements for the Project; and (B) a Program 
Operation Manual setting out details of procurement arrangements and other 
administrative, financial organizational arrangements as shall be required for the 
Project;  
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
execute the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Plan. Such Plan shall not be amended or waived, in whole or in part in a manner which, 
in the opinion of the Association, would materially or adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievements of its objectives.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Annex 
to this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, in each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 15, in each year, or such later 
date, as may be acceptable to the Association, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
(d)
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association no later than 
24 months after the Effective Date, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project. The said mid-term review shall cover, among other things: (i) 
progress in meeting the Project’s objectives; and (ii) performance by the Borrower of 
its obligations under the Project.
(e)
The Borrower shall carry out the recommendations of the review referred 
to in subparagraph (d) of this paragraph, as agreed with the Association and set out 
in a timebound action plan satisfactory to the Association. 
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain in a form and with functions and membership 
satisfactory to the Association a Senior Management Team (SMT) in DoSE to be 
responsible for reviewing, on a monthly basis, Project implementation. SMT shall 
consist of all directors in DoSE and the Permanent Secretary of DoSE who shall be the 
coordinator of SMT’s activities.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain the PCC, comprised of representatives from 
the Departments of State for Finance, Education, Health, Trade and Employment, the 
Personnel Management Office and Gambia College, and chaired by DoSE, to provide 
overall policy guidance for the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain in a form and with functions and membership 
satisfactory to the Association the Coordination Committee located in DoSE. The 
Page  16
Coordination Committee shall consist of all directors of DoSE, all principal education 
officers in the regions and the heads of the WAEC and the School of Education of the 
Gambia College. The Coordination Committee shall be responsible for: (i) monitoring of 
the physical progress of Project activities; and (ii) ensuring the effective 
functioning of the linkages between the various Project components. The Coordination 
Committee shall meet on a monthly or, where necessary, bimonthly basis.
(d)
The Borrower shall maintain in DoSE in a form and with functions and 
membership satisfactory to the Association, a PCU to be inter alia responsible for: 
(i) communicating with donors, (ii) coordinating all project inputs, (iii) controlling 
the consistency of project expenditures with the approved annual programs, (iv) 
procurement, (v) ensuring adherence to legal agreements and requirements, (vi) 
financial management of the disbursed proceeds of the Credit, and (vii) submission of 
financial audits and semi-annual reports to donors participating in the Project. 
4.
(a)
The Borrower maintain in DoSE, in a form and with functions and 
membership satisfactory to the Association, the Partnership Coordinating Team (PCT) to 
be responsible for the coordination of activities of participating Project partners. 
(b)
Meetings of PCT shall take place at three months’ intervals. DoSE shall, 
not later than June in each year, organize annual meetings of such participating 
Project partners and representatives of the Department of State for Finance and 
Economic Affairs. Such annual meetings shall review: (i) progress in the 
implementation of the Project; (ii) sector staffing and expenditure; (iii) the program 
of activities and budget for the following school year to be endorsed by the said 
partners; and (iv) a draft public development and recurrent budget for the next school 
year. 5.
The Borrower shall continue to maintain in a form and with functions and 
membership satisfactory to the Association, PPARBD which shall prepare for the Project 
and each year update a set of quantitative monitoring indicators in relation to 
achievements in access, internal efficiency, double-shift and multi-grade expansion, 
resource utilization and expenditure, budgets, and the availability and use of 
instructional materials.
6.
(a)
DoSE shall enter into Framework Agreements, satisfactory to the 
Association, with GAMWORKS and the NGOs which shall entrust management responsibility 
for the school building programs included in the Project to: (i) GAMWORKS for schools 
to be constructed in the urban areas; and (ii) the NGOs for schools to be constructed 
in the rural areas. Each such agreement shall adequately provide for work plans and 
budgets.
(b)
DoSE shall enter into Service Agreements, satisfactory to the 
Association, with the Gambia College and WAEC under which: (i) the Gambia College 
undertakes to provide pre-service teacher training, curriculum and in-service teacher 
services under the Project; and (ii) WAEC undertakes to provide services in respect of 
the learning assessment system component included in the Project.
7.
DoSE shall establish in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
the scholarship program for girls under Part B of the Project. The Borrower’s Basic 
Education Directorate (BED) shall be responsible for: (i) the coordination of Project 
activities relating to girl’s education; and (ii) ensuring that said activities are 
properly monitored and evaluated. 
8.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, in form satisfactory to 
the Association, a textbook revolving fund for upper basic education into which shall 
be deposited amounts sufficient to cover the costs of textbook replenishment under the 
Project. The Borrower shall by April 30 in each year review the adequacy of the 
amounts in the said fund and promptly make arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association to fully cover any short-falls in the fund’s resources.
9.
With respect to the adult education and functional literacy program under Part H 
of the Project, the Borrower’s shall develop a consultation mechanism, satisfactory to 
the Association, with providers participating in said program and with persons and 
entities carrying out activities under the program. ANFED shall be responsible for 
policy formulation, program planning, management, supervision and evaluation of 
progress under the said program. NGOs and community-based organizations shall carry 
out the literacy components of the program. 
Page  17
ANNEX 
Performance Indicators 
Access to basic education 8% average annual growth rate in basic education is 
maintained Growth in girls’ enrollment exceeds that for boys Gambia College capacity 
increases gradually from 120 in 1997/1998 to take in 300 new teachers by 2001/2002 and 
400 by 2003/2004 Equity Fees are reduced from 150 to 100 Dalasi per terms in upper 
basic as of 1999/2000 70% of new classrooms are built in priority regions Efficiency 
Student teacher ratio in grades 1-6 increases from 30:1 to 40:1 by 2001/2002 
Repetition rate declines from 11% to 7% in grades 1-6 by 2001/2002 Effectiveness 
Baseline data on student achievement established by 2001/2002 All students in grades 1 
through 6 have use of a set of textbooks free of charge by 2000/2001 Computer literacy 
programs introduced in grade 12 as of 2000/2001 and covers all secondary schools by 
2002/2003 School maintenance strategy developed by 2001/2002 \0cFinance Recurrent 
budgetary allocations to education as reviewed and agreed to annually Grant in aid is 
rationalized on a per student basis and is equitable across all grant-aided schools as 
of 1999/2000 Subsidies to examinations and school bus service are frozen at their 1997 
levels Coordination and Management Review meetings with participating partners held 
annually in May of each year Textbook rental rate recovery averages at least 80% 
annually
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $650,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  18
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
Page  19
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
