Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16611
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2973-PAK/CREDIT 1936-PAK)
May 21, 1997
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pak Rupees
SAR (May 27, 1988) Rs.17.50 = US$1.00
Completion Year (December 31, 1996) Rs.40.22 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer = 0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 lb.
1 maund= 37.234 kg
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACO         Agricultural Credit Officer
ADBP        Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FSCD        Federal Seed Certification Department
GCP         Ghee Corporation of Pakistan
GOP         Government of Pakistan
Kharif      Crop planted and harvested between May/June and October
MINFAL      Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
MLT         Medium- and long-term
MTR         Mid-term Review
NARC        National Agricultural Research Center
NCBs        Nationalized Commercial Banks
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NMCU        National Monitoring and Coordination Unit
NODP        National Oilseed Development Project
NUYT        National Uniform Yield Trials
NWFP        North West Frontier Province
PARC        Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PASSCO      Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Service Corporation
PBC         Pakistan Banking Council
PCC         Provincial Coordination Committee
PMCU        Provincial Monitoring and Coordination Unit
PODB        Pakistan Oilseed Development Board
PSC         Punjab Seed Corporation
Rabi        Crop planted and harvested between October and May/June
RID         Regulatory Import duty
SBP         State Bank of Pakistan
ST          Short-term
T&V         Training & Visit system of agricultural extension
Vice President                          Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director                         Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief/Manager                  Ridwan Ali
Staff Member                            Rashed ul Qayyum



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ..................................i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                  ..................................1
A       Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .... ............................................1
B   Achievement of Objectives                               .3
C.      Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................. ............ 6
D       Project Sustainability ..............     . ..... .. ........ .             7
E  Bank Performance                                     .8
F       Borrower Performance.             ............. ..             ........ .. 8
G. Outcome                                        .9
H. Future Operation .9
I.  Key Lessons Learned .9
Part H: Statistical Tables                 ........1....................1.............. 11
Table 1    Summary of Assessments .1
Table 2-        Related Bank Loans/Credits .............................. . . 13
Table 3:  Project Timetable .15
Table 4.        Loan/Credit Disbursements .............................. . 15
Table 5.        Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............... . ....... 16
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7-        Studies Included in Project .............................. .................. 17
Table 8A: Project Costs .18
Table 8B:       Project Financing ................ ................... ... .. ... . .18
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10:       Status of Legal Covenants ......... . . 20
Table 1 1:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .22
Table 12:   Bank Resources Staff Inputs .22
Table 13:   Bank Resources. Missions .23
Annexes
Annex 1         Area, Production and Yields of Oilseed Crops .24
Annex 2         Project Expenditures .............    ..     .......      ..      25
Appendices
Appendix A:  Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B    Borrower's Evaluation
Appendix C:  Operational Plan
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2973-PAK/CREDIT 1936-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Oilseed
Development Project in Pakistan for which Loan 2973-PAK in the amount of US$ 31 4 million and
Credit 1936-PAK in the amount of SDR14.5 million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent) were approved
on June 23, 1988 and made effective on April 13, 1989. The project was restructured in January,
1994 and US$ 21.6 million and SDR 2.7 million were canceled from the Loan and Credit
respectively.
The loan and credit were closed on the original closing date of December 31, 1996. Final
disbursement from the Credit took place on May 15, 1997. A balance of SDR1.15 million
(US$ 1.59 million equivalent) of the undisbursed credit, and US$ 9,361,828.74 of the loan were
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Rashed ul Qayyum (Task Manager) at the World Bank Resident
Mission in Pakistan (SA1PK) of the South Asia Region, and reviewed by staff from the
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division (SA1AN) and other Divisions (SAlDR, SAlCO,
ASTIR, LEGSA, LOAAS, and RPA) of the South Asia Region.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, November 18 to
December 4, 1996 (mission's Aide Memoire is at Appendix A). It is based on material in project
files, field investigations and discussions with the project staff in MINFAL, PARC/NARC, and
provincial Agriculture Departments. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by views
reflected in the completion mission's Aide Memoire, preparing its own evaluation of project's
execution (Appendix B) and a plan for the project's future operation (Appendix C), and
commenting on the draft ICR.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2973-PAK/CREDIT 1936-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    This was the first Bank supported project in the oilseed sub-sector of the agriculture sector
in Paklstan. The Bank's support in the agriculture sector, which covers irrigation, drainage,
agricultural extension, and grain storage included 22 projects completed since 1978. The approved
loan/credit amount of these completed projects totaled US$ 1,068.9 million
Project Objectives
2.    The principal objective of the project was to achieve a substantial increase in the
production of oilseed, particularly non-traditional oilseed, and to reduce imports of edible oil and
meal, and thereby contribute to improve the country's external balance. Another objective was to
help increase and stabilize farm incomes through the intensification and diversification of croppmg
patterns. These objectives were to be achieved by expanding the area under oilseeds and raising the
efficiency of oilseed production through appropriate policy changes and the strengthening of
support services. The support services included research, extension, seed multiplication, credit, and
the marketmg network. Policy initiatives were intended to provide better incentives for the
production and effective marketing of oilseed.
3.    Relevant Loan/Credit Covenants. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) included
the following main covenants designed to help promote achievement of project objectives: (i)
section 4.02 for GOP to prepare and implement a plan for strengthening and expanding the
procurement system for oilseeds; (ii) section 4.03 for periodically reviewing and adjusting the
regulatory import duty(RID) on edible oil; (iii) section 4.04 for periodically reviewing and
adjusting the Ghee Corporation of Pakistan's (GCP) retail price of ghee; and (iv) section 4.05 for
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) and Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs)
to provide credit to farmers.
4.     Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives were set out clearly and were in
line with the Bank's agricultural strategy and the country's agricultural policy. However, the
predominant role at that time of GCP, whose low retail prices of ghee effectively kept out private
sector competition, made farmer incentives subject to the ability of GCP to procure oilseed from
farmers. Moreover, the project, was complex and difficult to manage and weak leadership at the
federal government level exacerbated the situation. Following mid-term review (MTR), the project
was restructured calling for de-emphasizing the credit component, an increased private sector role,
bringing traditional oilseed crops within the purview of the project, and reducing the quantum of
physical targets. Most of the objectives of the restructured project were achieved.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     The principal objective of achieving a substantial increase in the production of oilseed and
reduction in imports of edible oil has been accomplished, but not to the extent originally expected.
Since the project commencement was delayed for several reasons, the sowing target for non-
traditional oilseed was scaled down at MTR from 387,000 ha (SAR) to 147,000 ha against which
the achievement in 1995-96 was 105,000 ha (71%), and if the crop of the double low rapeseed and
mustard varieties (canola type) is also considered a non-traditional crop, the sown area rose to
145,000 ha (98%). However, the average of the area planted to non-traditional oilseeds over the
last three years, from FY94 to FY96, was 83,000 ha which is about 56% of the ultimate target of
147,000 ha. Annex 1 provides information on annual planting, production and yields of the
various oilseed crops. Research was able to develop local sunflower hybrids which were cheap and
effective; new seed processing facilities were set up; and technical assistance and overseas training
were provided under the project.
6.    Project Sustainability. Pakistan Oilseed development Board (PODB) has put in place a
mechanism to generate its own funds, that is by levying a cess on edible oil. It has reached
agreement with the relevant federal and provincial agencies on using the cess for meeting, on a
restricted scale, their funding requirements. Based on the expected cess collection, the borrower
has also prepared a work plan for the operational phase (Appendix C). The operational plan inter
alia provides for the continuance of the provincial oilseed directorates, introduction of a
competitive research grant system, carrying out extension through PODB's field staff, and
maintaining the seed processing facilities established under the project. Therefore, institutional
mechanisms for the provision of hybrid seeds (mainly sunflower) as well good quality certified
seeds for other oilseeds through modem seed processing facilities, and extension services should
provide a favorable production environment to the oilseed farmers. On this basis, the achievements
of the project are likely to be sustained.
7.     Costs, Financing, and Implementation Timetables.  Actual project cost at project
completion was US$ 24.14 million (Pak Rs 700.78 million). It is 71% lower than the appraisal
estimate of US$ 84.2 million (Pak Rs. 1,672.8 million) and 45% lower than the estimated cost of
the restructured project (US$ 44.3 million). Following MTR, the revised loan/credit amount of
US$ 26.1 million, was intended to finance about 59% of the revised cost (US$ 44.3 million) while
the estimate at appraisal was 61%. Disbursement as of May 15, 1997 is US$ 15.11 million from
the IDA credit account, indicating about 90% utilization of the revised credit amount. However,
considering the loan and credit amounts together, total disbursements on the same date were
US$ 15.55 million which indicates 59% utilization. hnplementation of almost all activities was
delayed. Following restructuring of the project, however, implementation picked up and majority
of the activities, including civil works, procurement of vehicles and equipment, staff recruitment,
technical assistance and training were completed.
8.    Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives.  The main contributory
factors affecting achievement of major objectives were:
(a)    Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. Prolonged wet spells
at harvest of sunflower in northern Punjab, sudden temperature flares at sunflower



iii
maturity in southern Sindh, and periodic dry spells in the Sibi-Kachhi belt of Balochistan
have affected the productivity of this crop adversely.
(b)    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Absence of an empowered
Project Director, untimely adjustment of RID and availability of inputs, lack of enthusiasm
on the part of the participating financial institutions, inadequate arrangements for
purchasing oilseed crops from farmers, and belated development of local sunflower
hybrids acted as hindrances in the achievement of project objectives. GOP's decision to
disband GCP and deregulate ghee production in the later years of the project led to
adequate incentives to farmers and improved project performance.
(c)    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control.  Factors
hindering achievement of project objectives on the part of implementing agencies were:
delays in providing infrastructure support, weak extension-research linkages,
unsatisfactory monitoring and coordination, and rapid turn over of key staff.
9.     Performance by the Bank and Borrower. The Bank's performance has been mixed,
though overall satisfactory. The appraisal mission underestimated the institutional disincentives
affecting oilseed production In retrospect, we should probably have insisted on more basic
reforms of the parastatal regime as a condition for lending. Bank missions did not provide expertise
in all fields covered under the project. However, GOP decision to disband GCP and deregulate
ghee production, together with effective Bank advice on restructuring the project at MTR and
subsequent supervision helped to tum the project around leading to a satisfactory outcome.
10.   The borrower's performance has been mixed too. Whereas physical targets, as revised,
were generally achieved, there were deficiencies in the areas of policy making, management and
finance. Policy reforms were inadequate: oilseed crop prices were generally set low compared to
import parity prices, ghee/oil prices were not raised enough to induce private entrepreneurs to
participate, and the RID was not adjusted in a timely manner. In the early part of the project
period, project leadership at the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock (MINFAL) was weak
and the team at the National Monitoring and Coordination Unit (NMCU) unmotivated with the
result that funds were not released to provinces in a timely manner, input supplies were delayed,
and the crop was not purchased on time. After GOP deregulation of ghee production and the MTR,
the project performance improved considerably.
11.   Project Outcome.  The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, on the basis of
performance during the second half of the implementing period. There has been an increase in
domestic oilseed production, successful introduction of improved varieties and development of
research and extension capacity. Part of the credit for the improved performance must go to GOP's
decision to deregulate ghee production.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   MINFAL, in conjunction with the provincial governments, has taken decisions regarding
staff, funding and support facilities that are needed for sustaining the project activities in the
coming years and has prepared a work plan for the operational phase (Appendix C). With no
follow-on investment project, future promotional activities for oilseed would depend on PODB's
ability to carry out a limited program from its own resources.



iv
13.    The main findings and lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
(a)    Although farmers, the ultimate beneficiaries, were consulted in project
preparation, the project turned out to be too complex in design. It encompassed all the four
provinces and had numerous components. It lacked specificity for provinces/agro-
ecological zones..
(b)    For maximizing oilseed production, introduction of sunflower crop was assigned
the highest importance while the traditional oilseed crops like rape/mustard were accorded
low priority. As the incorporation of a new crop in the prevalent crop cycle is not easy and
is often time consuming, the project had established far too ambitious targets.
(c)    The responsibility for procurement of the crops rested with GCP -- a public sector
agency -- which lacked the capacity to carry out this task effectively
(d)    The project catered for initial import/production of sunflower hybrid by the private
sector. Development of sunflower hybrids locally by the public sector oilseed research
system picked up after MTR. The locally developed hybrids were found to be cheaper and
quite acceptable to farmers.
(e)    It was found that the non-traditional crops, particularly sunflower, were adopted
mainly by large farmers who did not necessarily need credit. Past history of poor credit
discipline among the farning community was also a cause for reluctance by the banks to
provide credit. Lack of experience and interest by the commercial banks (CBs) in
extending agricultural loans, particularly for medium and long term investments, proved to
be another obstacle in the performance of the on-lending component.
(f)    One of the major factors which helped the project in the later stages was the
change in the policy environment -- the deregulation of ghee/oil prices. As the ghee/oil
prices rose, oilseed processors found it profitable to reach out to farmers im buying their
oilseed crops at rates much higher than the government-support price.
(g)    The Bank's supervision missions should have been more frequent for such a
complex project to succeed. While the main factor leading to improved performance was
the change in policy environment, the transfer of project's supervision management to the
Bank's Resident Mission in Islamabad appears to have been beneficial.
(h)     The project, in initial stages, suffered from lack of leadership. NMCU and
PMCUs heads were transferred rapidly and were not fully empowered. These factors
affected the project performance adversely.
(i)    Aggressive awareness initiatives should have been built into the project. Had
promotional campaigns through electronic and print media been built into the project, the
results could have been improved as was demonstrated by the campaigns undertaken after
the MTR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2973-PAK/CREDIT 1936-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Objectives
1.    The principal objective of the project was to achieve a substantial increase in the
production of oilseed, particularly non-traditional oilseed, and to reduce imports of edible oil and
meal, and thereby contribute to improve the country's external balance. Another objective was to
help increase and stabilize farm incomes through the intensification and diversification of cropping
patterns. These objectives were to be achieved by expanding the area under oilseed and raising the
efficiency of oilseed production through the strengthening of support services and appropriate
policy changes. The support services include research, extension, seed multiplication, credit, and
marketing network. Policy initiatives were to provide better incentives for the production and
marketing of oilseed. The main components of the project were as follows:
(a)    Research. Research programs under the project were to focus on development of
varieties suited to local conditions, improved agronomic practices, adaptation of farm
machinery, and improved linkages between research and extension through outreach trials
at government farms and farmers' fields. To this end, the National Agricultural Research
Center (NARC) and provincial research systems were to be strengthened by providing
additional staff, technical assistance, trainng, and equipment.
(b)    Extension. As the training and visit (T&V) system of extension was already in
vogue in the provinces of Punjab, Sindh and Balochistan and parts of NWFP, the project
provided for this system to cover oilseed crops in addition to the coverage given to major
crops by providing additional staff, technical assistance, trainig and equipment.
(c)    Seed Multiplication. Basic seed would be produced at NARC and provincial
research centers and its multiplication carried out by seed agencies' on their farms and by
registered growers under their direction. These agencies would then process the seed m
plants to be modified or installed under the project and distribute it to farmers through
public and private sector suppliers. The project provided incremental staff, vehicles
equipment, laboratories, stores, and incremental operating inputs for pre-basic/basic and
foundation seed production by the oilseed research centers as well as for seed
multiplication arrangements by the provincial seed agencies   The Federal Seed
'The Punjab Seed Corporation (PSC), Sindh Seed Corporation (SSC), Agricultural Development
Authority in NWFP, and the Agricultural Extension Department in Balochistan.



2
Certification Department (FSCD) was provided with additional staff and vehicles to
strengthen the certification process for oilseeds.
(d)    Credit. The project supported the supervised credit expansion programs of the
Agncultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) and Nationalized Commercial Banks
(NCBs) through provision of funds for incremental short-term (ST) production and
medium/long term (MLT) investment lending.
(e)    Coordination and Monitoring. Four provincial monitoring and coordination
units (PMCUs) and a federal unit, called the National Monitoring and Coordination Unit
(NMCU) and headed by the Oilseed Commissioner, were to be established to coordinate
and monitor project activities. The main function of the federal unit was to coordinate
provincial activities and act as secretariat to the Pakistan Oilseed Development Board
(PODB) while the provincial units were to prepare annual work programs and budgets in
collaboration with the implementing agencies and monitor progress and help resolve
problems.
(f)    Training and Technical Assistance. Various research centers were to receive
technical assistance in specialized fields Selected scientists were to be sent on training to
foreign oilseed research centers. To improve extension, specialized courses in oilseed
production technology were to be provided for agricultural staff locally. Short courses
were also provided for the project staff in learning the various aspects of new oilseed
crops.
2.     A mid-term review (MTR) of the project was carried out in November, 1993. Its main
findings were: (i) a number of critical assumptions of the project designed in 1988 were no longer
valid; (ii) objectives of production expansion and crop diversification were valid if economically
justified, but import substitution at a net cost to the economy was not valid; and (iii) the project
had significantly failed to achieve its original objectives. The MTR called for de-emphasizing the
credit component, an increased private sector role, bringing traditional oilseed crops within the
purview of the project, and reducing the physical targets. MTR also recommended that a new
edible oil strategy be prepared with an overall objective of decreasing public expenditures on the
import of edible oil and including actions such as demand management, expansion of traditional
oilseeds and increased role of the private sector Following MTR, the project was restructured.
Targets were revised downwards for the various oilseed crops, and GOP and IDA agreed to cancel
all except about US$ 3 0 million of the balance of the original on-lending credit component of
US$ 29.3 million. A new strategy has been prepared and its findings and recommendations are: (i)
a minimum rate of growth of 15% over a period of 10 years is necessary to drastically reduce the
gap between production and consumption; (ii) to augment production, oil bearing tree plantations
should be introduced, castor and linseed should be planted extensively; (iii) oil extraction efficiency
of the solvent industry should be improved; (iv) equal emphasis needs to be laid on propagating
traditional oilseed crops; (v) breeding programs should be undertaken to improve oil content of
cottonseed; and (vi) research, development and education programs should be initiated for meal
utilization.
3.     Project Cost. The project, planned to be implemented over a period of about 8.5 years
(from July 1988 to December 1996), was estimated to cost, including physical and price
contingencies, US$ 84.2 million (Pak Rs. 1,672.8 million). A Bank loan of US$ 31.4 million and
IDA credit of SDR14.5 million (US$ 20 million) were to finance about 61% of project costs. The



3
rest of the cost was to be met by Government (15%), NCBs and ADBP (21.5%), and farmers
(2.5%). As per recommendation of MTR, the following loan/credit amounts were canceled on
January 3, 1994: (i) SDR2.682 million from Credit 1936-PAK; and (ii) US$ 21.6 million from
Loan 2973-PAK). Thereafter, the total loan/credit amount of US$ 51.5 million was reduced to
US$ 26.1 million equivalent (IBRD loan of US$ 9.8 million and IDA credit of SDR1 1.818 million,
which was approximately equivalent to US$ 16.3 million).
4.     Legal Covenants. Legal covenants were fulfilled. There were occasional delays in the
submission of audit reports. A few covenants became superfluous because of changes in the
government pricing and procurement policies and financial sector's adjustments (covenants on
oilseeds procurement system, adjustment of retail ghee prices, or covenants on credit ceiling
waivers).
Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.     Clarity. The project objectives were set out clearly and were in line with the Bank's
agricultural strategy and the country's agricultural policy (Sixth Five-Year Plan, 1983-88). The
main objective was to substantially increase the production of oilseed and thereby reduce
dependence on edible oil imports. However, the project had to be restructured because a number
of assumptions made during project formulation were no longer valid.
6.     Realism. The project assumed that short duration non-traditional oilseed crops will easily
fit into the prevalent cropping systems, but changes in the cropping pattern took longer.
Furthermore, the low pnces set by the public sector GCP effectively kept out private sector
competition, while GCP lacked the capacity to buy oilseeds from farmers. Government did not
progressively increase the domestic ghee and edible oil prices with the result that the private sector
did not buy oilseeds from farmers.
7.     Complexity. The project was complex. It was national in character involving all the four
provinces and dealt with a number of components in each province It was difficult to implement a
project with so many interrelated components. Coordination and monitoring at the national level
needed strong leadership which was lacking until the last two years of the project.
8.    Risks. The risks of government not increasing the ghee prices and periodically adjusting
the regulatory import duty (RID) were foreseen at appraisal. The lack of actions in a timely
manner resulted in severe setbacks in the initial stages of the project. The one single factor which
acted as disincentive for farmers to adopt non-traditional oilseed crops was the lack of timely
procurement of the crop. Although another risk of "farmers not responding to new oilseed crops
because of deficiencies in the credit system" was identified at appraisal, the on-lending credit
component failed to take off.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Physical Objectives
9.    The principal objective of achieving a substantial increase in the production of oilseed and
reduction in imports of edible oil has been accomplished, but not to the extent originally expected.
Since the project commencement was delayed, the sowing target for non-traditional oilseed was



4
scaled down at MTR from 387,000 ha (SAR) to 147,000 ha for 1995-96. The achievement was
105,000 ha (711%) without canola, but 122,000 ha (83%) with the inclusion of these double low
rapeseed and mustard varieties (canola type) which are considered to be non-traditional oilseeds.
Annex 1 provides information about the yearly planting, production and yields of the various
oilseed crops. Consequently, the local production of edible oil has increased from 0.46 million tons
to 0.54 million tons and the import of edible oil has declined from a peak of 1.9 million tons in
1995 to 1.7 million tons in 1996. Considering the currency devaluation and rising demand in
edible oil consumption (8% per annum), it is estimated that such a declining trend has already
saved the country an amount of Rs.10 billion during the fiscal year 1995-96.
10.   Research Component. Given the constraints of inadequate staff and periodic funding
shortages, the component performed reasonably well. Research scientists at Peshawar and NARC
have developed local sunflower hybrids (Aritar-93 and Peshawar-93; and PARC-92E) while
Punjab's first hybrid is in the final testing stage. The project has also achieved a modest success in
developing double low rapeseed and mustard varieties (canola type) as well as high yielding
brassica juncea (Anmol raya, Peela raya; and S-9, Agati Sarhein and Sarhein-95) type strains,
spineless safflower (Thorz-78 and Pawari-95) varieties, two soybean varieties (Kharif-93 and
Wahab-93), and two sesame (Til-89 and TS-3) varieties. Production technology packages were
formulated for oilseed crops and prototypes of new machinery, consisting of a mechanical planter
for sunflower, pneumatic planters for sunflower, a rotary hoe, threshers and cleaners, were
developed. Fabrication of these implements was taken up by the private sector during the project
period.
11.    Extension. The extension component performed poorly in the earlier phase of project
implementation. However, after PODB was established and it set up well articulated crop-wise
and niche-oriented crop maximization campaigns, the extension system improved considerably.
12.   Seed Multiplication. This component did not perform well. The project envisaged, at
full development (1996-97), production of 3,530 tons of soybean seed, 150 tons of safflower seed,
and 290 tons of mustard/rape seed. Against this, only 7% of soybean, 67% of safflower, and 23%
of mustard/rapeseed was produced in the penultimate year (1995-96) of the project. The Federal
Seed Certification Department (FSCD), strengthened under the project for certifying seeds of the
edible oil crops, was under-utilized. It certified about 54-60% of Punjab's and NWFP's
mustard/rapeseed seed target, and about 38% of safflower's in Sindh. FSCD did not receive
adequate staff, mobility, and operational funds as envisaged under the project. Seed processing
facilities of PSC and SSC were not expanded. Only three mini seed plants were established under
the project .
13.   Credit. The credit component was largely unutilized. Only ADBP was able to disburse
loans amounting to about Rs 120 million. ADBP disbursed only Rs 0.4 million as term loans,
while the remaining (99.6%) went as short-term or production loans. Most of such loans were
given for the sunflower crop. The main reasons for low levels of credit disbursement were: (i) lack
of timely availability of sunflower seed; (ii) unsatisfactory arrangements for purchasing of the
sunflower crop by the procurement agencies; and (iii) poor credit discipline among the growers
community most of whom were defaulters for other past loans which reduced bank willingness to
lend.
14.    Technical Assistance and Training. The project provided for 136 person months (pm) of
short term training in various disciplines. Against this, the actual training availed was 107.5 pm at



5
a cost of about US$ 0.5 million. A total of 87 scientists were trained in the disciplines of research
management, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), plant breeding, agronomy, post-harvest handling,
seed production, agricultural extension, plant pathology, and entomology. Eight senior scientists
and research managers undertook a study tour of California (USA) and visited oilseed related
research institutions, industries and other organizations. Trainees returned to their research
positions and the training appears to have contributed to the success of the sunflower hybrid
program.
15.    The project provided for 60 pm of short-term consultant services in breeding, soil
microbiology, plant protection, farm mechanization, oil extraction technology, and utilization of
by-products. Recruitment was delayed and the needs were re-assessed at MTR resulting in the
carrying out of 9 studies (Table 7) involving a total of 43 pm (28 pm, local and 15 pm, foreign) in
(i) M&E (4 pm), (ii) research coordination and implementation (5 pm), (iii) tripartite agreements
between oilseed extraction industry, farmers and financing institutions (5 pm), (iv) seed sector
review (5 pm), (v) technology transfer (4 pm), (vi) seed storage (5 pm), (vii) quality control of
edible oil (4 pm), (viii) by-product utilization (6 pm), and (ix) oilseed strategy (5 pm). A study on
the scope, size and rehabilitation needs of the solvent extraction industry was also carried out. The
results of these studies are summarized in Part II, Table 7.
Financial Objectives
16.    Project Costs. Actual project cost at project completion was US$ 24.14 million2 (Pak
Rs.700.78 million) (details available in Annex 2) which is 71% lower than the appraisal estimate
of US$ 84.2 million (Pak Rs.1,672.8 million) and 45% lower than the restructured project cost.
17.    Project Financing. With the cancellation of SDR2.682 million of IDA credit and
US$ 21.6 million of Bank loan, the remaining Bank funds, amounting to US$ 26.1 million,
financed about 59% of the revised cost (US$ 44.3 million). The estimate at appraisal was 61%
(Bank funds amounting to US$ 51.4 million as a ratio of the then project cost of US$ 84.2
million).
18.    Loan/Credit Utilization. Disbursement as of May 15, 1997 is US$ 15.11 million in the
IDA credit account, indicating about 90% utilization. However, considering the loan and credit
amounts, total disbursement on the same date were US$ 15.55 million which indicates 59%
utilization.
Institutional Development Objectives
19.    The objectives were partially achieved. The overall incremental staffing in all components
except the FSCD was satisfactory. The project succeeded in reviving the PODB which performed
satisfactorily until project completion. Monitoring and coordination units both at the center and in
provinces were set up as envisaged. NCBs were unable to train and make use of Agricultural
Credit Officers as planned. Project Coordination Committees (PCC) were constituted in provinces
but they seldom met resulting in poor coordination among the various provincial agencies. Only
one MTR was carried out against two planned at appraisal.
2 US$ amount was arrived at by first dividing each FY Pak Rupee cost by annual (FY) average US$:Pak
Rupee conversion rate and then adding all individual (FY) US$ costs.



6
Sectoral Policy Objectives
20.    The relevant sub-sector policy objectives were mainly in marketing which included
establishing annually minimum support prices for the various oilseed crops, deregulation of
ghee/oil prices, and periodic reviews of the Regulatory Inport Duty (RID) on import of edible oil.
These were only partially achieved prior to MTR The support prices for oilseed crops were
established annually but these were generally lower than import parity price. RID, was reviewed
periodically at long intervals only and was not phased out during the project period. For a long
time, GCP had held a major share of the ghee market and acted as price leader. Although controls
on ghee and oil prices were lifted in 1986, the GCP kept the ghee and oil prices depressed leaving
little incentive for the private entrepreneurs to participate. Following the GOP decision to disband
the GCP and deregulate ghee production, private sector oilseed processing increased substantially
providing adequate incentives to farmers to increase production.
Project Impact
21.    Since deregulation of ghee production and the MTR, there has been an increase in
domestic oilseed production. Project achievements include successful introduction of new varieties
and development of research and extension capacity. Besides achievements in the sunflower,
canola, and rapeseed/mustard crops, a few new oilseed crops like salicornia, oil palm, and jojoba
have also been introduced in the country. Of these, salicornia was tried in the last year of the
project. It has good potential for utilizing saline arid wastelands as this plant thrives on brackish
water (it was grown on the sea water on two sites for the first time in 1996) and has 32% oil
content. Also in the last year of project implementation, the double low varieties of mustard
(canola) caught on which has the potential of eventually substituting the traditional
mustard/rapeseed. Another visible impact of the project is the local development of sunflower
hybrids which are cheaper to produce and are better suited to the local conditions.
22.   The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is 25.2% as compared to 29% estimated
at appraisal. The net present value is re-estimated as Rs.4.17 billion compared to Rs.4.0 billion.
The ERR was calculated by using the actual value of incremental production and costs inclusive of
mcremental farm production costs, and costs of all project components excluding the credit
component.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   Implementation Record. The implementation performance of the project has been
variable. The on-lending component of the project hardly made any progress. Delivery of imported
sunflower hybrid seed, the country's main non-traditional oilseed crop, to farmers was often
delayed with adverse effects on crop yields. Procurement of the crop by the public sector agencies
in the earlier years was unsatisfactory. Procurement of technical assistance was also delayed
considerably.
24.   The mid-term restructuring improved performance: sowing targets of the various oilseed
crops were set at realistic levels which were nearly achieved; a major part of the credit component
was canceled; formulation of a new edible oil sub-sector strategy was undertaken; and PODB was
reactivated. A change in the policy environment midway through the project also helped: De-



7
regulation of ghee prices resulted in an increase in the farmgate prices of oilseeds; and oilseed
processors purchased the crop direct from farmers.
25.    The main factors contributing to the variable performance of the project were as follows:
(a)    Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control.  Climate has an
influence on crop acreage and yields. Prolonged wet spells at the harvest time of
sunflower in the north eastern Punjab, sudden temperature flares at sunflower's maturity
time in southern Sindh, and periodic dry spells in the Sibi-Kachhi belt of Balochistan,
adversely affected establishment of the non-traditional oilseed crops. Fluctuations in
international prices of edible oil also affected local oilseed planting.
(b)    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. The project lacked an
empowered and effective Project Director in the initial years and procurement of technical
assistance and overseas training were considerably delayed. Timely adjustments were not
made to RID. Other factors which affected the project performance were: untimely
availability of seed and fertilizer; lack of enthusiasm by the participating financial
institutions to extend loans for inputs; inadequate arrangements for purchasing of oilseed
crops; insufficient quantities of quality seed; and belated development of local sunflower
hybrids. GOP decision to disband GCP and deregulate ghee production led to adequate
incentives for farmers and improved project performance.
(c)    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control. These included
delays in providing infrastructure for support services, weak research-extension and seed
certification-extension linkages, lack of motivation among the front line extension agents,
and less than satisfactory coordination and monitoring of project activities.  Inadequate
project implementation arrangements in certain provinces, undefined line of authority for
provincial project directors, and rapid turn-over of key project staff in some cases also
adversely affected the project performance.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.    PODB has reached agreement with federal and provincial authorities for using the cess for
meeting funding requirements on a restricted but adequate scale. Based on the expected cess
collection, the borrower has also prepared a work plan for the operational phase (Appendix C).
The operational plan inter alia provides for the continuance of the provincial oilseed directorates,
introduction of a competitive research grant system, carrying out extension through PODB's field
staff, and maintaining the seed processing facilities established under the project. Proposed
activities of PODB would provide the momentum for provincial agencies to continue assisting
farmers with technical advice and high quality inputs.



8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   The Bank's input through appraisal has been substantial: two identification missions,
which included economists, agriculturists, oilseed processing specialist, and project analyst; two
preparation missions, which included econornist, agriculturists, engmeer, credit specialists, and
seeds specialist; and the appraisal mission, including an economist and an agriculturist. However,
the initial project design was overly ambitious and complex. It also underestimated the institutional
dismcentives affecting oilseed production. In retrospect, we should probably have insisted on more
basic reforms of the parastatal regime as a condition of lending. A total of 13 supervision missions
were fielded over a period of 8 years with an average duration of two weeks. The project remained
a problem project for about two years during FY93 and FY94. While the Bank's performance has
been mixed, GOP decision to disband GCP and deregulate ghee production, together with effective
Bank advice in restructuring the project at MTR and subsequent supervision, helped to tum the
project around leading to a satisfactory outcome.
28.   None of the Bank missions had an institutional specialist. Being a complex project
covering all the four provinces and with numerous agencies to be dealt with in each province, such
an expert's mput, particularly at appraisal, was desirable.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   The Borrower implemented the project generally, in line with the Staff Appraisal Report
and with assistance from the Bank. The Borrower's conmrtment to project objectives was
manifested in its Five Year Plan which highlighted the need for bridging the gap between the
supply and demand of edible oil.
30.   Policy initiatives in the oilseed sub-sector were slow to come. Support prices for the
procurement of the oilseed crops remained generally lower than the import parity price, ghee/oil
prices of GCP were not raised enough to generate interest among private entrepreneurs, and RID
could not be phased out during the project penod. Funding for the project became a constraint,
particularly toward the end of the project. Physical targets were generally achieved, when
compared to the scaled down targets established at MTR.
31.   The project was very slow to take off because the leadership in MINFAL at the project
level was weak. The team at the NMCU was unmotivated, was slow in mobilizing and releasing
funds to the provinces, could not, in a timely manner, supply sunflower hybrid seed to farmers,
and was unable to establish a monitoring mechanism to enable it to take timely corrective
measures. However, following GOP's decision to disband GCP and deregulate ghee production
and a change in the leadership at MINFAL, the Borrower's performance improved after 1994.
The new team at NMCU, in conjunction with the NARC staff, established a workable monitoring
and coordination system, recruited consultants, carried out the needed studies and arranged
overseas training for project staff. Borrower's performance has thus been mixed but overall
satisfactory. Borrower's own evaluation of the project's outcome is at Appendix B.



9
G. OUTCOME
32.    The project's outcome is rated as satisfactory on the basis of performance during the
second half of project implementation period . The necessary infrastructure is essentially in place.
Oilseed crop acreage have registered increases in the recent years. New local sunflower hybrids
have been produced. The canola crop is becoming popular with farmers and could replace the
traditional rapeseed and mustard crops in the long run The private sector oilseed processing
industry is showing signs of robustness.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
33.   A task force established by MINFAL had prepared a report on sustaining oilseed research
and development activities mitiated under NODP. MINFAL, in conjunction with the provincial
governments, has taken decisions regarding staff, funding and support facilities that are needed for
sustaining the project activities in the coming years. With PODB having been made functional, its
lead and catalyzing role should keep the provincial research and extension agencies' due focus on
the oilseed crops, as would public-private sector partnership initiatives in the seed sub-sector and
processing industry increase farmers confidence in the oilseed crops. A plan, prepared by
MINFAL, for the operational phase is at Appendix C.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.   The main lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
(a)    The project was too complex in design. It encompassed all the four provinces and
had numerous components. It lacked specificity for provinces/agro-ecological zones. In
hindsight, encouraging farmers to form "producers organizations" for addressing their crop
disposal issues and through fostering better linkages with extension agents for production
technology uptake could have assisted in better performance. NGOs' role in popularizing
oilseeds has proved to be helpful in NWFP. Such experiments could be expanded in the
future.
(b)    For maximizing oilseed production, introduction of sunflower crop was accorded
high priority. Sunflower was a new crop which needed time for farmer acceptance. As the
incorporation of a new crop in the prevalent crop cycle is not easy and is often met with
resistance, the project had established far too ambitious targets.
(c)    The responsibility for procurement of the crops remained with the GCP, a public
sector agency, which lacked the capacity to handle the procurement satisfactorily.
Monopolistic tendencies of the GCP as well as price control regimes of the Government
hampered the development of efficient marketing channels. As a result, it discouraged the
farmers m widespread adoption of non-traditional oilseeds in the initial years until



10
deregulation of ghee production permitted the private sector to start actively performing
the marketing functions.
(d)    The project assigned the role of import/production of sunflower hybrid seed to the
private sector. The research component of the project, however, was successful in
developing sunflower hybrids which were found to be cheaper and quite acceptable to
farmers. Private-public sector partnership approach would further promote the
multiplication of hybrid seeds.
(e)    Credit did not work as incentive for promotion of oilseed crops as envisioned in
the project. A major part of it had to be canceled at MTR. Past history of credit discipline
among the farming community was also a cause reluctance by the banks to provide credit.
Lack of experience and interest by the commercial banks (CBs) in extending agricultural
loans, particularly for medium and long term investments, proved to be another obstacle in
the performance of the on-lending component.
(f)    One of the major factors which helped the project in the later stages was the
change in the policy environment as ghee/oil prices were de-regulated.
(g)    The Bank's supervision missions should have been more frequent for such a
complex project to succeed. While the major factors improving project performance were
the change in the policy environment and the successful restructuring effort, the transfer of
project supervision to the Resident Mission in Islamabad appears to have been beneficial.
(h)    The project, in initial stages, suffered from lack of leadership. NMCU and
PMCUs heads were transferred rapidly and were not fully empowered.
(i)    Aggressive awareness initiatives should have been built into the project. Had
promotional campaigns through electronic and print media been built into the project,
performance could have improved as was demonstrated by the campaigns undertaken after
the MTR.



11
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives      Substantial       Partial       Nealigible     Not applicable
6')             (/)             6')             6')
Macro policies                     Q               Q               Q               0
Sector policies                    O0                              0               0
Financial objectives               O               0               0                0
Institutional development                  0               0                       0
Physical objectives                El              0               0                
Poverty reduction                  Q               O               0               0
Gender issues                      Q                                                0
Other social objectives            Q               I               Q               0
Environment objectives                             E Q             E               E
Public sector management           Q               0               0                0
Private sector development         j               0       0                       0
Other (specify)                    Q               Q               Q                Q
B. Project sustainability           Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
6')             6')             6')
C. Bank performance              Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
6()             (V)
Identification                    E                0               0
Preparation assistance             0               0               E
Appraisal                                          El              0
Supervision                        O               0               El



12
lHighly
D. Borrower performance          Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(1)             (/)            (/)
Preparation                        Q              0               0
Implementation                    Q               0               0
Covenant compliance               O               0              0
Operation (if applicable)         Q               a ]
Highlv
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
E e)  6n)  6o)
E. Assessment of outcome             3               0g              0



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                         Purpose               Approval     Status
Preceding Operations
I. Salnity Control & Reclamation (Cr 754-PAK)   lmprove drainage and reclaim soil.  1978  Completed
2. Punjab Ext. & Agnc. Dev. (Cr. 813-PAK)     Strengthen agricultural extension  1978     Completed
and improve productivity
3. Salmity Cont. & Recl. (Mardan) (Cr 877-PAK)   Improve drainage and reclaim soil.  1979  Completed
4. Sind Agncultural Extension (Cr 922-PAK)    Strengthen agricultural extension  1979     Completed
and improve productivity.
5. Gram Storage (Cr I 157-PAK)                Construct grain godowns.           1981     Completed
6. Agricultural Research (Cr. 1158-PAK)       Strengthen research facilities at the  1981  Completed
Federal level.
7. Irrigation Systems Rehab. (Cr. 1239-PAK)   Improve irrigation system.         1982     Completed
8. Balochistan Minor lrr. Agr (Cr 1243-PAK)   Construct mnor irrigation          1982     Completed
channels and develop agriculture
9. Reservoir Maint. Facilities (Ln. 2247-PAK)  Improve maintenance of Tarbela,   1983     Completed
Mangla and Chashma reservoirs
10 Fourth Drainage (Cr 1375-PAK)             Tmprove drainage and reclaim soil.  1983     Completed
11. Integrated Hill Fanning Dev (Cr. 1461-PAK)   Improve agriculture and livestock,  1984  Completed
conserve soil, reforest hillsides and
construct feeder roads.
12. Command Water Management (Cr. 1487-PAK)  Improve irngation system.           1984     Completed
13. Baloch Agr Extension (Cr 1533-PAK)        Strengthen agricultural extension  1985     Completed
and improve productivity.
14. OFWM-II (Cr 1603-PAK)                    Tmprove water courses providing     1985     Completed
water to farmers' fields.
15. SCARP Transition Pilot (Cr. 1693)        Improve irrgation/drainage.        1986      Completed
16. ADBP VI (Cr 1699/Ln. 2693-PAK)           Provide credit to farmers.          1986     Completed
17. Agr. Extension IV (Cr. 1762-PAK)          Strengthen agricultural extension  1987     Completed
and improve productivity.
18. Second Irr. Systems Rehab. (Cr 1888-PAK)    Improve irrigation system.       1988     Completed



14
Year of
Loan/credit title                         Purpose              Approval     Status
Following operations
1. Private Tubewell Dev (Cr. 2004-PAK)       Test viability of mtegrated        1989     Completed
tubewell development for
increasing agricultural
productivity.
2. Agri. Credit (Cr. 2153-PAK/ Ln. 3226-PAK)  Transform agriculture credit      1990     Completed
system into a viable system.
3. Agri. Research II (Cr. 2154-PAK)          Strengthen agricultural research   1990     Completed
capabilities in provnces.
4. OFWM Im (Cr. 2245-PAK/Ln. 3327-PAK)       Increase agricultural production   1991     Completed
through effective use of water.
5. SCARP Transition II (Cr. 2257-PAK)        Increase agricultural production   1991     Ongoing
through umproved and timely
provision of supplementary
irrigation water.
6. Env. Protection& Res. Conser. (Cr. 2383-PAK)  Strengthen environmental       1992     Ongoing
institutions and implement pilot
scale field projects.
7. Fordwah Eastem Sadiqia (Cr. 241 0-PAK)    Increase agricultural productivity  1993    Ongoing
by improving irrigation channels
and dramage.
8. Northem Res Management (Cr. 2512-PAK)     Integrate rehabilitation and       1993     Ongoing
management of watersheds.
9. Baloch. Nat. Res. Management (Cr. 2584-PAK)  Create/strengthen environmental  1994    Ongoing
mstitutions and implement pilot
scale field projects
10. Punj. Forest Sec. Dev (Cr. 747-PAK)      Establish a forestry extension    1995      Ongoing
wing, promote plantations on
private/community lands, introduce
participatory rangeland
management, and carry out
tramng/studies
11. Bal. Conumumty Irr. & Agr. (Cr. 2780-PAK)    Develop sustainable farmer    1996      Ongoing
organizations to own, efficiently
operate and maintain irrigation
systems
12. Pun. Pr. Sec. Groundwat. Dev. (Cr. 2901-PAK)  Increase the scope and       1997      Ongoing
productivitiy of Punjab's irrigation
and drainage sub-sector.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/latest
Steps in project cycle                  Date planned                   estimate
Identification                                                           September/October 1984
September/October 1985
Preparation (Project brief)                  April/May 1986              June/July 1986
(First Ex Project Summary)       February 1987                March/Apnl 1987
Appraisal (Project brief)                    November 1986               November 1987
(Final Ex. Project Summary)        November 1987
Negotiations                                 February 1988               May 1988
Board presentation                           July 1987                   June 23, 1988
April 1988
Signing                                                                  July 21, 1988
Effectiveness                                Bv October 18, 1988         April 13, 1989
Mldterm review                               November/December 1992   November 1993
Project Completion                           December 31, 1995           December 31, 1996
Credit closing                               December 31, 1996           December 31, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ M)
FY89    FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY973
Appraisal estimate         2 0      8.5    18 0     28.5    37.7    45 7       50.7    51 4    51.4
Revised estimate (MTR)     0 0      1.4      2 3      3.6     6 5      7 6     17 6    25.6   26.1
Actual                      0.0     1.4      2.3      3 6     6.5      7.9    10.3    13.0   15 5
Actual as % of appraisal     0       16       13      13       17      17       20       25     30
estimate
Actual as % of revised       0      100     100      100      100     104       58       51     59
estimate
Date of final           Credit      May 15,1997           Loan.    April 30, 1997
disbursement
3As of May 15,1997



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Appraisal target at project       Actual achievement
completion
Key Indicators           Unit                        Revised        As of end      As % of
Original     following IvMTR    1995-1996    revised target
Annual production:
Non-traditional oilseeds
Area                       ha             387,000         147,000        144,618       98
Production                 ton            579,000         243,000        123,967       51
of which sunflower:
Area                       ha             310,000         125,000         96,722       77
Production                ton             496,000         212,000        116,000       55
Average yield             kg/ha             1,600            1,700         1,199       71
Annual production
Traditional oilseeds
(Mustard/rapeseed only)
Area                       ha             235,000         425,000        318,089       75
Production                 ton            245,000         412,000        242,000       59
Average yield             kg/ha             1,043             870            761       87
Mfini-seed plants                No.                  7                3             3        100
Procurement of motorcycles       No.                 99              115            86        75
Buildings (offices, residences)  No.                205              190           180        95
Staff additions
Management (BPS 16 & above)    No.                 29               29             24       83
Field staff (extension agents,  No                186              186            156       84
credit staff, researchers)  I                          I               I _I
Technical assistance                                 60               43            43        100
Note: 1. MTR denotes midterm review.
2 sm denotes staff months.
3. BS denotes basic scale of salary.
4. Revised annual targets are at project completion m FY96-97.
5 Actual achievement on year basis for area and production.
6. Actual achievement for other indicators is cumulative
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(No indicators for project operation were established at appraisal)



17
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                   Purpose as defined              Status          Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined
I  Monitoring and        To devise a monitoring and evaluation   Completed    An improved M&E
evaluation            (M&E) system to document the                         system is now mn place.
progress of the project, enhance its
efficiency and effectiveness, and
evaluate its impact
2  Research              To devise a system for enhancing   Completed         Research coordmation
Coordination and      research coordination between                        has improved
Implementation        provinces and federal
government/agencies.
3  Tri-partite Agreement   To involve private sector in the  Completed        Tri-partite agreements
procurement of oilseed crops through a               did not become
three-way agreement between oilseed                  operative. Market
extraction mdustry, farmers, and                    forces made it
financing institutions.                              economically viable for
the oilseed extraction
industry to procure the
oilseed crop.
4  Seed Sector Review    To assess the capability of the existing   Completed  The study will prove
for Oilseed           seed production agencies (of oil crops)              useful for the seed
-m both private and public sectors and              processing industry
make plans for their improvement.
5. Technology Transfer    To review the emsting system of   Completed         More options have now
technology transfer for promotion of                become available for
oilseed crops and make plans for                    technology transfer.
improvmg its effectiveness
6  Seed Storage          To advise on designing and buildmg of  Completed     Recommendations will
small and medium sized seed storage                 be useful for the mini
to meet the country's present and                    seed plants needmg
future needs.                                        storage.
7. Quality Control of    To review the existing quality control   Completed   Measures, if adopted,
Edible Oil            system for edible oil and suggest                   will result in better
measures to improve it for providing                health for the populace.
better quality edible oil to the
consumer
8  By-product Utilization   To advise on the use of by-products of  Completed  Contains good advice
oilseed crops in manufacturing human                for animal feed
food and animal feed.                               industry.
9. Edible Oilseed        To prepare a new edible oil strategy for  Completed  Several policy scenarios
Strategy             increasing production and reducing                    are available for
dependence on edible oil imports.                   adoption.



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                    Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
I Civil works (inc. purchase of land)                        2 55                             3 77
2 Vehicles, mn/cycles and equip.                              4 81                            3 47
3 Credit                                                    41.47                             4 30
4 TA, training and studies                                    5.35                            1 47
5 Incr Salaries and allowances                               11 24                            6.76
6 Operating costs                                             4.55                            4.37
Base cost                                                 69.97
Contingencies                                             14 27
Total                                                     84.24                           24.14
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                   Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
IBRD/IDA                                                     51 40                              15.474
Co-financmg institutions
Other external resource
Domestic contnbution                                         32.80                               8 67
TOTAL                                                        84.20                              24.14
4As of March 31, 1997



19
Table 9: Re-estimated Economic Costs and Benefits
S. No.    Year       Incr. Cost  Incr. Benefit   Net Benefit
1      1988-89        133.8          0.0       (133.8)
2      1989-90        182.2         63.3        (118.9)
3      1990-91        226.0        140.3        (85.7)
4      1991-92        301.0        209.9         (91.1)
5      1992-93        323.6        285.7        (37.9)
6      1993-94        402.2        448.2          46.0
7      1994-95        550.1        652.9         102.8
8      1995-96        591.2        852.0         260.8
9      1996-97        528.2        852.0         323.8
lo      1997-98        528.2        852.0         323.8
I I     1998-99       528.2         852.0         323.8
2      1999-00        528.2        852.0         323.8
13      2000-01        528.2        852.0         323.8
14      2001-02        528.2        852.0         323.8
15      2002-03       528.2         852.0         323.8
16      2003-04        528.2        852.0         323.8
17      2004-05        528.2        852.0         323.8
1 8     2005-06        528.2        852.0         323.8
19      2006-07        528.2        852.0         323.8
20      2007-08 1      528.2        852.0         323.8
Discount Rate = 12%
NPV (Billion Pak Rs.) = 4.17
ERR(%) = 25.2



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original
Cov Present fulfmnt.   Revised
Agmt      Section    Type status   Date  fulfinnt Date     Description of covenant             Comments
Project     3.01(b)     1    CP    3/31 of              GOP/Provinces to furnish audit   enerally fulfilled on time
redit      4.01(c)     1    CP   each year             reports to IDA within nine months Occasional delays occur. FY95
of end fiscal year.           audit report from NMCU overdue.
Credit        3 01      4      C      ND                Borrower/Provinces to provide   No counterpart funds provided by
funds, facilities, services, and    GOP in FY96. PODB will provide
other resources required for the  required fuinds from its cess fund.
Project.
Credit      3 01(e)     3      C      ND                GOP and participatmg lendmg   Fulfilled.
institutions to enter mto a
subsidiary loan agreement
Credit     Schedule 5    5     C      ND                GOP to enter into Administrative Fulfilled
greement with Pakistan Banking
Council.
Credit       4.02       10    C    4/13/89              GOP to prepare and implement a    P initially prepared such
lan for strengthenig and     procurement plans. With market
expanding oilseeds procurement  iberalization, private sector has
system.                       aken over the procurement systenL
Credit       4.03       12    C    Periodic             GOP to prepare and implement a  ulfilled. RID would, however, be
plan for periodic review and  gradually phased out over time.
adjustment of regulatory import  Recently, RID was reduced by 50%
duty (RID) on edible oil.    in June 1996.
Credt        4.04      12    C    4/13/89              GOP to prepare and implement a Fulfilled. GCP units being
lan for penodic              privatized. Market mechanism is
review/adjustment of GCP retail  )perating for the oil/ghee prices.
)rice of ghee.
Credit      4 05(a)     2     C       ND                GOP to waive the 15% celling on Fulfilled. GOP's National Credit
edium-term credit.          Consultative Conmuittee is no
I_______                   ________  __________  __________________________   onger  setting   such   ceilings.
Credit      4.05(b)     2      C      ND                State Bank of Pakistan to     Fulfilled. Because of low demand,
efmance short-term credit    ADBP had to never invoke this
provided by ADBP under the   covenant.
_roject without any restriction
Credit      Schedule    5      C      ND                  stablishment of one National and Fulfilled. NMCU has since been
5(1)                                      four Provincial Coordination and  mtegrated into Pakistan Oilseed
Monitoring Units (NMCU &     Dev Board (PODB).
PMCUs).
Credit      Schedule    5     C       ND                Each province to establish a  Fulfilled with mixed success Most
5(3)                                      Provincial Coordination       PCCs fail to meet penodically.
ommittee, chaired by the    Activation of PCCs is underway.
ecretary of Agriculture.



21
Onginal
Cov. Present fulfinmt.   Revised
Agmt      Section    Type status   Date  fulfint Date      Description of covenant             Comments
'redit      Schedule    6     C      9/30/89            Borrower to review practices of  Fulfilled. Extension agents are
5(4)                                       esticide use in the project area  promoting safe use. PARC is also
d promote safe practices for    udertaking studies.
ilseed production.
Credit      Schedule    9      C    12/91 and           NMCU and PMCUs to organize  Fulfilled. A comprehensive mid-
5(5)                   12/93              comprehensive reviews of the    term review took place in the fifth
project at the end of the third and ear.
fifth years.
Credit     Schedule 3    5     C      ND                Borrower to employ consultants  Consultants were employed
Sec II                                     whose qualifications and      following IDA guidelines.
experience shall be satisfactory to
IA.
Covenant Type:
I = Accounts/audit                                8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial perfonnance/revenue generation      9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds        10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                          11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
allocation
5 = Management aspects of the project            12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                      13 = Other
7 = hnvoluntary resettlement
Present status:                                  Fulfillment Date:
C  = covenant complied with                      ND = Date not defined
CD = complied with after delay
NC = not complied with
SOON = compliance expected reasonably short time
CP = complied with partially
NYD = not yet due
Covenant Effectiveness
I       The selection of covenants was appropnate at the time of appraisal. However, because of overall change in
the public policy and market environments, a few covenants became superfluous. For instance, covenants on oilseeds
procurement system (DCA, 4.02) and adjustment of retail ghee prices (DCA, 4.04) are no longer necessary. Also
covenants on credit ceiling waivers (DCA, 4.05) are redundant because of the macro level financial sector refonrs the
Borrower has since initiated.
2.      There are no other issues relating to compliance with covenants.



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No deviations from applicable Operational Manual Statements were noted.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Revised                  Actual
Stages of project cycle  Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$        Weeks         US$
Preparation to appraisal     NA          NA          NA           NA         132 6        87.3
Appraisal                    NA          NA          NA           NA          58.5        136.6
Negotiations through Board
through approval             NA          NA          NA           NA          4.9         11 6
Supervision                  NA          NA          NA          NA          153.1        347.3
Completion                   NA          NA          NA           NA          8.11        4.9'
TOTAL                        NA          NA          NA          NA          357.2        587.7
NA = not available from the MIS data
las of 5/14/97; MIS data as of 6/30/97 may show a slightly higher figure



23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project cycle  Month/year    Number  Days   Specialized    hnplem-   Develop-   Types of
of      m      staff skills    entation   ment    problems
persons  field   represented5    status    Objectives      6
Through appraisal
Identification       Sep./Oct. 1984       5      24      ECO, AG,         ---                    --
PrA, OPS
Sep./Oct 1985       2       26      ECO, AG
Preparation          June/July 1986       6       31     ECO,ENG,
AG,CR,
SEEDS
Mar./April 1987     3       11      AG, CR          ---        --
Appraisal through
Board approval
Appraisal            November 1987        6       29      ECO, AG         _           _
Supervision
July 1988           2       7         ECO           -           -
May/June 1989       3       17        ECO           2           2         F,M
March 1990          2       20      ECO, PA         2           2          -M
November 1990       2       14      ECO,PA          3           2          F,M
September 1991      2       8       ECO, FR         2           2          M
June/July 1992      3       21      AG, FR          3           3         T,M
September 1992      2       12      AG, FR          3           3         T,M
May 1993            4       16   AG, FR, ECO        3           3         T,M
November 1993       4       7    AG, ECO, FR        3           3         T,M
July 1994           2       12     AG,AGB           S           S           T
March 1995          1       17        AG            S           S           T
December 1995       2       19      AG, MO          S           S           F
July 1996           1       12        AG            S           S           F
Completion           Nov /Dec 1996       2        17      AG,FR    I                        I _
5AG = Agriculturist, AGB = Agribusiness Specialist; CR = Credit Specialist; ECO = Economist; ENG = Engineer,
FR = Forester; MO = Monitoring Officer (Borrower's representative), OPS = Oilseed Processmg Specialist;
PA = Projects Adviser, PrA = Project Analyst, SEEDS = Seeds Specialist.
6 F = Fmancial, M = Management, T = Technical.



24
ANNEX 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2973-PAK/CREDIT 1936-PAK)
Area under Oilseed Crops
(Thousand Hectares)
Crop          FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95       FY96     FY97*
Sunflower
NWFP                 0.865     1.575     2.609     2.565      3.112     3.320     5 079     6.250
Punjab              41.037    34 854    50.587    37.605    32.275    52 125    57 859
Sindh                5700    11 500    12.300    13.900    14.100    18200    29000
Balochistan          0.000     1 600     2.500     2.700      3 000     2 823     6 072     6.000
Total Sunflower     47.602    49.529    67.996    56.770    52.487    76.468    98.010 
Soybean         T          1         1_1
NWFP                 2.065     3.238 r   4.679      5.812     5 600     5 200     3 350     5.520
Punjab               0 304     0 304     0.101     0.445      0 097     0 097     0.000
Smdh                 0.000     0.020     0.661     0.718      0.500     0 150     0.282     1.010
Balochistan          0.000     0.000     0.000     0 000      0 000     0 000     0 000
Total Soybean        2.369     3.562     5.441     6.975      6.197     5.447     3.632
Safflower
NWFP                 0.000     0.000     0 000      0.000     0 000     0.000     0.000
Punjab               0 000     0.000     0.000     0 000      0.000     0.000     0.000
Sindh                0.450     0.374     0.380     0 618      1100      0.405     1.840
Balochistan          0 000     0.600     1 000     I 000      1 041     1.050     1.052     0.640
Total Safflower      0.450     0.974     1.380     1.618     2.141      1.455     2.892
Canola
NWFP                 0.000     0.000     0 000     0 000      0 000     0.000     4.872    11.740
Punjab               0.000     0.000     0 000     0 000      0.000     0.000    12.140    80.940
Smdh                 0.000     0.000     0.000     0 000      0.000     0.000     0.000
Balochistan          0.000     0.000     0 000     0 000      0.000     0.000     0.000     4.000
Total Canola         0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000    17.012
Rape/Mustard                _
NWFP                30.100    42.300    35.200    37 100    29 900    34.800    29 928    16.390
Punjab             157 700   155.000   144.800   132.200   129.200   143.000   147.000
Sindh               76.300    76.400    75.400    76.200    76.700    83.500    83 400
Balochistan          0.000    29.800    31.095    32 057    34 142    36.422    42.400    21.000
Total Rape/Must.   264.100   303.500   286.495   277.557   269.942   297.722   302.728
Total All Crops    314.521   357.565   361.312   342.920   330.767   381.092   424.274
* UptoApril30, 1997



25
ANNEX 1 (Continued)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OELSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2973-PAK/CREDIT 1936-PAK)
Oilseed Crops Production
(Thousand Metric Tons)
Crop          FY90     FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97*
Sunflower         _                   _                            _        r  L_7_1_1 _1
NWFP                 1105      1833      2 858     3.326    4 045     4 253      7 263     8.750
Punjab              32 000    58 378    72.000    45.000    38.000    79 000    110.000 |    _
Smdh                 4400    10.300    10.800 |  12200    12.600    18200 |   32 000 _        _
Balochistan          0 000     1.600     2.500    2.835     3.300     3.105      7286 |
Total Sunflower     37.505    72.111    88.158    63.361    57.945   104.558    156.549 |
Soybean                                                                               _
NWFP                 2.255     4.857     5 772     6.973    4 480     6 410      4.200     7 179
Punjab               0.270     0.400     0 090    0 395     0.120     0 120      0.000
Sindh                0.000     0.016     0 628    0 100     0.100     0.190      0.289
Balochistan          0.000     0.000     0 000    0 000     0 000     0.000      0 000
Total Soybean        2.525     5.273    6.490     7.468     4.700     6.720      4.489
Safflower            ==
NWFP                 0.000     0 000     0 000    0.000     0.000     0.000      0 000
Punjab               0.000     0 000     0.000    0 000     0.000     0.000      0.000
Smdh                 0.234     0 198    0.201     0.366     0.475     0.400      0 000
Balochistan          0.000     0450      0.750    0.800     0.911     0.919      0 934
Total Safflower      0.234     0.648    0.951 1   1.166     1.386     1.319 1    0.934
Canola            _         |         r_r           _ r
NWFP                 0000o    0.000      0.000    0.000     0.000     0000       4.800    11.622
Punjab               0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000     0 000     0 000     11.994
Sindh                0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000     0.000     0 000      0.000
Balochistan          0.000     0 000     0 000    0 000     0 000     0.000   Awaited
Total Canola         0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000     0 000     0.000     16.794
Rape/Mustard
NVWTP               18.800    20.500    16.500    17.600    14.400    16.500    11 800     8.195
Punjab             146.600   143.200   137.700   118.200   130.300   135.000    142 000
Sindh               44 200    44.400    46.000    44.800    45.000    51.100    59.100
Balochistan          0.000    18.625    20.212    22.440    25.606    34.601    41.340
Total Rape/Must.  209.600   226.725   220.412   203.040   215.306   237.201    254.240 1
Total All Crops    249.864   304.757   316.011   275.035   279.337   349.798    433.006
* UptoApril30,1997



26
ANNEX 1 (Continued)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2973-PAK/CREDIT 1936-PAK)
Oilseed Crops Yield
(Metric Tons per Hectare)
Crop         FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93     FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97*
Sunflower              _  _
NWFP                 1.162    1.164     1.095     1 297     1 300    1.281 7   1.430      1.400
Punjab               0.780    1.675     1.423     1.196     1 177    1 516      1.900
Sindh                0772     0 896     0.878     0.878    0.894     1 000      1.103 1
Balochistan                   1 000     1 000     1 050     1.100    1 100      1.200
Avge. Sunflower     0.788     1.456     1.297     1.116     1.104    1.367      1.597
Soybean                              ________
NWFP                 1.092    1.500     1.233     1.200     0.800    1 233      1.254     1 300
Punjab              0.888     1 315     0 891     0 887     1.237    1.237      0 000 I_
Sindh                         0.800     0 950     0 139    0.200     1.267      1 025
Balochistan         0 000     0.000     0.000     0.000    0 000     0 000      0.000
Aee. Soybean         1.066    1.480     1.193     1.071     0.758     1.234     1.236
Safflower
NWFP                 0.000    0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000      0.000
Punjab              0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000      0.000
Sindh               0.520     0 529     0.528     0.592    0.432     0 988
Balochistan          0.000    0.750      0.75     0.800     0.875    0.875      0 888
Avge. Safflower     0.520     0.665     0.689     0.721     0.647    0.906      0.888
Canola
NWFP                 0 000    0 000     0.000     0.000     0.000    0 000      0.985     0 990
Punjab              0.000     0 000     0 000     0 000     0.000    0 000      0 988
Sindh               0.000     0.000     0 000     0.000    0 000     0.000
Balochistan         0.000     0.000     0 000     0.000     0 000    0.000            I
Avge. Canola        0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000      0.987
RapetMustard
NWFP                0.493     0.485     0 469     0.474     0.482    0 475      0.394     0 500
Punjab               0.930    0.924     0.951     0.894     1.009    0.944      0 965
Sindh               0.579     0.588     0 610     0.587     0.587    0.612      0.709
Balochistan          0.000    0.625     0.650     0.700     0.750    0.950      0.975
Avge. Rape/Mus.      0.794    0.747     0.769     0.732     0.798    0.798      0.840
Avge. All Crops      0.794    0.852     0.875     0.802     0.845    0.918      1.021
*Up to Apnl 30, 1997



27
ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2973-PAK/CREDIT 1936-PAK)
Project Expenditures
(Rupees in Millions)
Item           FY90   F Y91   FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY977   Total
NMCU/NARC/FSCD
Civil Works              0.76     1.65    0.03     0.25     0.04     0.00     0.00     0.00     2.73
Vehicles, Motorcycles    0.83    2.51     3 22     2 16     1.36     7.06     0.60     1 97    19.71
and Equipment
Credit                   0 00    0.00     0.00     0 00     0.00     0 00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Techmcal Assistance,     0.13    0.13     2 01     5 58     8.80     6.22    10.28     2.14    35.29
Training and Studies  L__l l_
Incremental Salarnes     0.45    0.94     2.05     2.72     3 18     5.52     4.22     4.08    23.16
and Allowances                        I_I_I
Operating Costs         0.71     2 59     2 24     3.68     6.11     3.40     2 78     3.48    24.99
Sub-Total NMCU          2.88     7.82     9.55    14.39    19.49    22.20    17.88    11.67   105.88
NWFP
Civil Works             0.92     1.83     3.38     1.66     3 41     5.09    12.27     1.33    29.89
Vehicles, Motorcycles    1.72    4.55     2.18     2.76     1.14     3.45     3.31     6.19    25.30
and Equipment
Credit                  0 00     0 00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0 00     0 00     0.00
Technical Assistance,   0 00     0 00     0.00     0 00     0.00     0.00     0 00     0 00     0.00
Training and Studies
Incremental Salaries    2.38     4.83     6.17     7 10     7.94     9 33     9.74     5 47    52.96
and Allowances
Operating Costs          0.66    2.53     2.51     3.75     4.24     5 83     8.40    15.64    43.56
Purchase of land         0.00    0.10     0.20     0.00     0.00     1.11     0.04     0.00     1.45
Sub-Total NWFP          5.68    13.84    14.44    15.27    16.73    24.81    33.76    28.63   153.16
Punjab 
Civil Works              1.94    4 41     2.70     4.39     2.53     0.34     0.77     0.00    17.08
Vehicles, Motorcycles    3.72    5.16     3 92     1.14     1.02     1.26     2.00     4.72    22.94
and Equipment                                                    I
Credit                  0.00     0 00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Technical Assistance,   0.00     0 00     0.00     0.00     0 00     0.00     0 00     1.25     1.25
Training and Studies                           I                                            I
Incremental Salaries     0 87    3.38     4.37     5.71     6.81     7.34     9.66     2.61    40.75
and Allowances                                                            I
Operating Costs          0.25     1 .16   1.72     2.04       2.19   2.99     3.91     4.67    18.93
Sub-Total Punjab        6.78    14.11    12.71    13.28    12.55    11.93    16.34    13.25   100.95
7 Until December 31, 1996.



28
ANNEX2 CONTINUED)
Item          FY90   F Y91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY978   Total
Sindh                _ _  _   _  _ _  _ _  _    _ _ __            _ _    _ _  __            _ _
Civil Works            0.00     1 49     3 25    4.96     8 55    1.11     8 34    0 00    27.70
Vehicles, Motorcycles   4.56    1.75     2 63    6 60     1 86    0 00     0.54    0.26    18.20
and Equipment               I                         I
Credit                  0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0 00    0.00     0 00    0 00     0.00
Technical Assistance,   0.00    0 27     1.15    0.79     2 01    1.45     1 48     118     8 33
Training and Studies
Incremental Salaries    1 15    3.79     6 93    7 71     9.68    10 06   10 48    6 02    55.82
and Allowances
Operating Costs         0.59    1 57    2.91    4.76      4 87    4.47     4 95    3 33    27.45
Sub-Total Sindh         6.30    8.87    16.87   24.82    26.97    17.09   25.79    10.79   137.50
Balochistan                                                            I
Civil Works             0 00    0 00     0 00    2 25     0.00    9.85    12.74    5.88    30.72
Vehicles, Motorcycles   0.76    1 39     0 00    0.53     4 08    0.72     0 00    0 00     7.48
and Equipment               I                         I
Credit                  0.00    0.00     0 00    0.00     0.00    0 00    0.00     0.00     0 00
Techmcal Assistance,    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
Trammiig and Studies                                          I
Incremental Salaries    0.12    1 74    2.52     3 10     3 54    5.40     4 88    2 71    24.01
and Allowances                                                 _
Operating Costs         0.32    0.10     1.25    5.26     2.75    0 85    2.95     2.86    16.34
Sub-Total Baloch.       1.20    3.23    3.77    11.14    10.37    16.82   20.57    11.45    78.55
ADBP                                                                   I
Credit                 0.05   22.69    14.20    6.28      1 83    9.05   56 93     8.78   119.81
Sub-Total ADBP         0.05   22.69    14.20    6.28      1.83    9.05    56.93    8.78   119.81
N C B s                                        _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Credit                 0.00     0 00    2.83     2.10     0.00    0.00     0 00    0.00     4.93
Sub-Total NCBs         0.00     0.00    2.83    2.10      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     4.93
Pakistan             _                _ _  __          _        _
Civil Works             3.62    9.38     9.36   13.51    1453    16.39    3412     721   108.12
Vehicles, Motorcycles    11.59    15 36    11.95    13.19  9 46    12 49   6 45    13.14    93 63
and Equipment                                                  _
Credit                 0.05    22.69    17 03    8 38     1.83    9 05    56.93    8.78   124.74
Techmcal Assistance,   0.13     0.40     3.16    6 37    10 81    7 67    11.76    4.57    44 87
Trammg and Studies                   I
Incremental Salaries   4 97   14 68   22.04    26.34    31 15   37.65    38 98   20 89   196.70
and Allowances     _
Operating Costs        2.53     7.95    10 63    19.49   20.16    17.54   22.99    29.98   131.27
Purchase of land        0 00    0.10     0 20    0 00     0.00    1.11     0.04    0.00     1.45
Total Pakistan        22.89    70.56    74.37   87.28    87.94   101.90   171.27    84.57   700.78
I US$ = PRs           21 45    22.42    24 85   25 96   30.16    30 85    33 57    37 67
Total Pak (USS M)       1.07    3.15     2.99    3.36     2.92    3.30     5.10    2.25    24.14
8 Until December 31, 1996.



Appendix A
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1936-PAKILN. 2973-PAK)
Implementation Completion Report Mission, November/December 1996
Aide Memoire
A. Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs Rashed ul Qayyum (Bank staff) and Abdul Qaiyum
Sheikh (consultant) reviewed, from November 18 to December 4, 1996, the implementation
experience of the National Oilseed Development Project (NODP) with a view to preparing its
implementation completion report (ICR). The mission met relevant officials of the Pakistan Oilseed
Development Board (PODB) and Federal Seed Certification Department (FSCD) in the Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Livestock (MINFAL), research scientists of the National Agricultural
Research Centre (NARC)'s NODP component, and NODP officials of the Provincial Agricultural
Departments, and made field visits to assess project impact. While in the field, the mission met
farmers to ascertain their level of awareness about various oilseed crops and the applicable
technological packages, and observe the standing oilseed crops in farmers' fields as well as
research and adaptive trials. The mission also visited some buildings and other facilities
constructed under the project. A wrap up meeting, chaired by Mr. Mahbub Ahmad, Secretary,
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock, was held on December 4, 1996 to discuss this aide
memoire. The mission thanks all the concerned staff for promptly furnishing to the mission the
needed information and overwhelming hospitality extended to it.
B. The Project
2.     Project Objectives. The principal objective of the project was to achieve a substantial
increase in the production of oilseed, particularly non-traditional oilseed, and to reduce imports of
edible oil and meal, and thereby contribute to improve the country's external balance. Another
objective was to help increase and stabilize farm incomes through the intensification and
diversification of cropping patterns. These objectives were to be achieved through support for
research, extension, and seed multiplication, and providing funds for incremental production and
investment lending by the nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) and  the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP). The main components of the project were as follows:
(a)    Research. Research programs under the project were to focus on development of
varieties suited to local conditions, improved agronomic practices, adaptation of farm
machinery, and improved linkages between research and extension through outreach trials
at government farms and farmers' fields. To this end, the NARC and provincial research



systems were to be strengthened by providing additional staff, technical assistance,
traiing, and physical facilities.
(b)    Extension. At inception of the project, the training and visit (T&V) system of
extension was already in vogue in the provinces of Punjab, Sindh and Balochistan and
parts of NWFP. As the system focused on the major crops, this project attempted to have
it cover oilseed crops also by providing additional staff, technical assistance, training and
other physical and support facilities.
(c)    Seed Multiplication.  The project aimed at supporting  the production of
improved soybean, safflower, rape/mustard (largely by the public sector seed industry),
soybean and sunflower seed (by encouraging the private sector) because of seed industry's
general neglect for the oilseeds. Modification of existing seed-processing plants in the
public sector in Punjab and Sindh was provided for, while a small new plant was to be
installed in Balochistan. The project provided incremental staff, vehicles and equipment,
laboratories, stores, and incremental operating inputs for pre-basic/basic and foundation
seed production by the oilseed research centers as well as for seed multiplication
arrangements by the provincial seed agencies to achieve the objective. In addition, Federal
Seed Certification Departnent was provided with additional staff and vehicles to
strengthen the certification process for oilseeds.
(d)    Credit.   As the financial institutions handling agricultural credit were
experiencing a modest success with their supervised credit system, prior to the launching
of the project, NCBs had prepared plans for expanding their supervised credit schemes to
provide greater support for oilseed development. ADBP also prepared a plan for oilseed
lending while it already had the necessary geographical coverage for providing the
supervised credit. The project supported these programs through provision of funds for
incremental short-tern (ST) production and medium/long term (MLT) investment lending
by NCBs and for incremental ST lending by ADBP.
(e)    Co-ordination and Monitoring. Four provincial monitoring and coordination
units (PMCUs) and a federal unit, called the national monitoring and coordination unit
(NMCI) and headed by the Oilseed Commissioner, were to be established to coordinate
and monitor project activities. The main function of the federal unit was to coordinate
provincial activities and provide secretarial services to the Pakistan Oilseed Development
Board while the provincial units were to prepare annual work programs and budgets in
collaboration with the implementing agencies and monitor progress and help resolve
problems.
(f)    Training and Technical Assistance. Various research centers were to receive
technical assistance in specialized fields. Selected scientists were to be sent on secondment
to oilseed research centers in countries with conditions similar to those in Pakistan. To
improve extension, specialized courses in oilseed production technology were to be
provided for agricultural staff locally. Short courses within the country and study tours
abroad were also to be undertaken.
3      A mid-term review (MTR) of the project was carried out in 1993 following a two tier
approach. An MTR report prepared by a group of consultants was discussed at a national
workshop held in May 1993. The main findings of the MTR process were: (i) a number of critical
2



assumptions of the project designed in 1988 were no longer valid; (ii) in terms of relevance,
objectives of production expansion and crop diversification were valid if economically justified, but
import substitution at a net cost to the economy was not valid; and (iii) in terms of implementation
progress, the project had significantly failed to achieve its original objectives. The MTR, therefore,
recommended that a new edible oil strategy with an overall objective of decreasing public
expenditures on the import of edible oil and including actions such as demand management,
expansion of traditional oilseeds and increased role of the private sector be prepared. Because the
credit component of the project had failed to take off, the MTR also recommended that GOP
should request IDA to cancel all except about US$ 3 million of the balance of the original on-
lending credit component of US$ 29.3 million. As a result, US$ 25.4 million were canceled on
January 3, 1994.
4.    Project Cost. The project, planned to be implemented over a period of about 8.5 years
(from July 1988 to December 1996), was estimated to cost, including physical and price
contingencies, US$ 84.2 million (Pak Rs. 1,672.8 million). A Bank loan of US$ 31.4 million and
IDA credit of SDR14.5 million (US$ 20 million) were to finance about 61% of project costs. The
rest of the cost was to be met by Govermnent (15%), NCBs and ADBP (21.5%), and (farmers
2 5%). As per recommendation of MTR, the following loan/credit amounts were canceled on
January 3, 1994: (i) SDR2.682 million from Credit 1936-PAK; and (ii) US$ 21.6 million from
Loan 2973-PAK). Thereafter, the total loan/credit amount of US$ 51.5 million was reduced to
US$ 26.1 million equivalent (IBRD loan of US$ 9.8 million and IDA credit of SDR11.818
million, which was approximately equivalent to US$ 16.3 million).
5.    Loan/Credit Utilization. Disbursements as of December 1, 1996 were US$ 14.6 million
in the IDA Credit account, indicating about 90% utilization. However, considering the loan and
credit amounts, total disbursements on the same date were US$ 14.9 million which indicate 57%
utilization. Province and/or entity wise utilization is given below:
Fi2ures in US$, millions
Allocation Disbursement % Utilization
Federal (NMCU/NARC/FSCD)           8.20         4.25          52
Punjab                             3.43         2.22          65
Sindh                              4.54         2.43         54
NWFP                               3.02         1.57          52
Balochistan                        1.64         2.85         174
Banks (ADBP/CBs)                   3.00         1.61          54
Unallocated                        2.27         0.00           0
Total                      26.10        14.92          57
6.    Legal Covenants. Legal covenants were generally fulfilled. There were occasional delays
in the submission of audit reports and thus the covenants related to audit have at times been
complied with partially. A few covenants became superfluous though because of changes in the
governmuent pricing and procurement policies and financial sector's adjustments. For instance,
covenants on oilseeds procurement system (DCA, 4.02) and adjustment of retail ghee prices (DCA,
4.04) are no longer necessary. Also covenants on credit ceiling waivers (DCA, 4.05) are redundant
because of the macro level financial sector reforms the Borrower has since initiated.
3



C. Implementation Experience and Results
7.    Implementation Record. The implementation record of the project has been variable. The
on-lending component of the project did not take off from the beginming. Delivery of the imported
sunflower hybrid seed, the country's main non-traditional oilseed crop established thus far, to
farners was often delayed with adverse effects on crop production yields. In the earlier years of the
project, procurement of the crop by the public sector agencies, at support pnces determined by the
government, was invariably delayed resulting in depressed crop acreage in the following year.
Procurement of technical assistance was also delayed considerably. The mid-term restructuring of
the project entailed changes m project design which included cancellation of a major part of the
credit component, formulation of a new edible oil sub-sector strategy, bringing on board
expeditiously of the required technical experts to prepare critical studies, and re-activation of the
Pakistan Oilseed Development Board (PODB). Midway through the project, the policy
environment also changed. De-regulation of ghee prices resulted in sharp increases in the farmgate
prices of oilseeds which enhanced farmers' motivation to put larger areas under oilseed crops.
Oilseed processors set up their marketing channels to lift the oilseed crop. PODB orchestrated its
extension and technology campaigns. Thus, an overall enabling environment caused both push and
pull phenomena to bring the project close to achieving the project objectives and restructured
oilseed production targets.
8.     Project Costs. Actual project cost at project completion was Pak Rs.661.12 million
(US$ 23.14 million1) which is 73% lower than the appraisal estimate of Pak Rs. 1,672.8 million
(US$ 84.2 million). When compared to the estimated cost resulting from restructuring of the
project, which is Pak Rs.742.9 million (US$ 24.63 million2) as per revised PC-1, the actual cost is
only 6% lower.
9.     Project Financing.  With the cancellation of SDR2.682 million of IDA credit and
US$ 21 6 million of Bank loan, the Bank funds, amounting to US$ 26.1 million, financed about
31% of total cost as against 61% estimated at appraisal.
D. Main Findings
10.   Research Component. Given the constraints of inadequate staff and periodic funding
shortages, the component performed reasonably well.
(a)    Breeding. Efforts to develop hybrid seed in the public sector began fairly late
because the private sector was expected to play an aggressive role which it did not.
However, because of high unit cost and non-development of locally adapted inbred lines,
the private sector resorted to happily keep on importing foreign hybrids. This led to
arousal of mterest among the NODP breeders to produce equally competitive, if not better
1 Calculated on the basis of annual average US$:Pak Rupee ratio for project period fiscal years.
2 Calculated on the basis of annual average UC$:Pak Rupee ratio of FY94.
4



performing, local hybrids. Research scientists at Peshawar and NARC took lead in
developing the first local sunflower hybrids (Aritar-93 and Peshawar-93; and PARC-92E)
while Punjab's first hybrid is in the final testing stage. At project closing, local hybrids
would account for about 10-15% of the total country requirement, and are likely to reach
above 50% within two to three years provided phased transfer of seed multiplication to the
private sector seed companies is pursued vigorously in the spirit of public-private sector
partnership. A sound beginning has already been made by NARC and NWFP by signing
agreements with the private sector seed companies.
(b)    The project also achieved a modest success in developing double low rapeseed and
mustard varieties (canola type) as well as high yielding brassica juncea (Anmol raya,
Peela raya; and S-9, Agaft Sarhemn and Sarhein-95) type strains, spineless safflower
(Thorz-78 and Pawarz-95) varieties, two soybean varieties (Kharrf-93 and Wahab-93), and
two sesame (Til-89 and TS-3) varieties. Varietal selection and development work for other
oilseeds, whether edible (groundnut, for example) or non-edible (linseed, castor, and
jojoba, for example), was also attempted.
(c)    Varietal Testing. National Uniform Yield Trial (NUYT) program was launched
earlier on in the project life and continues to provide good service to the researchers
community. Any variety developed by a group, anywhere in the oilseed research system, is
fed into the NUYT and data on its performance are collected through the collaborating
research stations/centers by a central NUYT group at NARC. NUYT trials have now
crossed the hundred mark on an annual basis. Each province and NARC kept a good mix
of on-station and off-station varietal testing and adaptive work with the help of
interdisciplinary scientists. Research planning, annual oilseed scientists moots, and
discussion of NUYT data are some of the regular activities which keep the research system
on its feet and responsive to emerging demands.
(d)    Production Technologies.  For the five oilseed crops mandated to NODP
researchers, production technology packages were formulated based on the experiments
and analyses carried out m almost every discipline of agricultural sciences. The project-
led research system has been producing about a dozen new and/or updated brochures every
year. On an average, 10 different but new findings are incorporated into such brochures
every year.  Prototypes of new machinery, consisting of a mechanical planter for
sunflower, pneumatic planters for sunflower, a rotary hoe, threshers and cleaners, were
developed and fabrication started by the private sector during the project period.
(e)    Most project staff firmly believe in the virtues of inter-disciplinary research. To
reach this goal, the project provided numerous opportunities: overseas training and study
tours; traveling seminars within the country and at the door steps of the ultimate users of
research -- the farmers; crop survey studies; and diagnostic surveys to help determine
farmers' problems which needed to be addressed on priority.
11.    Extension. Since the main objective of the extension component was to maximize oilseed
production, and targets were fixed for the various oilseed crops, initially ambitious though,
performance of this component is generally seen in the perspective of achieving quantitative
targets. Other exogenous factors, such as price distortions and excessive public sector reliance on
procurement, which tended to hamper the adoption of non-traditional oilseeds, were responsible for
extension component failing to click before the mid-term review of the project. However, when
5



the crop targets were scaled down following the MTR, and a functional PODB was established
which focused on well articulated crop-wise and niche-oriented maximization campaigns, the entire
extension system started falling in step. The scaled down targets were nearly achieved in the
cropping year 1995-96: 83% in the case of cumulative area for all non-traditional oilseeds
(including canola), and 78% in the case of sunflower area. The new non-traditional "canola" was
added to NODP's mandate in the closing years and it is on the verge of taking off (about 0.1
million ha. are estimated to have been planted during the current winter season). Traditional
rape/mustard achieved 73% of the area target last year.
12.   Notable failures were in the safflower and soybean crops. Performance also varied
amongst provinces. Lack of proper coordination, frequent transfers of project directors and non-
availability of key staff were the more likely causes for under-performance. A redeeming feature
of the project is that the extension agents returning to their main public service after the closure of
NODP would pave the way for better receptivity and understanding of oilseed crops by the
extension services than before when only major crops (wheat, rice, cotton, etc.) were talked about.
13.    Seed Multiplication. Seed multiplication seriously lagged behind. This activity was to be
carried out at departmental farms and through registered growers. Since the planting targets of the
various oilseed crops were partially met, and that also late in the project implementation period, it
signifies a rather lack luster performance of the seed multiplication component. The project
envisaged, at full development (1996-97), production of 3,530 tons of soybean seed, 150 tons of
safflower seed, and 290 tons of mustard/rape seed. Against this, only 7% of soybean, 67% of
safflower (thanks to a last minute safflower seed resource revival campaign launched by the PODB
in 1995), and 23% of mustard/rapeseed was produced in the penultimate year (1995-96) of the
project.
14.   The Federal Seed Certification Department (FSCD), strengthened under the project for
certifying seeds of the edible oil crops, was under-utilized for its certification services of at least
the open pollinated type seeds. Of the mentionable certification, Punjab had about 54% of its
mustard/rapeseed seed target certified by FSCD, Sindh about 38% of safflower seed, and NWFP
about 8% of soybean seed in addition to about 60% of its mustard/rapeseed. FSCD did not receive
adequate staff, mobility, and operational funds as envisaged under the project. Seed processing
facilities of Punjab and Sindh Seed Corporations were not expanded either. As a result of project's
restructuring, seven mini seed plants were slashed to three which were procured only during the
last year of the project. Operations of these mini-seed plants have yet to commence and their
gradual phasing out in favor of private sector operations has to be ensured in cohort with the
private seed companies picking up the seed multiplication and marketing of open pollinated crops
also.
15.    Credit. The credit component did not move at all. Only ADBP was able to disburse loans
amounting to Rs 112 million. NCBs, negligible only. ADBP disbursed only Rs 0.4 million as
term loans, while the remaining (99.6%) went as short-term or production loans. Most of such
loans were given for the sunflower crop. The main reasons given for abysmally low lending were:
lack of timely availability of sunflower seed; unsatisfactory arrangements for lifting of the
sunflower crop by the procurement agencies; poor credit discipline among the growers community
most of whom were defaulters for other past loans. But, perhaps, an overwhelming reason was the
genuinely low demand for credit by the oilseed growers. On top of it, ADBP's reluctance to lend in
areas where the recovery rates were the poorest in the country and NCBs' failure to timely recruit
Agriculture Credit Officers did not help in moving the credit component.
6



E. Project Impact
16.    Although the project failed to achieve the various quantitative targets, as envisaged at
inception (CY 1988), it did produce an impact in terms of raising the awareness of public, opinion
leaders, planners, and farmers for planting oilseed crops on much larger areas. Following the
restructuring of project in 1993, the targets were scaled down and a more realistic edible oil
strategy was formulated. Consequently, during the last year of the project, the revised targets for
oilseed crops have been met to the extent of about 71%. The irnport of edible oil has come down
from a peak of 1.9 million tons (1995) to 1.7 million tons this year, and the local production has
risen from 0 46 million tons to 0.54 million tons during the same period. Country's total import
bill of edible oil has witnessed a declining trend -- after hitting a record Rs 31 billion in 1996, it
has come down to Rs 30 billion. Considering the currency devaluation and rising demand in oil
consumption (above 8%), it is estimated that such declining trend has already saved the country Rs
10 billion.
17.   New oilseed crops, like salicornia, oil palm and jojoba are being introduced.  Of these,
salicaornia is a new wonder plant which thrives on highly brackish water (it is being grown on the
sea water on two sites in Paklstan for the first time this year) and has 32% oil content. An
aggressive campaign during the current rabi season was launched to plant double low varieties of
mustard (canola) over large areas (five to six times that of last year, 1995-96). In the event of
extensive adoption of canola in the farming systems, a long-term impact of the project would be an
eventual substitution of traditional mustard/rapeseed with this non-traditional oilseed. Another
visible impact of the project is the local development of sunflower hybnds which are cheaper to
produce and are better suited to the local environments than the expensive imported hybrids.
Institutionally, the dormant Pakistan Oilseed Development Board (PODB) was activated and a
number of studies on various aspects of oilseeds, namely seed storage, quality control of edible
oils, technology transfer, monitoring and evaluation, tripartite agreements and a sector study were
carried out. In order to reap the long-term impact, PODB needs to be sustained by allowing a
reasonable cess on the domestic production as edible oil imports, which is the only source of cess
so far, will start declining.
F. Major Factors Affecting the Project
18    Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. Climate has an influence on
crop acreage and yields. Prolonged wet spells at the harvest time of sunflower in the North Eastern
Punjab, sudden temperature flares at sunflower's maturity time in Southern Sindh, and periodic dry
spells in the Sibi-Kachhi belt of Balochistan, as is the case this year (1996 autumn sunflower
crop), adversely affected a smooth take-off of this leading non-traditional oilseed crop.
Fluctuations m international prices of edible oil also affects local oilseed planting. Although
regulatory import duty (RID) was in place before the project, adjustments to it were not always
prompt nor were these oriented towards providing any incentive to domestic produces.
19.    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control.  An empowered and effective
project director was not installed for a long time and procurement of technical assistance and
7



overseas training were considerably delayed. These factors which were within the control of
Government did have a bearing on the project performance. Other factors which affected the
project performance were mainly related to excessive public sector controls as manifested by
untimely availability of seed and fertilizer, lack of assistance for arranging loans for inputs,
inadequate arrangements for lifting of oilseed crops, insufficient quantities of quality seed, and
belated development of local sunflower hybrids.
20.    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control. These included delays
in providing infrastructure for support services (such as buildings and equipment), weak research-
extension and seed certification-extension linkages, lack of motivation among the front line
extension agents, and less than satisfactory coordination and monitoring of project activities.
Inadequate project implementation arrangements in certain provinces, undefined line of authority
for provincial project directors, and rapid turn-over of key project staff in some cases also
adversely affected the project performance
G. Project Sustainability
21.    The project has made significant gains since its turn-around in 1994.  If necessary
measures for sustaining the level of activities being carried out now are not taken by the concerned
authorities, the oilseed planting im the coming years may suffer set-backs. It may even lead to
losing the momentum gained thus far. A peculiar aspect of the project is that it was all through
funded by the federal government and the provincial governments are ill prepared for taking on the
responsibility for continuation of activities. The project closing date of December 31, 1996 is very
near and it is time that the provincial governments prepare the future plans of operations and share
these with the Bank. A task force has prepared a report on how the project activities need to be
sustained over the next few years. The mission recommends that PODB convene a meeting of the
relevant provincial authorities and take the necessary decisions without further delay.
H. Outcome
22.    The project's outcome is rated as satisfactory on the basis of recent performances. The
necessary infrastructure is essentially in place and oilseed production can be bolstered by keeping
up the tempo thus far built. Oilseed crop acreages have registered increases in the recent years.
New local sunflower hybrids have been produced which are expected to yield in the coming years.
Canola crop is getting popular with farmers and is likely to replace the traditional rapeseed and
mustard crops in the long run. The oilseed processing industry is showing signs of robustness as it
is offering higher than the support prices to farmers. Free market mechanism is now at work. All
these indications point to a positive outcome that needs to be sustained. The risk is that if
immediate measures are not taken for the sustainability of the project, the outcome may turn out to
be otherwise in not too distant future.
8



I. Future Operation
23.    A task force established by MINFAL has prepared a report on sustaining the oilseed
research and development activities initiated under NODP. MINFAL, in conjunction with the
provincial governments, must take immediate decisions regarding staff, funding and support
facilities that are needed for sustaining the project activities in the coming years and submit to
IDA, by December 31, 1996, a duly approved plan for future operations. With PODB having been
made functional, its lead and catalyzing role would keep the provincial research and extension
agencies' due focus on the oilseed crops, as would public-private sector partnership initiatives in
the seed sub-sector and processing industry increase farmers confidence in the oilseed crops.
24.   With no follow-on investment project in the making, future promotional activities for
oilseeds would depend on the resources which PODB will be able to generate. Until such time that
PODB's resource base is stabihzed, the government may consider formulating a project which
would qualify for support under Bank's proposed Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIP).
Key areas of support in such a sub-project of ASIP could be operations and maintenance
shortfalls of PODB, contractual research grant allocations for oilseeds research and development
work, extension campaigns, and other edible oil production enhancement measures.
J. Lessons Learned
25.    The main lessons learned during the project implementation are as follows
(a)    The project was too complex in design. It encompassed all the four provinces and
had numerous components. It lacked specificity for provinces/agro-ecological zones.
Farmers, the ultimate beneficiaries, were not consulted in project preparation. Such
consultation could be helpful in rightly designing the project. In hindsight, encouraging
farmers to form "producers organizations" for addressing their crop disposal issues and
through fostering better linkages with extension agents for production technology uptake
could have ensured more success in the earlier implementation periods. NGOs' role in
popularizing oilseed cropping seems to be proving helpful in NWFP. The experiment needs
to be tried at other places.
(b)    For maximizing oilseed production, introduction of sunflower crop was assigned
the highest importance. The traditional oilseed crops like rape/mustard were relegated
which did not help in achieving project objectives. Sunflower was a new crop for Pakistan
and was as such seen at by farmers with suspicion. Farmers also perceived it as a minor
crop to begin with and did not give it the importance it deserved. While the incorporation
of a new crop in the prevalent crop cycle is not easy and is often met with resistance, the
project had established far too ambitious targets.
(c)    Marketing aspect of the oilseed crops was not given due importance in the design
of the project. The responsibility for procurement of the crops remained with the Ghee
Corporation of Pakistan (GCP) which being a public sector agency could never handle the
procurement satisfactorily. Initial setbacks to the project were mainly due to inefficient and
inadequate procurement arrangements of the oilseed crops by GCP or any other public
9



sector agency. Monopolistic tendencies of the GCP as well as price control regimes
hampered the development of easily accessible marketing channels which discouraged the
farmers in widespread adoption of non-traditional oilseeds.
(d)    The project recommended dependence on imported sunflower hybrid seed which
was costly. At the same time, it did not encourage the development of local hybrids. The
lesson was learnt late at MTR when the on-going local initiatives, particularly in NWFP,
of developing sunflower hybnds were supported. The locally developed hybrids are
cheaper and finding acceptance with farmers.
(e)    Credit did not work as incentive for promotion of oilseed crops as envisioned in
the project. A major part of it had to be canceled at MTR. It was found that the non-
traditional crops, particularly sunflower, were adopted mainly by large farmers who did
not necessarily need credit. Poor credit discipline among the farming community was also
a cause for low credit disbursements. Lack of experience and interest by the commercial
banks (CBs) in extending agricultural loans, particularly for medium and long term
investments, proved to be another obstacle in the performance of the on-lending
component.
(f)    The borrower felt that the Bank's supervision missions should have been more
frequent for such a complex project to succeed. In fact, the project tumed around when the
project's task management was transferred to the Bank's Resident Mission in Islamabad
and implementation assistance from the Bank became easily available
(g)    One of the major factors which helped the project in the latter stages was the
change in the policy environment in as much as the ghee/oil prices were de-regulated. As
the ghee/oil prices rose, oilseed processors volunteered to lift the oilseed crop at rates much
higher than the government-fixed support price. Had the policy change taken place earlier,
oilseed crops would, by now, have been cultivated over much larger areas than is the case.
Oilseed processors were in dire need of working capital which the lending component of
the project did not provide for. Experience, however, revealed that such credit could help
the processors a great deal and induce them to offer better prices for the produce to
farmers.
(h)     The project, in initial stages, suffered from lack of leadership. NMCU and
PMCUs were destined to play an important role for the project but they were not given the
due importance. Their heads were transferred frequently and were not fully empowered.
(i)    Awareness initiatives should have been built into the project. Massive campaigns
through electronic and print media could have made the difference.
10



Appendix B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
EVALUATION REPORT FOR ICR
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IDA Credit 1936/IBRD Loan 2973-Pak)
I.     Assessment of the Project Objectives
In pursuance of government's policy for development of oilseed sector, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture
and Livestock (MINFAL) launched a seven-year National Oilseed Development Project (NODP) in 1989, with the
financial assistance of World Bank in the four provinces and at federal level. Although the project is federally
financed, provincial oilseed research, extension, seed production components and federal institutions such as National
Agricultural Research Centre (NARC), Federal Seed Certification Department, and Pakistan Banking Council are
executing agencies. The main objectives of the project were to strengthen research and development infrastructure
and increase oilseed production in order to reduce the increasing import of edible oils. The IDA Credit/IBRD Loan
has been terminated since December 30, 1996.
Tlhe principal objective of the project is to attain self-reliance in edible oils through increasing indigenous
production of both traditional and non-traditional oilseed crops such as sunflower, soybean, safflower, and canola.
The project provides essential institutional support and policy framework for oilseed research, extension, seed
production and credit for oilseed growers. It also facilitates efficient functioning of the agencies involved in seed
supply, marketing, and processing. The project aims at increasing the domestic production of edible oils to about
250,000 tons per annum at full realization of the project. The main project objectives are:
a)     Strengthening the existing research, extension and seed production capabilities for oilseed crops;
b)    Increasing area and enhancing productivity of oilseeds through the development of high yielding
varieties/ hybrids, improved production technologies and farm machinery for oilseed crops;
c)     Providing short-term training and technical assistance in the weaker technical areas/disciplines for
improving skills of manpower working in Oilseed Research & Development System; and
d)     Providing short and medium term credit to oilseed growers through participating credit institutions
under the credit component of the project.
National Oilseed Development Project (NODP) was initially approved in 1989-90 for seven years at a total
cost of Rs.1541.959 million, including IDA credit US $ 20 million and IBRD loan of US $ 31.4 million. In 1994,
the project was restructured in view of non-performing on-lending component. Revised cost of the project comes to
Rs.742.882 million as follows:
Original Cost
Total                       Rs. 1541.959 million (Eq. US$ 84.20 m)
Credit/Loan                 Total: US $ 51.4 m
Cr. SDRs 14.5 m (Eq. US$ 20 m); Ln. US$ 31.4 m
On-lending Component:       Rs. 1061.277 m



Cr. of SDRs 5.68 m (Eq. US$ 7.95 m); Ln. of US$ 21.6 m
Development Component:      Rs.480.682 m
Cr. of SDRs 8.82 m (Eq. US$ 12.35 m); Ln. of US$ 9.8 m
Revised Cost
Total                       Rs.742.882 m
Credit/Loan                 Total: US$ 26.4 m
Cr. SDRs 11.818 m (Eq. US$ 16.6 m); Ln. US$ 9.8 m
On-lending Component:       Rs.262.20 m
Cr. of SDRs 3 m (Eq. US$ 4.2 m); Ln. Nil
Development Component:      Rs.80.682 m
Cr. of SDRs 8.82 m (Eq. US$ 12.35 m); Ln. of US$ 9.8 m
II.    Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance
NODP has been able to bring all the provinces, oilseed growers, grassroots level NGOs, financial
institutions, seed companies, and solvent plants close to each other for effective coordination and launching
promotional programmes in a cohesive manner. It provided basis for institutionalized oilseed sector. Necessary
infrastructure has been developed and manpower trained by the project in all provinces. The production of sunflower
hybrid seed to the tune of 80 tons indicates the success of breeding work which is another land-mark achievement of
the project. Efforts are underway to develop public-private sector partnership in transferring the hybrid seed
production technology to the private sector. It also established three mini-oilseed processing plants. Salient
accomplishments of the project are as under:
-      The oilseed sub-sector is institutionalized by creating Pakistan Oilseed Development Board (PODB)
under MINFAL.
-      Area under sunflower increased from 93,000 acres in 1990-91 to 239,000 acres in 1995-96 and
production reached 116,000 tons. Canola was introduced in 1994 and now it is grown on 200,000
acres during rabi 1996.
-      Hybrid seed production system for sunflower has been established for the first time in Pakistan and
new varieties of soybean, rapeseed, groundnut, sesame and linseed are being bred locally.
-      The solvent extraction industry is persuaded to procure farmers' produce of sunflower, soybean and
canola and provide assistance to the oilseed growers in input supply on credit.
-      Partnership between the private sector and public sector for indigenous hybrid seed production of
sunflower is being developed.
-      Considerable number of technicians and scientists have been trained in oilseed Research and
Development with special emphases on production systems, seed technology, post-harvest
management and by-product utilization.
2



Planners and policy makers were sensitized and policy environment made conducive for indigenous
oilseeds production. The solvent extraction industry was re-activated through provision of an
institutionalized credit line to the tune of Rs.250 million in 1995-96 for procurement of non-
conventional oilseeds. Prices of edible oils were deregulated to make the oilseeds production
remunerative for the growers.
The increased production added oilseeds worth Rs 1.5 billion to the national economy in 1995-96.
Local production of edible oil increased from 350,000 to 540,000 tons thereby reducing the import
by about 3 lac tons equivalent in value to Rs 10 billion.
Progress of the project regarding acreage and production of oilseeds is at Annexure I, and of staff position,
civil works, equipment/machinery, etc. are at Annexure II and Im. Details of capacity building under NODP
(infrastructure development, training and technical assistance) are given in Annexure IV.
Future Strategy
As per schedule of the Development Credit Agreement, the closing date of IDA Credit 1936-PAK and IBRD
Loan 2973-PAK for NODP is 31st December, 1996 whereas project closing date is 30th June, 1997 as it was
extended for one year in June 1996. PODB/MINFAL has asked provincial governments to take up salaries of the
respective provincial staff with effect from January 1997. A Committee constituted for developing a proposal for
NODP sustainability has also submitted its report recommending sustainability of Provincial Monitoring and
Coordination Units of the project by PODB as its Provincial Oilseed Directorates, NARC component as its Research
Unit, and taking up of research, extension and seed production components by the respective provincial governments,
these activities to be carries on by the Board on contractual and small-project basis in priority areas.
III.   Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank
(a)    Performance of the World Bank
The performance of the World Bank in project preparation and supervision during the
implementation of the project was satisfactory. The World Bank undertook several joint missions with the
Government of Pakistan's officials to assist the implementing agencies in studying the problems of implementation
and rendering advice in initiating necessary corrective measures. Reports of the Supervisory Missions provided
detailed reviews of implementation progress of the project and rendered helpful and constructive advice to rectify
problems and deficiencies in implementation indicated in these reports. The World Bank was also involved in high
level meetings with senior federal and provincial government officers, extension and training workshops and
seminars which helped in further strengthening of extension activities in the implementation of the project. The
World Bank provided excellent support in disbursement of credit/loan.
The World Bank's officers responsible for NODP supervision took keen interest in making the
project to play its role in development of oilseed sector in Pakistan. Government of Pakistan established Pakistan
Oilseed Development Board (PODB) in October 1994 on recommendation of Bank's Supervisory Mission. The
Board provides continuity to oilseed research and development programmes initiated under NODP.
3



The World Bank's Project Advisor for NODP painstakingly traveled oilseed field areas throughout
the country and visited all the project entities from time to time. This is worth mentioning that the NODP's oilseed
farms especially in Baluchistan and Sindh Provinces are at far off places. Efforts of the World Bank's Projects
Advisor in making NODP to play its role in oilseed sector are highly commendable, especially for adaptation of
innovative approaches like involvement of non-government organizations, private sector (solvent extraction industry,
seed companies, and local agents) in oilseed development. This shows interest and commitment of the World Bank's
local supervisory staff for NODP in making the project a success.
(b)    Relationship between borrower and the World Bank
The relationship between the local World Bank office, Government of Pakistan and the Provincial
Governments remained very cordial. This help in smooth implementation of the project at all the project components.
World Bank's Project Advisor for NODP visited all the project entities from time to time and rendered advise to
overcome the problems faced during implementation of the project. The World Bank also hoped in sorting out the
problems in continuous disbursement of credit/loan amount which helped in effective implementation of the project.
(c)    Lessons learnt
The basic infrastructure for oilseed research, extension, and seed production has been developed
under NODP. It has been learnt implementation of the project that the objectives of oilseed acreage and production
were to ambitious. Therefore, these were revised by Government's Federal Committee on Agriculture on year to
year basis.
4



Annexure I
ACREAGE AND PRODUCTION OF OILSEEDS -- '000
ha/tons
AREA (hectares)                  PRODUCTION (tons)
YEAR        FCA   Achie-        % Achie-      FCA          Achie-        % Achie-
Target vement       vement       Target        vement       vement
SUNFLOWER
1988-89      60.0  29.5           49           54.4          34.4         63
1989-90      60.0  47.4           79           54.0         47.4          88
1990-91      78.0  47.5           60           86.9         71.4          82
1991-92      97.1  66.9           69           116.6        102.5         88
1992-93      106.0  54.5          51           137.8         65.7         48
1993-94      71.2  51.2           72           92.6          62.5         68
1994-95      74.8  75.0          100.5         97.2         103.0         104.4
1995-96      100.0  96.5          97           131.0        116.0         96.4
SOYBEAN
1988-89      4.0    2.0           50            3.4          1.2          35
1989-90      4.0    2.3           58            4.4          2.5          57
1990-91      7.6    3.7           49            9.4          5.3          56
1991-92      11.5   4.2           37           13.8          6.1          44
1992-93      10.0   5.1           51           13.0          6.2          48
1993-94      10.0   6.2           62           13.0          7.2          55
1994-95      10.5   5.4           51           13.7          6.6          48
1995-96      10.5   5.5           51           13.7          6.5          48
SAFFLOVER
1988-89      8.0    0.2            3            4.4         2.1            2
1989-90      8.0    0.5            6            3.4          0.2           6
1990-91      10.0   0.9            9            7.5          0.7           9
1991-92      7.8    0.9           12            6.2          0.7          11
1992-93      2.5    0.8           32            2.4          1.0          42
1993-94      2.5    1.6           62            2.4          1.8          75
1994-95      2.6    0.8           30            2.5         0.8           32
1995-96      2.6    0.8           30            2.5          0.9          33
5



Annexure H
STAFF POSMON
COMPONENT           SANCTIONED POSTS FELLED             VACANT
as per PC-I    Tech. non-tech.   Tech. non-tech.
PUNJAB              165           48    92            11    14
SINDH               276           110   133           26     7
NWFP                207           56    144            5     2
BALOCHISTAN         125           78    47            -      -
FSCD                 12            4      4           -      4
PARC                 47           14    24             2     7
FCU                  22            6     12           -      4
TOTAL               854           316   456           44    38
CIVIL WORKS
C*OMPONENT          C/UNITS      PROGRESS   COST             ACTUAL
PER PC-1      (%)          PER PC-1    EXPNDTR.
(Rs.million)
PUNJAB              50            100%         11.758        11.758
SINDH               55             95          21.204        20.427
NWFP                63             92          14.985        12.835
BALOCHISTAN         32             70          11.432        9.700
PARC                 5            100           3.200        3.899
Total:              205            92%         62.580        58.646
EQUIPMENT, FIELD MACHINERY / IMPLEMENTS
COMPONENTS          AS PER        PROCURED  IN PROGRESSREMARKS
PC-I           u n i t s)
Punjab              206           108                  98            53%
Sindh               217           173                  44            80
NWFP                153            69                  84            45
Balochistan          14+           6                   8             42
PARC                 39            39                  -             100
TOTAL               629k          395                 234            63%
6



Annexure III
OTHER PROCUREMENTS
COMPONENT            AS PER    PROCURED BALANCE  REMARKS
PC-I          (n u m b e r s)
PUNJAB
vehicle       14            14             -             100 %
m/cycle:      34            34             -             100
truck   :     2              1             1             50
SINDH
vehicle:      28            23             5             82
m/cycle:      40            32             8             80
truck:         1              1            -
tractor:       1             -             1
NWFP
vehicle:      13            13             -             100
m/cycle:      11            11             -             100
truck   :      1              1            -             100
tractor:       2              1            1             50
BALUCHISTAN
vehicle :     7              4             3             57
m/cycle:      10             8             2             80
NARC:
vehicle:      4              4             -             100
m/cycle:      3              -             3
FCU:
vehicle:      3              2             1             66
m/cycle:       1             1             -             100
7



I



Appendix C
OPERATIoN4AL PLAN
PROPOSAL FOR SUSTAINING THE NODP R&D EFFORTS
The PODB is not in a position to the bear the total annual financial requirements of
NODP (about Rs 65 millions) after termination of the World Bank funds. The Board, however,
can sustain the bear minimum and immediately required set-up of NODP from it own cess fund
to cater the on going promotional oilseed campaigns and R&D work which involve an annual
cost of Rs. 15.00 million.
The PODB is playing the major role in orchestration of the research, crop promotion and
other related fronts of oilseed sector. However, the role of PODB and responsibility of providing
support to R&D of oilseed sector can not be satisfactorily discharged without taking the
provincial governments in confidence and using their existing infrastructure for agriculture
extension and research. To work in close collaboration with the Provincial Governments, PODB
is recommended to maintain its offices in the Provincial head quarters by converting the existing
Provincial Monitoring and Coordination Units (PMCU's) into the proposed "Provincial Oilseed
Directorates (PODs)". PODB will further strengthen and mobilize these offices to make them
more effective and bear their cost of establishment and operations.
The functions of PODs' will be as follows:
a)    Provide support, and liaison to Provincial Secretary Agriculture and PODB with
regard to the execution of oilseed development programmes.
b)    Process and submit new project proposals to PODB after seeking the clearance
of Provincial Secretary Agriculture.
c)    Provide technical administration/supervision to the PODB field staff for launching
oilseed promotional programmes in collaboration with provincial Extension
Services.
d)    Monitor and evaluate the on-going projects and other oilseed promotional
programmes/activities.
e)    Collect, compile and submit progress reports of oilseed development programmes
to the PODB.
f)    Provide assistance to PODB to approach the private sector for enhancing their
involvement in the oilseed R&D efforts.
g)    Any other special functions as assigned by PODB from time to time.
These Provincial Oilseed Directorates will be directly attached with the Provincial
Secretaries Agriculture and provide support and close liaison both to Provincial Secretaries



Agriculture and PODB for execution of oilseed programmes/projects. For maintaining and
accelerating the existing tempo of R&D in oilseed sub-sectors, the PODB will finance the
development projects of high priority in the fields of research, extension and seed production
addressing the micro-and macro environments of each sub-sector on Competitive Research Grant
System. Such projects will also be sponsored to the private sector, NGOs etc to enhance the
involvement of the private entrepreneurs in oilseed development as already being done in case
of BRSP, SRSC and IBI. Each such project will be processed through the Provincial Oilseed
Directorates (POD) which will seek the approval of Provincial Secretary Agriculture and submit
these to PODB for appraisal and approval. Funds for such approved projects would be
channelized through the same Directorate which will be responsible for mobilizing and
monitoring of the projects.
The promotion of oilseed crops will be done through PODB's field staff and the regular
extension departments. For involving the provincial agriculture departments and other institutions
in oilseed promotional and development activities, the operational costs of such activities may
be borne by PODB under pre-planned contractual arrangements for all such promotional
programmes.
The junior staff of PODs and other units recruited for this project will be picked up by
PODB as such. The regular provincial staff which have been promoted against the project posts
would revert back to their original posts. The technical staff will be taken from the respective
Provinces on deputation on merit. It will help PODB to maintain a better administrative control
on their Provincial Oilseed Directorates. In addition, the directorates will be able to monitor the
progress independently without being influenced by provincial bureaucratic set-up, use financial
and other resources judicially and avoid frequent transfers of staff the provincial administrators.
PODB will also monitor and review such project periodically.
Since the seed processing plants in Sindh, NWFP and Balochistan were established by
the efforts of PODB, these plants will be managed, run and fully funded by PODB sponsoring
the salaries of the staff and operational costs, as per the MOUs already signed with provincial
governments, till such time that these are privatized.
The other recommendations of the committee are also agreed in principle. However, it
is proposed that the concerned Provinces may be asked to projectize their requirements for
project components recommended in the report but not immediately being sustained. It should
contain specific targets and operational plans. The PODB may fmance these projects at a later
stage on merit after prioritization and channelize its resources through Provincial Oilseed
Directorates.
It is also proposed that PODB should continue the total NODP set up for atleast 6 months
(January to June, 1997) till the project completes its life. For the purpose, bridge financing may
be made by the World Bank and meanwhile a PC-I should be developed by the Board for
possible financing out of Agriculture Sector Investment Project (ASIP). The retroactive financing
made by the World Bank may be charged to the new ASIP-sponsored project. For this, the
World Bank should be approached by PODB/MINFAL. At the same time GOP may be requested
to provide funds for the outstanding liabilities of provincial governments which accrued due to
2



non-provision of adequate finances by PODB and finance the project for remaining six months
through provision of additional funds out of PSDP 1996-97.
The structure and setup of NODP in the changed scenario has been worked out and given
below province-wise. Summary of the total cost requirements for sustaining the activities
generated under NODP for oilseed development and promotion are as under:
Unit                    No. of                Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment     Operational  Total
Punjab POD              14          0.857             1.117       1.974
Punjab Total:         -14           0.997             1.117       1.974
Sindh POD               12          0.502             0.517       1.019
Lakhi Seed Plant        16          0.636             0.400       1.131
Sindh Total:            28     -    1.138             0.917       2.150
NWFP POD                16          0.979             0.810       1.789
Tarnab Seed Plant       45          1.119             1.095       2.214
NWFP Total:             61          2.298             1.905       4.003
Baluchistan POD         12          0.718             0.820       1.538
Gandhawa Seed Plant     8           0.406             0.370       0.776
Baluchistan Total:    -20 --        1.524             1.196       2.314
Research Wing at NARC   32          1.727             1.932       3.659
NARC Total:             32 -        1.727             1.932       3.659
TOTAL                   155         7.933             7.067       15.000
3



PUNJAB:
The existing NODP manpower strength of Punjab is 165 including research, extension,
seed and PMCU components. It has been proposed to reduce it to 14 posts in total, all at
PMCU. Reducing the size of NODP set-up will also have a drastic cut on the total expenditure.
The summary of the posts and estimated expenditure per year of the proposed set-up is
given below, while the details are given in Annexure-I.
Unit                    No. of                 Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment     Operational  Total
PMCU (now POD)          14          0.857              1.117       1.974
Total:            14          0.857              1.117       1.974
SINDH
For Sindh province, 12 posts will be maintained at POD and 16 posts at Seed Plant
Lakhi, 28 posts in total. The existing NODP manpower strength in Sindh is 276, while it has
been proposed to reduced it to 28 posts. The reduction in financial needs will also be
proportionately. The summary for manpower and finances needed under restructured set-up is
given below and the details are depicted in Annexure-II.
Unit                    No. of                 Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment     Operational  Total
PMCU (now POD)          12          0.502              0.517       1.019
Seed Processing Unit    16          0.636              0.400       1.131
Total:      28          1.138             0.917       2.150
NWFP:
The existing manpower strength in NWFP is 220. Province of NWFP agreed to reduce
it to 61 including the staff of PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate (16) and Seed Processing
Unit (45) showing reduction of 72%  in the manpower. The summary of the restructured
manpower is given below and details are given in Annexure-HI.
Unit                    No. of                'Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment     Operational  Total
PMCU (now POD)          16          0.979              0.810       1.789
Seed Processing Unit    45          1.119-             1.095       2.214
Total:      61          2.098              1.905      4.003
4



BALOCHISTAN
The existing staff strength of NODP in Balochistan is 125. It is proposed to reduce it to
20. The committee strongly recommended to maintain the Oilseed Research Station at Sibi
because, at present, the oilseed research set-up is not existing in the province. However, keeping
in view the limited financial resources available, it is not recommended to sustain oilseed
research system as such. Seed processing unit in Gandhawa and PMCU in Quetta will be
sustained. The summary of the manpower and cost is given below and details can be seen in
Annexure-IV.
Unit                    No. of                    Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment      Operational  Total
PMCU (now POD)           12          0.718              0.820       1.538
Seed Processing Unit,    8           0.406              0.370       0.776
Gandhawa
Total:            20           1.124              1.196       2.314
NARC:
NODP component of NARC has all necessary elements where PODB can establish its
research based unit/wing with minimum capital, establishment and operational cost. It is because
the NARC component has office building and laboratories already in place. Its staff has access
to all NARC research infrastructure such as land with and without irrigation facility, all sort of
laboratory equipments, green-houses, computer backup and trained manpower. Therefore, the
committee recommended to affiliate the NODP component of NARC with the Board as its
research unit, take the existing project staff on Board pay role and provide operational funds.
At present, only 6 scientific posts were filled under the project while all other scientists
(including the Project Director) were transferred from PARC to the project on secondment basis.
This regular PARC staff is drawing their salaries from their original place of appointment. In
view of the existing merit and past intellectual and technical contribution of NARC component
for the project, the committee proposed to keep the present set-up intact for future operation of
the research unit/wing of PODB.
NARC has already submitted a proposal (SNE) to PARC for onward transmission to
MINFAL for converting the NODP, NARC component to Non-development (current) side.
PODB may like to consider this proposal for acceptance. It will help merge the NODP, NARC
component into PODB amicably. The functions of research unit of PODB at NARC will be as
follows:
i)    Scrutinization, appraisal, and recommendation of New Oilseed R&D Projects to
PODB for approval & funding.
5



ii)   Research planning and prioritization.
iii)   Research Management and Coordination.
iv)   Project Evaluation and Monitoring.
v)    Conducting, collaborative and up-stream research on oilseed crops.
vi)   Develop data bank on oilseed sub-sectors covering information about oilseed area,
production, consumption, prices, trade, policies, by-product utilization, oilseed
extraction industry capacity and operation, commodity import and marketing etc.
The existing NARC component has following staff, which is recommended to be picked
up by the Board, while rest of the staff will remain on the PARC side but continue work in the
PODB research unit/wing based at NARC.
Posts                   BPS         No.         Remarks           Cost/year
(Rs million)
Director (Research)   ,  19         1 a 2  ''P  Existing         0.196
Scientific Officer           .      6 3- 1 c ,                    0.577
Field Assistant        08        ._6."                            0.223
Office Assistant        11          1           "                 0.061
Stenotypist             12           1                            0.059
UDC                    07           2                             0.077
LDC                    05           2                             0.073
Lab. Assistant         05           1           "                 0.041
Tractor Operator       05            1          "                 0.035
Driver                 04           4                             0.161
Field Man              01           5                             0.153
Naib Qasid             01           2                             0.071
Sub-total:        32                            1.727
Operational Cost:                               1.932
Total:            %O                            3.659
6



Annexure-I
PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate for Punjab
The existing PMCU at Lahore will be converted into the PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate.
Summarized Cost
Unit                   No. of                 Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment     Operational  Total
PMCU (now POD)          14          0.857             1.117       1.974
Total:           14           0.857             1.117       1.974
Details of Establishment Cost: POD
Staff                  Grade              Number    Remarks    Salary
(Rs Million)
Provincial Director    (BPS-19)           1           Existing    0.199
Research Officers      (BPS-17+ Rs 150)  2            "I          0.256
Computer Operator      (BPS-16)           1           Additional  0.058
Office Assistant       (BPS-11)           1           Existing    0.052
Stenographer           (BPS-12)           1                       0.045
Junior Clerk           (BPS-5)           2                        0.056
Driver                 (BPS-4)            1                       0.037
Naib Qasid             (BPS-1)           4                        0.119
Chowkidar              (BPS-1)            1                       0.035
Total:                  14                      0.857
7



Annexure-Il
PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate for Sindh:
The existing PMCU in Karachi will be converted into a PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate.
Summarized Cost
Unit                    No. of                Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment     Operational  Total
PMCU (now POD)          12          0.502             0.517       1.019
Seed Processing Unit    16          0.636             0.400       1.131
Total:     28           1.138             0.917       2.150
Details of Establishment Cost: POD
Staff                         Grade       Number    Remarks    Salary(Min.Rs)
Provincial Director           19          1           Existing    0.139
Economist                    17           1           "           0.069
Assist. Accounts Officer      12          1           Additional   0.041
Stenographer                 15           1           Existing    0.048
Stenotypist                   11          1           "           0.035
Office Assistant              11          1           Additional  0.035
UDC                          07           1                       0.029
LDC                          05           1                       0.030
Driver                       04           1           Existing    0.027
Naib Qasid                   01          2            it          0.060
Chowkidar                    01           1           Additional   0.024
Total                                     12                     0.502



Annexure-II (Continued)
Seed Processing Unit, Lakhi
Staff                         Grade        Number    Remarks    Sa9yM    Rs.)
Plant Manager                  17          1           Existing    0.095
Quality Control Supervisor     17          1                       0.095
Lab. Technician                16          1                       0.069
Mechanic                       12          1                       0.041
Store Keeper                   11          1                       0.035
Accounts Asstt.               11           1                       0.035
Field Assistant                6           1                       0.030
LDC                            5           1                       0.029
Truck Driver                   5           1                       0.029
Forke lift Driver              5           1                       0.029
Driver                         4           1                       0.027
Plant Operator                 3           2             n         0.050
Naib Qasid                     1           2             It        0.048
Chowkidar                      1            1                      0.024
Total:            16                       0.636
9



Annexure-III
PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate for NWP:
The existing PMCU in Peshawar will be converted into a PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate.
Summarized Cost
Unit                    No. of                 Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment     Operational  Total
PMCU (now POD)           16          0.979             0.810        1.789
Seed Processing Unit    45           1.119             1.095       2.214
Total:      61          2.098              1.905       4.003
Details of Establishment Cost: POD
Staff                          Grade       Number    Remarks    Salary
(Rs Million)
Provincial Director            19           1          Existing    0.170
DD (Extension)                 18          1           Additional   0.165
Economist                      17           1          Existing    0.122
Senior Scientific Officer      18           1          "           0.165
Stenotypist                    12           1          "           0.033
UDC                           07           2           "           0.054
LDC                            05          2           "           0.051
Driver                        05           3           "           0.076
Naib Qasid                    01           4           to          0.093
Chowkidar                     01           2           it          0.050
Total                         18                       0.979
1 0



Annexure-III (Continued)
Seed Processing Unit, ORI, Tarnab.
No. of      Pay & Allowances  Peiaki
Name of Post                   Grade       Posts       per year (Rs million)
Senior Res. Officer (Seed Prod)   18       1           0.091              Existing
Lab. Technician                16          1           0.040
Mechanic                       12          1           0.060                "
Field Officer                  12          2           0.060                "
Stenotypist                    12          1           0.030                "
Account Assistant              11          1           0.028                "
Office Assistant               11          1           0.028
Electrician                    6           1           0.023
Technician                     6           1           0.023
Field Assistant                6           1           0.023
Junior Clerk                   5           1           0.023
Driver                        4            1           0.022
Watch Man                      1           2           0.214
Naib Qasid                     1           2           0.042
Total:                                     48          1.199
1 1



Annexure-IV
PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate for Balochistan:
The existing PMCU in Quetta will be converted into a PODB Provincial Oilseed Directorate.
Summarized Cost
Unit                    No. of                   Cost (Rs million)
posts       Establishment     Operational  Total
PMCU (now POD)          12           0.718             0.820        1.538
Seed Plant, Gandhawa     8           0.406             0.370       0.776
Total:            20           1.124             1.196       2.314
Details of Establishment Cost: POD
Staff                         Grade        Number    Remarks    Salary
Rs Million
Provincial Director            19           1          Existing    0.158
Oilseed Botanist at Sibbi Farrn    18       1          Existing    0.158
Planning and Progress Officer    17         1                      0.112
Accounts Assistant             11           1                      0.080
Stenographer                   12           1                      0.058
Office Assistant              11            1                      0.052
UDC                           07            2                      0.090
LDC                           05            1                      0.052
Driver                        04            1                      0.052
Naib Qasid                    01            2                      0.064
Total                                      11                      0.718
Mini Seed Processing Plant, Gandhawa.
Name of Post            Grade        Posts       Cost              Remarks
(Rs million)
Extra Assist. Director  17           1           0.112             Existing
Agri. Research Officer    17         1           0.072             Additional
Electrician             11           1           0.050             Additional
Field Assistant         6            1           0.036             Additional
Mechanic                6            1           0.036             Additional
Chowkidar               1            1           0.030             Existing
Beldar                  1            2           0.062             Existing
Total:                               8           0.406
1 2



Annexure-V
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS OF MEETING HELD ON 10TH NOVEMBER, 1996 AT ARI,
TARNAB, PESHAWAR
S.No. Name                            Designation
1.    Mr. Ghulam Idris                Dir (Tech)                      In chair
2.    Mr. Muhammad Raza               Director (A&F), PODB
3.    Mr. Asad-ullah Tahir            Asstt. Director, Planning
4.    Dr. Masood A. Rana              PD (NODP), NARC, Islamabad
5.    Dr. Akbar S. Mohrnand           SSO, NODP, NARC
6.    Ch. Ahmad Saeed                 PD (NODP), Punjab
7.    Mr. Muhamnmnad Anwar Butt       Director, ORI, Faisalabad
8.    Mr. Inayatullah                 Senior Res.Off., Tamab
9.    Mr. Azad Khan                   DD (NODP) Agri. Ext., NWFP
10.   Mr. Ahmad Said                  R.0 (Sunflower), ARI, Tarnab
11.   Mr. Salauddin                   Oilseed Botanist, ARI, Tarnab
12.   Mr. M. Iftikhar Afzal           Economist, NODP, NWFP
13.   Mian Javaid Rahman              Res. Officer, NODP, ARI, Tarnab
14.   Mr. Iqbal Munir                 Res. Officer, NODP, ARI, Tamab
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS OF MEETING HELD ON 16TH NOVEMBER, 1996 IN THE
OFFICE OF DG (AGRI.), BALOCHISTAN, QUETTA
S.No. Name                            Designation
1.    Mr. Ghulam Idris                Director (Tech)                 In chair
2.    Ch. Zulfiqar Ali Khan           Director General
3.    Mr. Muhammad Raza               Director (A& F), PODB
4.    Mr. Asad-ullah Tahir            Asstt. Director, PODB
5.    Dr. Masood A. Rana              PD (NODP), NARC
6.    Ch. Ahmad Saeed                 PD (NODP), Punjab
7.    Mr. Muhammad Anwar Butt         Director (ORI), Faisalabad
8.    Mr. Akhtar Ali                  PD (NODP), Balochistan
9.    Mr. Muhammad Khaskhaili         Regional Manager, PODB
10.   Mr. Nazar Hussain Khilji        Oilseed Botanist, Sibi
11.   Mr. Basharat Ali                Asstt. Director, Gidder Farm
1 3






IBRD 19992
6'4                                       68-                                ;1 72        U  S S R         L
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL OILSEEDS                                                                                                  CHINA
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
36'                             Multan    Proposed Major Oilseeds Production Areas                       11     /                                      **360
     National Capital                                                       Cliral  v '       
0     Cities and Towns                                                                         1''do p
National Roads                                                                 Dasu/ 
Primary and Secondary Roads                                               oSo,du
--' |    Railroads                                                        .       Malakand       r 
+      Airports                                                                 Mardan )Appro--rt.e fl-e of Cotrol
-   -     Province Boundaries                                  t 'sher Pa nsehr0
International Boundaries                            ( ~ Peshoa               I
-~c   Rivers                                                    \     -9p haIp.nd.  JAMMU and KASHMJR
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ku 
AFGHANISTAN                                                                        U
28/                                                      5     Ders Murad JamIplI                       r
- 28~~'                    J                               \                  ,                        Rhmyr Khan                                     28j
ISLAMIC                                                            La k    u ur
REPUBLIC  OF                                                     /   Larop ukkur
I RAN             .1                                                                                      0        loo       200       300       400
z                    z              I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s /ItN D                                      KILOMETERS
0      50     0o0      150    200      250
( / tela > >NoonobshnhMiLES
J/     Turbot                 <>          |oUthal 5        X:Sa hr
=. onm       Hyderobod    K                                Thsmapha-teen beb-d by
' s u : f > Bati! Pt,  chI                                             -d-t dn d- t -1-yo naost
_  _             _      X      f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,<  1_ ~~~~~~~~~~~part of The Wuld B-nk erd the         2
-   .  - X r <7 b S a a:  - s e cz   -   <>  ,                                              an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.y pdXg-et -n the Iegal VWa tu
endorsement or acceptance of
Suh b-d-a,e
640                     -                  -                                      720
FEBRUARY 1988









IMAGING
Report No.:        16811
Type:     ICR



