Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1936 PAK
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2973 PAK
              (National Oilseed Development Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 21, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1936 PAK
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2973 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 21,  1988,  between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its  President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (the  Project),  has  requested  the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has  also  requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and  Development  (the  Bank)  to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing  of  the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith  between the Borrower and the Bank
(the Loan Agreement), the Bank  is agreeing to provide such assis-
tance in an  aggregate  principal  amount equivalent to thirty-one
million four hundred thousand dollars ($31,400,000) (the Loan);
Page  2
     (C)  the Borrower and the  Association  intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of  the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on  account  of  expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of  the  proceeds of the Loan are
made;
     (D)  the Project will be carried out in part by the Provinces
and the Participating Credit  Institutions  (PCIs), all as herein-
after defined, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make  available to the Provinces and
the PCIs a portion of  the  proceeds  of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement and a portion of  the  proceeds of the Loan as pro-
vided in the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the
Bank and the Provinces;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Punjab" means the Province  of Punjab, a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (b)  Sind" means  the  Province  of  Sind,  a  political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (c)  "NWFP" means the North  West  Frontier Province, a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (d)  "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (e)  "Provinces"  mean  Punjab,  Sind,  NWFP  and Baluchistan
collectively, and "Province" means  each  or  any  one of the Pro-
vinces;
     (f)  "NCBs"  mean  collectively  the  nationalized commercial
banks established and operating  under  the  laws of the Borrower,
being the National Bank  of  Pakistan,  Habib Bank Limited, United
Bank Limited,  Muslim  Commercial  Bank  Limited  and  Allied Bank
Limited;
     (g)  "PBC" means the Pakistan Banking Council established and
operating under the  Borrower's  Banks  (Nationalization) Act (No.
XIX) of 1974;
     (h)  "ADBP"  means  the   Agricultural  Development  Bank  of
Pakistan established and  operating  under the Borrower's Agricul-
tural Development Bank Ordinance (No. IV) of 1961, as amended;
     (i)  "PCIs"  mean   collectively   the  Participating  Credit
Institutions under the Project, being the NCBs and ADBP;
     (j)  "MINFAC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Food, Agricul-
Page  3
ture and Cooperatives;
     (k)  "NOCMU"  means  the  National  Oilseed  Coordination and
Monitoring Unit to be  established  under  the Project pursuant to
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (l)  "PAD" means a Provincial Agriculture Department;
     (m)  "PCMUs" mean  collectively  the  Provincial Coordination
and Monitoring Units to be  established under the Project pursuant
to paragraph 1 (c)  of  Schedule  5  to this Agreement, and "PCMU"
means each and any one of those units;
     (n)  "PCCs"  mean  collectively  the  Provincial Coordinating
Committees to be established  under  the Project pursuant to para-
graph 3 of Schedule 5 to  this Agreement, and "PCC" means each and
any one of those committees;
     (o)  "GCP" means the Ghee Corporation of Pakistan;
     (p)  "Project Agreement" means the  agreement among the Asso-
ciation, the Bank and the Provinces  of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time  to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (q)  "Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements"   mean  collectively  the
agreements to be entered  into  between  the Borrower and the PCIs
pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
     (r)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and  the  Bank  for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments" of the Bank,  dated  January  1,  1985,  as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
     (s)  "Administration Agreement"  means  the  Agreement  to be
entered into between the Borrower  and PBC pursuant to paragraph 1
(d) of Schedule 5 to  this  Agreement,  as the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Administration Agreement;
     (t)  "Special  Accounts"   mean   collectively  the  accounts
referred to in Section 2.02  (b)  of this Agreement and more fully
defined  in  paragraphs  (u)  through  (z)  of  this  Section, and
"Special Account" means each and any such account;
     (u)  "Borrower's Special Account"  means  the Special Account
which the Borrower  shall  open  and  maintain pursuant to Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (v)  "Punjab Special Account" means the Special Account which
Punjab shall open and  maintain  pursuant  to  Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
     (w)  Sind Special Account"  means  the  Special Account which
Sind shall open and maintain pursuant  to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
     (x)  "NWFP Special Account"  means  the Special Account which
NWFP shall open and maintain pursuant  to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
     (y)  "Baluchistan Special Account"  means the Special Account
which Baluchistan shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement and  Section  2.01 (c) of the Project Agree-
ment;
     (z)  "PBC Special Account"  means  the  Special Account which
Page  4
PBC shall open and maintain on  behalf  and for the benefit of the
NCBs pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (aa) "O&M" means operation and maintenance;
     (bb) "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower; and
     (cc) "FY" and "fiscal year" mean the Borrower's, a Province's
or a PCI's fiscal year,  as  the  case may be, covering the period
July 1 through June 30.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  fourteen  million  five  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain, and shall  cause  the Provinces and PBC to open
and maintain, in dollars special  accounts in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1996
or such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be  set  from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as  of  the  next  payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of  this Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Page  5
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each  March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15,  1998  and  ending  March  15, 2023. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2008 shall be one  and  one-fourth  percent (1-1/4%) of such prin-
cipal amount, and  each  installment  thereafter  shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The  Chairman,  Planning and Development Board,
Punjab, the Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Planning and
Development  Department,  Sind,  the  Additional  Chief Secretary,
Planning and Development  Department,  NWFP,  the Additional Chief
Secretary,  Planning  and   Development  Department,  Baluchistan,
the Chairman, PBC and the  Chairman, ADBP are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for  the  purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be  taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, in
respect of the  parts  of  the  Project  for  which  they are res-
pectively responsible.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end:
     (ii)   shall carry out, and shall cause the Provinces and the
            PCIs to carry out, the  Project with due diligence and
            efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
            trative,  financial  and  agricultural  practices, and
            shall provide, and shall cause to be provided, prompt-
            ly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and
            other resources required for the Project; and
     (ii)   without any limitation or  restriction upon any of its
            other obligations under  the Development Credit Agree-
            ment, shall cause the  Provinces  to perform in accor-
            dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
Page  6
            the obligations of the  Provinces   therein set forth,
            shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
            the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
            resources,  necessary  or  appropriate  to  enable the
            Provinces to perform  such  obligations, and shall not
            take or permit  to  be  taken  any  action which would
            prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry out, and shall
cause the Provinces and  the  PCIs  to  carry  out, the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make  SDR  8,200,000  out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and $7,700,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Provinces under  terms and conditions which shall
be mutually satisfactory to the  Borrower, the Association and the
Bank.
     (d)  The Borrower shall relend SDR  5,600,000 out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and  $  22,700,000  out of the proceeds of the
Loan to the PCIs  under  subsidiary  loan agreements to be entered
into between the   Borrower  and  the  PCIs,  under terms and con-
ditions which shall have been  approved by the Association and the
Bank and which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (e)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the  Association  and  the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and  the  Loan, and except as the Asso-
ciation shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or  waive  the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreements or any
provisions thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of the parts of the Project for which they are responsible
shall be carried out by the  Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement, and by  the PCIs pursuant to the provisions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower and the PCIs responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  7
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (c)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graphs (a) and  (b)  (i)  of this Section including
               those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare and implement a plan
satisfactory to the  Association  for  strengthening and expanding
the procurement system for oilseeds.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare and implement a plan
satisfactory to  the  Association  for  periodically reviewing and
adjusting the regulatory import duty on edible oil.
     Section 4.04.   The  Borrower  shall  prepare and implement a
plan satisfactory to  the  Association  for periodically reviewing
and adjusting the GCP retail price of ghee.
     Section 4.05. The Borrower  shall ensure that adequate credit
will be provided to  oilseed  farmers  under  the Project, and, to
this end, shall:
     (a) permit the NCBs  to  provide medium-term credit under the
Project without regard to the  15%  ceiling on such credit imposed
by the Borrower's National Credit Consultative Committee; and
     (b)  cause the State Bank of Pakistan to refinance the short-
term  credit  provided  by  ADBP  under  the  Project  without any
restrictions.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Provinces shall have failed  to perform any of their
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  8
     (b)  The PCIs shall have failed to perform any of their obli-
gations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which  shall  make  it  improbable: (i) that the
Provinces will be  able  to  perform  their  obligations under the
Project Agreement; and/or  (ii)  that  the  PCIs  will  be able to
perform their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
     (d)  The Agricultural Development Bank  Ordinance (No. IV) of
1961, the Banking  Companies  Ordinance  (No.  LVII)  of 1962, the
Banks  (Nationalization)  Act,  1974  or  the  Companies Ordinance
(No. XLVII) of  1984  of  the  Borrower  shall  have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect material-
ly and adversely the ability of  the  PCIs to perform any of their
obligations under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  or  of PBC to
perform any of its obligations under the Administration Agreement.
     (e)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the PCIs or of  PBC  or for the suspension of their opera-
tions.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (d)  and  (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the PC-1 document for  the  Project has been approved by
the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council;
     (b)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been  fulfilled,  other  than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement;
     (c)  the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the PCIs;
     (d)  the Administration Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and PBC;
     (e)  the NOCMU has  been  established  to the satisfaction of
the Association;
     (f)  the PCCs and  the  PCMUs  have  been  established to the
satisfaction of the Association;
     (g)  the plan referred to  in  Section 4.02 of this Agreement
has been approved by the Borrower;
     (h)  the plan referred to  in  Section 4.03 of this Agreement
has been approved by the Borrower; and
     (i)  the plan referred to  in  Section 4.04 of this Agreement
has been approved by the Borrower.
Page  9
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by the Provinces,  and  is  legally binding upon the Pro-
vinces in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been duly
authorized or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  the  PCIs and are
legally  binding upon the Borrower and the PCIs in accordance with
their terms; and
     (c)  that the Administration  Agreement  has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the  Borrower  and PBC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and PBC in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of the Borrower under Sections
4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of  this Agreement and the provisions of
paragraph (b) of Section  5.02  of  this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date  on  which  the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the  date  20  years  after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to  the  Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary  or  Section  Officer  in  that  Division  of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECONOMIC                          ECDIV-05-634
               Pakistan
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
Page  10
written.
                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                    By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of  the  Credit  and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage  of  expenditures  for  items so to be
financed in each Category:
                    Amount of      Amount of
                   the Credit      the Loan
                    Allocated      Allocated
                   (Expressed     (Expressed          % of
                     in SDR        in Dollar      Expenditures
     Category      Equivalent)    Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil           290,000       2,000,000     80%
     works
(2)  Motor-          580,000       2,000,000     100% of foreign
     cycles, farm,                               expenditures,
     laboratory                                  100% of local
     and office                                  expenditures
     equipment,                                  (ex-factory
     machinery,                                  cost) and 60%
     tools and                                   of local ex-
     farm in-                                    penditures for
     puts                                        other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(3)  Credit
     (a)  Short-    2,680,000      7,700,000     40% of amounts
          term                                   disbursed by
                                                 the PCIs
     (b)  Medium/   2,900,000     13,900,000     90% of amounts
          long-                                  disbursed by
          term                                   the PCIs
                    Amount of      Amount of
                   the Credit      the Loan
                    Allocated      Allocated
                   (Expressed     (Expressed          % of
                     in SDR        in Dollar      Expenditures
     Category      Equivalent)    Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4)  Consul-        3,300,000      1,200,000     100%
Page  11
     tants'
     services
     and train-
     ing
(5)  Incre-         4,000,000      3,500,000     50%
     mental
     staff
     salaries
     and O & M
     costs
(6)  Unallocated     750,000       1,100,000
                     ______        _________
          TOTAL    14,500,000     31,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term  "incremental  staff  salaries  and  O&M costs"
means with respect to  staff  salaries, expenditures on account of
the salaries of  new  staff  assigned  to undertake extension, re-
search, seed multiplication  and  project management and coordina-
tion activities under the Project  and, with respect to O&M costs,
the recurrent expenditures related to such activities.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  (a)  to substantially
increase the production  of  oilseed, particularly non-traditional
oilseed, and as a consequence (b)  to reduce imports of edible oil
and meal.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Oilseed Research
1.   Strengthening of oilseed research  facilities both at (a) the
national and (b) the  provincial  levels, through the construction
and/or improvement of physical  facilities and provision of staff,
equipment, technical assistance and training.
2.   Improvement of linkages between oilseed research and agricul-
tural extension through  (a)  outreach  trials  undertaken, in co-
operation with  extension  services,  at  government  farms and on
private farmers' fields, and (b) training.
Part B:   Agricultural Extension
     Strengthening and/or  expansion  of  the  Training  and Visit
(T & V) system of agricultural extension, with emphasis on oilseed
production, through the  construction  and/or  improvement of phy-
sical facilities  and  provision  of  specialist  and other staff,
vehicles (including motorcycles)  and equipment, technical assist-
Page  12
ance and training.
Part C:   Oilseed Multiplication/Processing
1.   Strengthening of the  provincial  seed production and oilseed
multiplication facilities  through  the  construction and/or modi-
fication of processing  and  storage  facilities, and provision of
staff,  vehicles  and  equipment,  incremental  operating  inputs,
technical assistance and training.
2.   Strengthening of  the  national  seed  certification capacity
through the provision of staff and vehicles.
Part D:   Oilseed Farmer Credit
1.   Provision of credit to  oilseed  farmers for (a) agricultural
inputs, including seed,  fertilizer,  pesticide, hired labor, fuel
and  machinery  repair  (short-term  credit),  and  (b) equipment,
including  planters,   ridgers   and  threshers  (medium/long-term
credit).
2.   Provision  to  the   NCBs   of   staff  (agricultural  credit
officers), vehicles (including  motorcycles), technical assistance
and training.
Part E:   Project Coordination and Monitoring
     Provision  of  professional,  technical  and  support  staff,
vehicles, office equipment and  operating inputs for establishment
of project  coordination  and  monitoring  units  both  at (i) the
national and (ii) the provincial levels.
Part F:   Technical Assistance
     Provision of technical assistance in carrying out a review of
solvent oil  extraction  plants  preparatory  to  their balancing,
modernization and/or rehabilitation.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be  procured  under  contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Page  13
2.   Farm, laboratory and  office  equipment, tools, implement and
farm inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 to $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $800,000, may be  procured  under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Farm, laboratory and office  equipment, tools, implements and
farm inputs estimated to cost  less than the equivalent of $20,000
per contract, up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $400,000, may be  procured  under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers  from  at least three different countries
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are  to  be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
such Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made  out  of a Special Account, such pro-
cedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as  part  of  the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph  4  of  Schedule 6 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower,  the Provinces and the PCIs
in carrying out the Project,  the  Borrower, the Provinces and the
PCIs shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                  Financing Terms and Conditions
1.   For Re-lending by Borrower to PCIs
Page  14
     Unless otherwise agreed by the  Association and the Bank, the
proceeds of the Credit  and  of  the  Loan  shall be relent by the
Borrower to the PCIs pursuant to  Section 3.01 (d) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement,  inter  alia,  on  the  following terms and
conditions:
     (a)  with respect to the proceeds  of the Credit, an interest
rate of 5% per annum or equivalent, a repayment period of 15 years
including a grace  period  of  3  years,  and,  for the purpose of
repayment, the principal amount  of  the  loan to be the aggregate
equivalent of the amounts in various currencies withdrawn from the
Credit Account expressed in rupees determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal; and
     (b)  with respect to the  proceeds  of the Loan, the variable
interest rate  charged  by  the  Bank  or  equivalent, a repayment
period of 15 years including a  grace  period of 3 years, and, for
the purpose of repayment, the  principal  amount of the loan to be
the aggregate  equivalent  of  the  amounts  in various currencies
withdrawn from the Loan Account  expressed in rupees determined as
of the respective dates of withdrawal.
2.   For On-lending by PCIs to Farmers/Farmers' Groups
     Unless otherwise agreed by  the Borrower, the Association and
the Bank, the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent by the
Borrower to the PCIs pursuant to  Section 3.01 (d) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall be  on-lent by them to oilseed farmers
under Part D.1 of the Project  on terms and conditions which shall
include:
     (a) with respect to  the  proceeds  of  the Credit and of the
Loan on-lent by the NCBs, a  rate  of  return of not less than 13%
per annum for short-term credit and  a  rate of return of not less
than 11% per annum for medium/long-term credit, plus in both cases
a charge of 3% of each installment due, which charge may be waived
in cases where installments are  paid  within one month of the due
date; and
     (b)  with respect to the  proceeds  of  the Credit and of the
Loan on-lent by ADBP, a rate  of  return  of not less than 12% per
annum both for short-  and  medium/long-term credit, plus a charge
of 3% of each installment due, which charge may be waived in cases
where installments are paid within one month of the due date.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   Project Coordination and Monitoring
     (a)  Responsibility for  coordinating  and monitoring Project
activities shall be assigned: (i) to MINFAC, at the national level
and with respect to ADBP, (ii) to a PAD, at each provincial level;
and (iii) to PBC, with respect to the NCBs.
     (b)  To assist MINFAC in discharging its responsibility under
paragraph (a) above, a  National Oilseed Coordination and Monitor-
ing Unit (NOCMU) shall be established  by the Borrower.  The NOCMU
shall be  headed  by  the  Commissioner,  Special  Crops and shall
include the Deputy  Agricultural  Development Commissioner and the
Assistant Agricultural Development  Commissioner,  assisted by the
necessary technical and  support  staff.    The NOCMU shall, inter
alia: (i) establish and  maintain  close  links with MINFAC's Oil-
seeds  Development  Board,  which  is  responsible  for developing
policy for,  and  overseeing,  oilseed  development programs; (ii)
coordinate and monitor the project  activities and programs of the
Provinces; (iii) develop consolidated  annual  work plans based on
inputs from each Province; (iv) prepare and submit to the Associa-
tion consolidated quarterly  and  annual project progress reports;
(v) prepare reports and papers for and participate in the progress
Page  15
reviews referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule; (vi) maintain
regular and frequent contact  with  agencies  such as GCP and with
private sector oilseed  processors  and ghee manufacturers, ferti-
lizer, seed and  pesticide  distributors  and  the  PCIs  so as to
ensure timely availability of farm  inputs and procurement of oil-
seeds from farmers; and (vii) on  a regular basis, review with the
Provincial Coordination and  Monitoring  Units (PMCUs) referred to
in sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph the policies and procedures
for provision of farm inputs and procurement of oilseeds.
     (c)  To assist  each  PAD  in  discharging its responsibility
under paragraph (b) above,  a Provincial Coordination and Monitor-
ing Unit (PCMU) shall be established  by each Province.  Each PCMU
shall be headed by a  Director, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association, assisted by the necessary techni-
cal and support staff.   Each  PCMU shall, inter alia: (i) coordi-
nate and  monitor  the  project  activities  of  the line agencies
responsible for carrying out the Project; (ii) develop annual work
plans; (iii) prepare and submit  to the NOCMU quarterly and annual
project progress reports;  and  (iv)  participate  in the progress
reviews referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule.
     (d)  To enable  PBC  to  discharge  its  responsibility under
paragraph (a) above and to administer the PBC Special Account, the
Borrower shall enter into an  Administration Agreement with PBC on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Project Implementation
     Specific responsibility  for  implementation  of  the Project
shall be assigned as follows:
     (a)  for Part A.1 (a) of  the  Project, to the Pakistan Agri-
cultural Research Council (PARC);
     (b)  for Part A.1 (b) and  Part  A.2 of the Project, each PAD
acting  through  the  provincial  agricultural  research institute
concerned;
     (c)  for Part B of the Project, to each PAD;
     (d)  for  Part  C.1  of  the  Project,  to  each  PAD acting,
wherever a provincial seed agency exists, through such agency:
     (e)  for Part C.2 of the  Project, to the Federal Seed Certi-
fication Department (FSCD);
     (f)  for Part D.1 of the Project, to the PCIs;
     (g)  for Part D.2 of the Project, to the NCBs;
     (h)  for Part E (i) of the Project, to MINFAC;
     (i)  for Part E (ii) of the Project, to each PAD; and
     (j)  for Part F of the Project, to MINFAC.
3.   Provincial Coordination.  A Provincial Coordinating Committee
(PCC) shall  be  established  by  each  Province,  composed of the
Secretary of Agriculture  of  the  Province  as  chairman, and the
heads of the provincial agencies  responsible for carrying out the
Project and representatives of GCP  and  the PCIs, all as members.
Each PCC shall meet from  time  to  time, especially prior to each
planting and each harvesting season, to ensure the availability of
farm inputs and services and the procurement of crops.
4.   Use of Pesticides.   The  Borrower  shall: (a) not later than
September  30,  1989,  complete  a  review  to  establish suitable
practices  for  use  of  pesticides,  including  those  related to
choice, handling and storage of pesticides, in connection with the
principal oilseeds developed under the Project; and (b) thereafter
promote those practices in the Project areas through the extension
services to be strengthened under Part B of the Project.
Page  16
5.   Progress Reviews. For  the  purposes  of  Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions applicable to  the Development Credit Agreement
and Section 9.07 of the  General Conditions applicable to the Loan
Agreement, the NOCMU and  each  PCMU  shall  carry out: (a) annual
reviews, and (b) in  consultation with the Association, comprehen-
sive reviews, at the end of  the  third and the fifth years of the
Project, of progress under the parts of the Project for which they
are respectively responsible.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means,  in respect of
the Borrower, an  amount  equivalent  to  $200,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account or  the  Loan Account and deposited in the
Borrower's Special Account, in respect  of Punjab, an amount equi-
valent to $400,000 to be withdrawn  from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account and deposited in  the Punjab Special Account, in res-
pect of Sind, an  amount  equivalent  to  $300,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account or  the  Loan Account and deposited in the
Sind Special Account, in respect  of NWFP, an amount equivalent to
$300,000 to be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit  Account  or the Loan
account and deposited in the  NWFP  Special Account, in respect of
Baluchistan, an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from
the Credit  Account  or  the  Loan  Account  and  deposited in the
Baluchistan Special Account, and in respect of the NCBs, an amount
equivalent to $600,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account or
the Loan Account and  deposited  in  the  PBC Special Account, all
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Accounts  shall  be  made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to
replenish such Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a  request  or requests by the Borrower,
Punjab, Sind, NWFP, Baluchistan or PBC,  as the case may be, for a
deposit or deposits which add  up  to  the aggregate amount of the
relevant Authorized Allocation,  the  Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, Punjab,  Sind,  NWFP,  Baluchistan or PBC, as the
case may be, withdraw from  the  Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount  or  amounts  as the Borrower, Punjab,
Sind, NWFP, Baluchistan or PBC,  as  the  case may be,  shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower, Punjab, Sind, NWFP, Baluchistan or PBC, as
the case may be,  shall  furnish  to  the Association requests for
replenishment of the  Special  Account  at  such  intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
Page  17
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting  the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made  by  the  Borrower, Punjab, Sind, NWFP,
Baluchistan or PBC, as the case may be, out of the Special Account
for which the Borrower, Punjab, Sind, NWFP, Baluchistan or PBC, as
the case may be,  requests  replenishment  pursuant to paragraph 3
(b)  of  this   Schedule,   the   Borrower,  Punjab,  Sind,  NWFP,
Baluchistan or PBC,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall furnish to the
Association, prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  such  request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when  either  of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower,
               Punjab, Sind, NWFP, Baluchistan or PBC, as the case
               may be, directly from  the Credit Account in accor-
               dance with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of the
               General Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of Section
               2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the  eligible  Categories for the relevant
               parts of the Project, minus  the amount of any out-
               standing special  commitment  entered  into  by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions  with  respect  to  those  parts  of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories for the  relevant  parts  of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower, Punjab,  Sind,  NWFP,  Baluchistan or PBC, as the
case may be. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the  Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in  the relevant Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account  (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished to  the  Association,  the  Borrower,  Punjab,  Sind, NWFP,
Baluchistan or PBC,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit into such Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  No  further deposit by the Associa-
tion into such Special Account  shall  be made until the Borrower,
Punjab, Sind, NWFP, Baluchistan or  PBC,  as  the case may be, has
made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower, Punjab, Sind, NWFP, Baluchistan  or PBC, as the case may
be, shall, promptly upon  notice  from  the Association, refund to
the Association or the Bank  such outstanding amount for crediting
to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be.
Page  18
