Page  1
                                                         February 8, 1989
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
      Re:   Credit No. 1936/Loan No. 2973 PAK
            (National Oilseed Development Project)
            Amendment of the Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (National Oilseed
Development Project) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the
Borrower) and the International Development Association (the
Association), the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), and the
Project Agreement among the Association, the Bank, and the Provinces of
Punjab, Sind, North West Frontier, and Baluchistan (the Provinces), all
dated July 21, 1988.  We also refer to the recent changes in the nature
of operations of the Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) and its consequent
inability to function as the apex agency on behalf of the Nationalized
Commercial Banks (NCBs) participating in the above Project.
Consequential upon these changes, and after due consideration of the
reasons therefor, the Association is pleased to agree to certain modified
arrangements for the participation of NCBs in the Project without the
intervention of an apex agency.
      Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended as
follows:
Article I
1.    Section 1.02 (g) is deleted.
2.    Sections 1.02 (h) through 1.02 (r)  are  renumbered  as  Sections
1.02 (g) through 1.02 (q).
3.    Section 1.02 (s) is deleted.
4.    Sections 1.02 (t) through 1.02 (y) are renumbered as Sections 1.02
(r) through 1.02 (w).  In Section 1.02 (r), as so renumbered, the words
"in paragraphs (u) through (z) of this Section" now read as "in
paragraphs (s) through (w) of this Section".
5.    Section 1-.02 (z) is deleted.
6.    Sections 1.02 (aa)  through  1.02  (cc)  are  renumbered  as
Sections 1.02 through 1.02 (z).
Article II
7.    In Section 2.02 (b) the words "and PBC" are deleted.
8.    In Section 2.09 the words "the Chairman, PBC" are substituted by
the words "the Chairman of each NCB,".
Article V
9.    Section 5.01 (d) the words "or of PBC to perform any of its
obligations under the Administration Agreement." are deleted.
10.   In Section 5.01 (e), the words "or of PBC" are deleted.
Article VI
11.   Section 6.02 (c) is deleted.
Schedule 5
Page  2
12.   (i) In paragraph 1 (a) the words "(i) to MINFAC, at the national
level and with respect to ADBP, (ii) to a PAD, at each provincial level;
and (iii) to PBC, with respect to the NCBs." now read as follows: "(i) to
MINFAC, at the national level and with respect to PCIs, and (ii) to a
PAD, at each provincial level."
13.   Paragraph 1 (d) is deleted.
Schedule 6
14.   In paragraph 1 (c) the words "and in respect of the NCBs, an amount
equivalent to  $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account and deposited in the PBC Special Account," are deleted.
15.   Throughout paragraphs 3, 4, 5, and 6, the words "or PBC" are
deleted and the reference to "the Borrower, Punjab, Sind, NWFP,
Baluchistan" is changed to a reference to "the Borrower, Punjab, Sind,
NWFP or Baluchistan.
      All the terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement,
as hereby amended, the Loan Agreement, and the Project Agreement, shall
remain in full force and effect.
      Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to
us.
                             Very truly yours,
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Hans-Eberhard Kopp
                                 Director
                           Country Department I
                Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By    /s/ Nazar Abbas Siddiqui
      Authorized Representative
Date:
