Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3847 
Project Name 
Geothermal Power Generation Development 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Renewable energy (75%); Power (25%) 
Project ID 
P099757 
GEF Focal Area 
Climate Change 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 21, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 17, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
May 29, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Indonesia has made a strong economic recovery from the 1997 financial crisis.  Its gross 
domestic product (GDP) grew at an average of 4.8 percent per year from 2000 to 2006, and 
registered 5.6 and 5.5 percent growth rates in 2005 and 2006, respectively.  The economy is 
projected to grow at 6 to 7 percent per year in the next few years.  Primary energy consumption 
increased by 5.2 percent per year from 2000 to 2006, and electricity consumption grew by about 
6
percent per year during the same period.  The demand for electricity is expected to grow at 7 to 
9
percent per year between 2007 and 2020.
1
Faced with rapidly growing electricity demand and the high cost of oil the Government of 
Indonesia (GoI) is pursuing a power generation expansion strategy that will boost the use of coal 
and natural gas while also scale up the utilization of the country’s large geothermal power 
potential.  In fact, PLN, the state-owned national electricity utility, is carrying out a crash 
program of building 10,000 MW of coal-fired power plants by 2009.  The increasing reliance on 
coal-fired power, currently seen as a low-cost alternative to quickly expand capacity, presents a 
challenge of dealing with the associated local and global environmental impacts.  Geothermal 
power, on the other hand, can serve as a suitable base-load substitute for coal-fired capacity in 
many areas with significantly lower emissions of air pollutants and greenhouse gases.  The GoI 
plans to achieve 6,000 MW of installed geothermal power capacity by 2020, up from about 970 
MW in 2007.  This ambitious plan will require strong government support to materialize.  Any 
shortfall in the expansion of geothermal power generation capacity is most likely to be met by 
additional coal-fired power plants, resulting in additional local air pollution and greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
1
Economic and energy data in this section were drawn mainly from: World Bank country brief 
(
www.worldbank.org/id
), APEC Energy Overview 2006 (
http://www.ieej.or.jp/aperc/energy_overview.html
), 
and Indonesia and Climate Change: Current Status and Policies, PEACE, 2007 (
www.worldbank.org/id
).
 
Page  2
Indonesia has the world’s largest geothermal power development potential, estimated to be about 
27,000 MW.  So far, around 253 geothermal fields have been identified, and 53 of which are 
ready for detailed exploration or exploitation.  The 970 MW of installed capacity accounts for 
less than 4 percent of the identified potential.  Most of the currently installed geothermal power 
capacity was the result of a GoI initiative in 1991 to develop about 4,500 MW of geothermal 
power under a Presidential Decree (PD45/1991).  But development stalled in the aftermath of the 
Asian Financial Crisis.  Geothermal contracts along with other power purchase agreements with 
private producers were suspended during the economic turmoil.  They were subsequently either 
renegotiated or cancelled.  Many of the existing investors who were already producing power 
eventually renegotiated their power purchase agreements at substantially lower tariff levels.  
Many others who had rights but were yet to develop their respective fields opted to transfer these 
assets back to public control, either as a result of arbitration proceedings or the cancellation of 
their contracts.  Presently, there is nearly 1,000 MW of unexploited geothermal power potential 
under private control and over 3,000 MW with state-owned enterprises.  About half of these 
resources are in geothermal fields which are currently producing electricity (brownfields) or with 
confirmed reserves (quasi-brownfields) and are well placed for further expansion.   
 
The GoI has intensified its efforts to revive and scale up geothermal power development in the 
past few years.  In 2003, the Geothermal Law (Law 27/2003) was promulgated, making 
geothermal the only renewable energy governed by its own law.  The Law, among other things, 
mandated that future geothermal fields (fields which were not included under the PD45/1991, 
with a total potential of about 22,000 MW) must be transparently and competitively tendered for 
development.  It also permitted operators of the fields previously allocated under the PD45/1991 
to retain control.  In 2004, the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) issued the 
“Blueprint for Geothermal Development in Indonesia,” which was intended as a roadmap to 
develop a total of 6,000 MW of geothermal power capacity by 2020.  In 2005, the Directorate of 
Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Groundwater Management were established by MEMR 
to strengthen sector management and support.  In 2006, MEMR initiated the Master Plan Study 
for Geothermal Power Development in Indonesia funded by Japan International Cooperation 
Agency (JICA), further solidifying the knowledge and understanding about developing 
Indonesia’s geothermal resources.  Despite these recent efforts, Indonesia still faces significant 
hurdles in attracting commercial financing and private investors to develop geothermal power.  A 
number of issues have also constrained the state-owned enterprises to expand geothermal power 
capacity in fields under their control.  The main barriers that deter investments in geothermal 
power expansion include the following: 
 
Lack of an adequate policy framework that incorporates the environmental benefits of 
geothermal energy and provides sufficient economic incentives for investing in the sector
.
Despite a flurry of government initiatives in the last four years two critical issues remain 
unaddressed: (i) the environmental benefit and the initially higher cost of developing geothermal 
power, compared with building coal-fired power plants, meaning that economic incentives for 
harnessing the benefit and bridging the cost gap are needed to promote investments in 
geothermal power; and (ii) the exploration risks associated with developing upstream geothermal 
resources, which, without proper mitigation mechanisms or compensation, often deter 
investments in the sector.  The introduction of appropriate economic incentives is particularly 
important in the next five years or so for developing the brownfields that are already explored 
Page  3
and geothermal resources confirmed, and remain under the control of either private operators or 
state-owned enterprises.  In the longer term, the introduction of an effective risk mitigation 
mechanism will be important to address the uncertainty and the resulting costs associated with 
exploration of greenfields.  These policy issues need to be addressed to effect future geothermal 
power project transactions.     
 
Lack of government planning and management capabilities to efficiently conduct transactions of 
geothermal power projects
.
Presently, the government has relatively weak administrative and 
technical capabilities to conduct geothermal power transactions.  The MEMR has limited 
capability to plan and identify suitable geothermal opportunities for development.  This is partly 
evident in the inconsistency between the GoI geothermal blueprint and the power expansion plan 
by the state-owned power utility, PLN.  Furthermore, there is very little experience within the 
MEMR in preparing and designing (structuring) investment transactions so that they can be 
made attractive (bankable) to potential investors.  Therefore in order to move forward, MEMR 
will need to develop a credible process for transacting future greenfield geothermal sites in 
compliance with the Geothermal Law.  
 
Lack of domestic technical capabilities to support long-term growth in the sector
.
The domestic 
capability is weak in almost all the major areas of geothermal development from resource 
identification to operation of geothermal power generation facilities. The level of domestic 
participation in all parts of the value chain of geothermal resource development is low, and 
project costs remain high as a result.  There is no coordinated effort to develop the skills of 
domestic professionals in the sector, or efforts to reduce costs through technology transfer.  
Given Indonesia’s large share of world geothermal resources, the GoI is keen to support 
increased involvement of concerned domestic industries in the sector. 
 
If Indonesia is to accelerate the development of geothermal resources and to achieve the goals set 
forth by the Blueprint, it will be necessary for the GoI to address these key interrelated barriers.  
It is estimated that some 10,000 MW of geothermal power capacity is economically viable when 
local and global environmental benefits are considered (see Annex 4).  The economically viable 
geothermal resources are likely to grow as the resource assessment and exploration deepens.  Yet 
a
business-as-usual scenario suggests that Indonesia’s installed geothermal power capacity would 
only reach about 2,800 MW by 2020, compared with the GoI target of 6,000 MW.  To improve 
the investment climate for greater development of geothermal resources in a sustainable manner, 
these barriers would need to be tackled through an integrated set of actions.   
 
A
two-pronged strategy to move forward will be necessary, with an immediate aim to mobilize 
expansion in fields that are already partially developed, while simultaneously undertaking 
appropriate reforms to sustain long-term development of the sector.  Most existing developers 
will be looking for the GoI to address financial shortfalls involving commitments under the 
PD45/1991 and to help ensure cost recovery from new expansions.  The development of the 
large number of unallocated fields would need sufficient economic incentives offered through a 
credible transaction process. Investors will also seek opportunities to reduce their upstream 
technical risks associated with developing unexplored geothermal fields.  By undertaking such a 
reform strategy, the GoI hopes to exploit its large geothermal resource endowment and provide a 
viable alternative for replacing base-load power generation from fossil fuels. 
Page  4
2. Objectives 
The development objective of the proposed project is to promote the expansion of economic and 
environmentally friendly geothermal power generation in Indonesia, and to reduce CO
2
emissions from the power system.  The project will assist the GoI to prepare and implement its 
geothermal sector reform program designed to remove the key policy and institutional barriers 
which presently prevent greater development of geothermal resources, and will assist in the 
transaction of geothermal power investments.  The principal outcomes will be an improved 
investment environment for geothermal power projects and enhanced government capacity to 
support sector growth, leading to increased market uptake of geothermal electricity.  The key 
development indicator is the geothermal power generation capacity with secured financing 
resulting from the reforms and the transactions implemented through the project.   
 
The global environment objective of the project is to promote on-grid electricity from 
geothermal sources, reducing the need for coal-based generation capacity, and avoiding 
associated greenhouse gas emissions.  The outcome will be increased geothermal energy in 
electricity grids.  The key global environment indicator is the amount of carbon dioxide 
emissions that will be avoided due to the utilization of geothermal power from investments that 
result from the reforms and transactions of the proposed project.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank is supporting the GoI with its infrastructure and energy sector reform efforts, and has 
been requested by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources to assist with the proposed 
project.  The proposed project would be an expansion of work already underway in the 
geothermal sector where the Bank has been advising the MEMR on its reform agenda.  A 
recently commissioned study by the World Bank on identifying barriers that prevent greater 
levels of investments in geothermal is serving as input into designing the concept of the reform 
program.  A subsequent study is also assisting MEMR enhance their understanding of pricing 
and transaction issues.  Furthermore, the Bank is facilitating a carbon finance transaction of the 
Lahendong geothermal project in North Sulawesi, which will provide greater insights into 
addressing the challenges facing geothermal developers. 
 
The Bank has a significant engagement in assisting the government to expand investments in the 
infrastructure sector through public-private partnerships, which would benefit geothermal power 
development.  As a result, present work through the Private Participation in Infrastructure 
Technical Assistance Project, the Guarantee Framework, and the Infrastructure Facility, could be 
well placed to support the expansion of geothermal power.  In fact, the transaction that is 
expected to be tendered through the proposed project would be consistent with the national 
agenda for developing model projects to serve as examples to be replicated in subsequent 
competitive tenders. 
 
The Bank can also bring considerable international experience that would correspond with all 
aspects of the proposed project.  In the Philippines, the world’s second largest geothermal 
producer, the Bank has financed geothermal investment projects which will provide insights into 
the development challenges and technical risks specifically associated with the sector.  Several 
Page  5
investment funds being supported by the Bank and the GEF in Africa and Eastern Europe could 
provide lessons and experiences in investment risk management.  Experiences in applying 
pricing and incentive policies to spur the development of renewable energy supplies in other 
countries could be useful for Indonesia to consider as they attempt to resolve their own pricing 
issues related to the development of geothermal power. 
 
By undertaking a two-pronged strategy to catalyze immediate investments, while at the same 
time, reforming the sector for long-term development, Indonesia will be able to exploit its large 
geothermal resource endowment as a readily available alternative for replacing base-load power 
generation from fossil fuels.  Greater utilization of geothermal resources for power generation 
will benefit Indonesia in a number of ways that include: (i) improved local and global 
environment; (ii) enhanced energy security by utilizing a non-tradable indigenous resource; and 
(iii) improved power generation mix as geothermal energy can serve as a hedge against the 
volatility of fossil-
based commodity prices.  Since Indonesia’s future base-load power expansion 
is primarily coal-based, any incremental development of geothermal power will displace an 
equivalent amount of coal-fired power.   
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed project is designed to address some of these key barriers in an integrated manner 
so that investments in geothermal can be mobilized quickly for fields that are ready to be 
developed while also including measures that will strengthen the long-term development 
prospects.  The components that make up this integrated geothermal policy reform project are: 
 
Component 1: Policy Framework for Scaling-Up the Development of Geothermal Power. 
The project will aim to assist the GoI improve the present set of policies in order to enhance the 
investment climate for high quality geothermal development. 
·
Policy to Address Incremental Costs: 
This sub-component is designed to develop a 
pricing mechanism to provide adequate economic incentives for developing geothermal 
resources.  It will also address any incremental costs that may be associated with some 
geothermal developments as a result of the market failure to incorporate the 
environmental externalities into investment decisions, which remains a key barrier to 
geothermal development.  
·
Instrument for Upstream Risk Mitigation: 
This sub-component is designed to create a 
mechanism for mitigating upstream resource development risks faced by geothermal 
developers in Indonesia.  It is intended to limit investor’s exposure to uncertainty 
stemming from the potential power capacity in geothermal fields and the relatively higher 
upfront investment costs – both of which can be prohibitive for commercial financing of 
geothermal projects.  
·
Support the implementation of the Geothermal Law: 
This sub-component will review 
the Geothermal Law and the draft Implementation Rules and Regulations of the 
Geothermal Law as well as other related policies, identify gaps within the documents and 
potential hindrances to future geothermal power project investments, and recommend 
necessary changes and supplementary policies and regulations, in view of the coherence 
of the overall policy framework for geothermal power development in Indonesia. 
Page  6
Component 2: Transactions to Mobilize Investments in the Geothermal Sector.
This 
component will assist the GoI, especially the MEMR, to develop the capacity for planning and 
transacting geothermal power developments in an efficient and transparent manner.  The present 
lack of a credible mechanism for offering geothermal development opportunities is a key 
shortcoming to attracting investors.  
·
Expanding development in fields that are already allocated to investors:
 
This sub-
component is designed to catalyze investments by existing developers to expand 
geothermal power generation in fields under their control.  It will help structure offers 
that would lead to the development of about 300 MW of new generation capacity in these 
geothermal fields (for estimated leveraged investment of about US$700 million).  
·
Tendering unexplored and unallocated fields for development.
 This sub-component will 
develop the procedures through which MEMR will offer new geothermal development 
opportunities to potential investors.  This sub-component will financially engineer a 
selected project (50 MW installed capacity or greater in scale) to ensure that it is 
“bankable” and offer it through the transaction process in order to mobilize financing 
towards developing the investment (for a leveraged investment of about US$100 million). 
 
Component 3: Technical Capacity Building.
This component will address the limited 
domestic technical capacity for handling most geothermal related activities, and support the 
long-term development prospects of the sector.    
·
Training to facilitate geothermal transactions. 
This sub-component will train relevant 
staff in the central and local governments in preparing transactions, engaging investors, 
evaluating bids, and negotiating financial closings.   
·
Awareness program for geothermal development. 
This sub-component is designed to 
enhance the familiarity of various stakeholders with the implementation aspects of the 
Geothermal Law as well as the GoI geothermal power development targets and sector 
reform program. 
·
Long-Term cost reduction options.
 
As a preparation for implementing a cost reduction 
program in geothermal related industries in Indonesia for enhanced domestic 
participation and competitiveness, the project will support an industrial analysis that will 
be conducted to identify key areas where local industries maintain a comparative 
advantage, and develop a sector strategy to strengthen their roles and participation in the 
geothermal power development industry.
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 5 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
4 
 Total 
9 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Page  7
The proposed project will be implemented by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources 
through its Directorate General of Mineral, Coal and Geothermal (DGMCG).  The MEMR is 
uniquely positioned to implement the proposed project for it is the sole national agency 
responsible for policy formulation and regulation of both the power sector and the geothermal 
sector.  The Directorate of Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Ground Water Management 
(DGESGWM) under the DGMCG will be the executive implementation unit.   
 
A
Stakeholder Advisory Group will be established by DGESGWM to review and comment on 
key project outputs, including intermediate results, and help enhance the focus and effectiveness 
of the policy recommendations.  The advisory group will meet twice a year or depending on 
work progress.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The GoI has intensified its support to geothermal power development in recent years by (i) 
shoring up the legal basis through the Geothermal Law; (ii) increasing institutional capacity 
through the establishment of a dedicated government branch; and (iii) consolidating knowledge 
and information on sector potential through an extensive and in-depth assessment of geothermal 
resources.  The GoI is moving toward the next and critical step of mobilizing investments and 
has requested the Bank’s assistance to enhance the policy framework with specific issues to 
address, including development and introduction of economic incentive and risk mitigation 
instruments with associated financing mechanisms and regulatory assurances, as well as 
implementation of investment transactions for immediate expansion of generation in partially 
developed fields and for competitive tendering of unexplored fields.  These results-driven 
activities are expected to significantly increase geothermal power generation in the near term 
while also establishing the essential building blocks for sustained growth in the sector.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
A
universal lesson for developing renewable energy resources is that they need strong 
government policy support to gain a foothold in the fossil fuel dominated energy markets, and 
that aspiring government goals for renewable energy development need concrete and clear 
regulatory provisions and/or economic incentives to materialize.  Broadly speaking the key 
lessons for developing on-grid renewable energy are:
2
·
Mandatory market uptake requirements are effective policies to support scaling up of on-grid 
renewable energy supplies.  These regulations may be in the forms of mandatory purchase of 
renewable-energy-based power at a fixed price, such as the electricity feed-in law in Germany, or 
renewable energy portfolio standards (RPS) introduced in the US. 
·
Two-key forms of support go hand-in-hand in helping develop a market for on-grid renewable 
energy supplies:  creating a favorable investment climate for private power projects, and 
establishing a transparent and stable regulatory framework for independent power production.  In 
many countries, utility regulatory frameworks that allow fair competition for electricity 
2
Grid-based Renewable Energy in Developing Countries: Policies, Strategies, and Lessons from the GEF, Eric 
Martinot, 2002, http://www.gefweb.org/Martinot_WCRE_June2002.pdf
.
Page  8
generation by independent power producers, including power purchase agreement and a 
transparent and stable tariff setting regime, are an essential first step towards creating private 
markets for renewable energy.  In addition, rules and institutions for bidding and transacting 
power purchases are also essential elements of a power market. 
·
In view of encouraging economically viable development of renewable energy sources 
(capturing their environment benefits), policy frameworks must address the question of how the 
additional cost of renewable-energy-based power (relative to conventional sources) can be 
covered 
—
and especially the questions of who will pay this additional cost and what 
policy/institutional mechanism allow the additional cost to be collected. 
·
Market development takes time and that a large and growing domestic industry is required to 
work out regulatory, contractual, technical, and operational challenges of on-grid renewable 
energy.  This means that 
GEF assistance must focus explicitly on the medium and short-term 
outcomes which ensure that sustainable regulatory mechanisms, policies, financing, and 
adequate skills and manpower are developed
.
One of the key focuses of GEF assistance would 
be the development of frameworks for independent power producers, formulation of model 
power-purchase agreements, feed-in tariff schemes, and simplified procedures for access to the 
grid. 
 
Geothermal power development involves substantial risks and upfront investments to confirm 
the reliability of the energy source and the capacity for power generation.  Mitigation of the 
financial risk associated with the upstream steam field development is a major hurdle for 
geothermal investors.  Various mitigation measures have been used internationally to share the 
risk of upstream geothermal exploration, and the main methods have included: (i) 
Exploratory 
drilling cost-sharing
.
During 1979 and 1980 the United States Department of Energy (DOE) 
used federal funds to share the risk of exploratory drilling (with industry) in 15 prospect areas of 
Utah and Nevada.  A similar approach is now used by the US DOE through the Geothermal 
Resource Exploration and Definition Program.  (ii) 
Government-sponsored exploration
.
The 
Philippines National Oil Company (PNOC) undertook upstream exploration through a service 
contract with the national government.  Similar government-sponsored exploration programs 
also exist in Iceland and New Zealand.  (iii) 
Partial risk guarantee fund
.
In countries in the 
African Rift Valley, a guarantee is provided to cover the exploratory risk and appraisal drilling at 
the early stages of resource exploration as well as during the advanced stage of production 
drilling.  A combination of subsidies and insurance is provided to cover exploration risks while 
the prospect of a fully unsuccessful well is covered through insurance.   These and other 
international experience will be drawn upon towards developing a policy that is applicable in 
Indonesia. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Page  9
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indonesia’s future expansion of base-load power is predominantly expected to be coal-based, and 
any incremental development of geothermal power resulting from the project will displace an 
equivalent amount of power produced from coal.  It is initially estimated that a business-as-usual 
approach is only likely to result in about 2,800 MW of the GoI target of 6,000 MW by 2020 set 
in the Geothermal Blueprint.  With the implementation of the proposed reforms, GoI can quickly 
mobilize some of the fields that are already partially developed and are not hindered by other 
obstacles.  This could enable financial closure within the duration of the project of as much as 
500 MW of incremental capacity and develop them in a relatively short period of time.   Over the 
longer-term the reforms supported through the project will enable further expansion in these 
fields while also promoting the development of greenfield areas that are unexplored.  With the 
help of the proposed project, the GoI will be able to get their geothermal development program 
back on track towards achieving their target.  Over the long-term, this would result in an 
incremental capacity of 3,200 MW by 2020, which would result in the reduction of about 7.0 
million tons of CO
2
per year.   The project will also facilitate compliance by geothermal power 
investors with Indonesian environmental assessment regulations, and for investors who are 
interested in securing international financing, suggest measures that would be consistent with 
international good practice. 
 
The proposed project will not have a direct environmental impact as it will not finance 
geothermal investments.  Therefore, the project is classified as environmental assessment 
Category C, where an environmental assessment is not required.  Instead, the project seeks to 
assist geothermal developers, who will bid on transactions that are competitively tendered under 
Component 2, in complying with safeguards requirements in Indonesia. 
 
GOI’s AMDAL (environmental and social assessment) requirements are generally adequate for 
the energy sector, but it is their implementation that can often fall short of the standard desired 
by the Ministry of Environment.  As a part of the transaction component, the project will seek to 
improve the application of the existing environmental and social regulations in Indonesia.  A 
Guidance Document on environmental and social aspects of geothermal development will be 
developed and included in the bid package.   
 
The Guidance Document will include: 
 
(a) Guidelines, timelines and models for compliance with GOI environmental and social 
requirements; and  
 
(b) Suggestions based on international good practice to enhance the “bankability” of potential 
projects for investors intending to make proposed projects suitable for international financiers.   
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
Disclosure of the ISDS and PID will be adequate to inform interested stakeholders of the 
safeguards arrangements for the project.  Consultation will become important when the guidance 
document is drafted.  MEMR will arrange for consultations on the drafts with stakeholders that 
will include MOE, environmental NGOs, industry representatives, a sample of sub-national 
environmental and development planning agencies (drawing from areas where geothermal power 
development is most likely), and interested bilateral and multilateral development agencies.  The 
completed guidance document will be made available to the public in Indonesia and in the 
Bank’s InfoShop 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
None 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Migara Jayawardena 
Title: Special Asst. to Vice President 
Tel: (202) 473-3313 
Fax:  
Email: mjayawardena@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
