Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/23/2008 
Report No.:  AC3268
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Indonesia 
Project ID:  P099757 
Project Name:  Geothermal Power Generation Development 
Task Team Leader:  Migara Jayawardena 
GEF Focal Area: Climate change 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 17, 
2007 
Estimated Board Date: May 29, 2008 
Managing Unit:  EASTE 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  Renewable energy (75%);Power (25%) 
Theme:  Climate change (P);Other financial and private sector development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
4.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
5.00
5.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project's development objective is to assist the GoI to prepare and implement their 
geothermal reform program designed to address key policy, institutional, and risk 
associated barriers in order to promote the progressively greater utilization of geothermal 
resources that will provide renewable energy to the electricity market in an efficient, cost-
effective, and environmentally friendly manner. The key barriers are:  
 
-
Lack of an adequate policy framework that incorporates the environmental benefits of 
geothermal and provides sufficient incentives for investing in the sector;  
 
-
Lack of management, planning, and implementing capabilities to identify, prepare 
tender and supervise the development of feasible geothermal resources;  
 
-
Technical risks associated with developing upstream geothermal resources, 
particularly in unexplored areas (greenfields); and  
 
-
Lack of domestic technical capacity;  
 
The global environment objective of the project is to help address climate change 
(Priority #4) through the reduction of GHG emissions.  The proposed project falls in the 
operational areas o the GEF's Operational Program 6 "Promotion the Adoption of 
Page  2
Renewable Energy by Removing Barriers and Reducing Implementation Costs".  It will 
primarily address GEF's strategic priority of CC-3 - power sector policy frameworks 
supportive of renewable energy.   
 
3. Project Description 
The proposed project is designed to address some of these key barriers in an integrated 
manner so that investments in geothermal can be mobilized quickly for fields that are 
ready to be developed while also including measures that will strengthen the long-term 
development prospects.  The components that make up this integrated geothermal policy 
reform project are:  
 
Component 1: Policy Framework for Scaling-Up the Development of Geothermal 
Power. The project will aim to assist the GoI improve the present set of policies in order 
to enhance the investment climate for high quality geothermal development.  
 
-
Policy to Address Incremental Costs:  This subcomponent is designed to develop a 
pricing mechanism to provide adequate economic incentives for developing geothermal 
resources.  It will also address any incremental costs that may be associated with some 
geothermal developments as a result of the market failure to incorporate the 
environmental externalities into investment decisions, which remains a key barrier to 
geothermal development.  
 
-
Instrument for Upstream Risk Mitigation:  This sub-component is designed to create a 
mechanism for mitigating upstream resource development risks faced by geothermal 
developers in Indonesia.  It is intended to limitinvestor's exposure to uncertainty 
stemming from the potential power capacity in geothermal fields and the relatively higher 
upfront investment cost - both of which can be prohibitive for commercial financing of 
geothermal projects.  
 
-
Support the implementation of the Geothermal Law:  This sub-component will review 
the Geothermal Law and the draft Implementation Rules and Regulations of the 
Geothermal Law, identify gaps within the documents and potential hindrances to future 
geothermal power project investments, and recommend necessary amendments and 
supplementary policies and regulations.  
 
C2.3 Component 2: Transactions to Mobilize Investments in the Geothermal Sector.  
This component will assist the GoI, especially the MEMR, to develop the capacity for 
planning and transacting geothermal power developments in an efficient and transparent 
manner.  The present lack of a credible mechanism for offering geothermal development 
opportunities is a key shortcoming to attracting investors.  
 
-
Expanding development in fields that are already allocated to investors:  This sub-
component is designed to catalyze investments by existing developers to expand 
geothermal power generation in fields under their control.  It will help achieve financial 
closures for installation of at least 300 MW of new generation capacity (for estimated 
Page  3
leverged investment of about US$700 million)in these geothermal fields, by project 
closing.  
 
-
Tendering unexplored and unallocated fields for development.  This sub-component 
will develop the procedures through which MEMR will offer new geothermal 
development opportunities to potential investors.  This sub-component will also 
financially engineer a selected project (50 MW installed capacity or greater in scale for a 
leveraged investment of at least US$100 million) to ensure that it is "bankable" and offer 
it to investors through the transaction process towards achieving financial closure of the 
investment.  
 
C2.4. Component 3: Technical Capacity Building:  This component will address the 
limited domestic technical capacity for handling most geothermal related activities, and 
support the long-term development prospects of the sector.  
 
-
Training to facilitate geothermal transactions.  This sub-component will train relevant 
staff in the central and local governments in preparing transactions, engaging investors, 
evaluating bids, and negotiating financial closings.  
 
-
Awareness program for geothermal development.  This sub-component is designed to 
enhance the familiariaty of various stakeholders with the implementation aspects of the 
Geothermal Law as wellas the GoI geothermal power development targets and sector 
reform program.  
 
-
Long-Term cost reduction options.  As a preparation for implementing a cost reduction 
program in geothermal related industries in Indonesia for enhanced domestic 
participation and competitiveness, the project will support an industrial analysis that will 
be conducted to identify key areas where local industries maintain a comparative 
advantage, and develop a sector strategy to strengthen their roles and participation in the 
geothermal power development industry.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project is primarily capacity building and assistance for development of policy 
frameworks and approaches.  However, the project will also assist MEMR to develop 
model procedures and processes, including environmental and social assessments and 
management plansas well as bidding documents, for transacting geothermal fields in an 
efficient and transparent manner.  The location of these fields is as yet unknown, but is 
likely to be national in scope.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Thomas E. Walton (AFTTR) 
Mr Bruce M. Harris (EASTE) 
 
Page  4
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Indonesia's future expansion of base-load power is predominantly expected to be coal-
based, and any incremental development of geothermal power resulting from the project 
will displace an equivalent amount of power produced from coal.  It is initially estimated 
that a business-as-usual approach is only likely to result in about 2,800 MW of the GoI 
target of 6,000 MW by 2020 set in the Geothermal Blueprint.  With the implementation 
of the proposed reforms, GoI can quickly mobilize some of the fields that are already 
partially developed and are not hindered by other obstacles.  This could enable financial 
closure within the duration of the project of as much as 500 MW of incremental capacity 
and develop them in a relatively short period of time.  Over the longer-term the reforms 
supported through the project will enable further expansion in these fields while also 
promoting the development of greenfield areas that are unexplored.  With the help of the 
proposed project, the GoI will be able to get their geothermal development program back 
on track towards achieving their target.  Over the long-term, this would result in an 
incremental capacity of 3,200 MW by 2020, which would result in the reduction of about 
7.0 million tons of CO2 per year.  The project will also facilitate compliance by 
geothermal power investors with Indonesian environmental assessment regulations, and 
for investors who are interested in securing international financing, suggest measures that 
would be consistent with international goood practice.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
NA   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
NA   
 
Page  5
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The proposed project will not have a direct environmental impact as it will not finance 
geothermal investments.  Therefore, the project is classified as environmental assessment 
Category C, where an environmental assessment is not required.  Instead, the project 
seeks to assist geothermal developers, who will bid on transactions that are competitively 
tendered under Component 2, in complying with safeguards requirements in Indonesia.  
 
GOI's AMDAL (Environmental an Social Assessment) requirements are generally 
adequate for the energy sector, but it is their implementation that can often fall short of 
the standard desired by the Ministry of Environment.  As a part of the transaction 
component, the project will seek to imporove the application of the existing 
environmental and social regulations in Indonesia.  A Guidance Document on 
environmental and social aspectes of geothermal development will be developed and 
included in the bid package. The Guidance Document will include:  
 
a) Guidelines, timelines and models for compliance with GOI environmental and social 
requirements; abd  
 
b)
suggestions based on international good practice to enhance the "bankability" of 
potential projects for investors intending to make proposed projects suitable for 
international financiers.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Disclosure of the ISDS and PID will be adequate to inform inteested stakeholders of the 
safeguards arrangements for the project. Consultation will become important when the 
guidance document is drafted.  MEMR will arrange for consultations on the drafts with 
stakeholders that will include MOE, environmental NGOs, industry representatives, a 
sample of sub-national environmental and development planning agencies (drawing from 
areas where geothermal power development is most likely), and interested bilateral and 
multilateral development agencies.  The completed guidance document will be made 
available to the public in Indonesia and in the Bank's Infoshop.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Page  6
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
N/A   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Migara Jayawardena 
11/29/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Thomas E. Walton 
11/29/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Bruce M. Harris 
11/30/2007 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Panneer Selvam Lakshminarayanan 
08/23/2007 
Comments:  Safeguard Clearance transferred to EASTE by Reg. Safeguards coordinator, e-mail 
dated August 23, 2007 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Junhui Wu 
12/03/2007 
Comments:   
