                                                   Document of
                                               The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                      ReportNo: 41420-ID




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                       ONA

                PROPOSEDGLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY (GEF) GRANT

                                              OF US$4MILLION

                                                     TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                      FORA



              GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                  May 1,2008




Transport, EnergyandMining Sector Unit
SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
EastAsia andPacific Region

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                             (Average of December, 2007)

                                          Currency Unit = IndonesianRupiah
                                                IDR9,350 = U S $ l


                                                     FISCAL YEAR

                                               January1      - December31



                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB         AsianDevelopment Bank                                JICA     Japan InternationalCooperation Agency
AMDAL       Analysis o f Impacts on the Living Environment       JOC      Joint Operation Contract

BPKP        Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan Pemerintah
            (Government Audit Agency)                            JBIC     Japan Bank for International Cooperation

C D M       Clean Development Mechanism                          KPK      Komte Pernberantasan Korupsi (Anti Corruption
                                                                          C o m s s i o n )
DOE         Department o f Energy (USA)                          KPPN     Kantor Pembayaran PengeluaranNegara (State
                                                                          ExpenditurePayment Office)
DGMCG       Directorate General for Mineral, Coal and
            Geothermal                                           MEMR     MinistryofEnergy andMineral Resources
            Directorate for Geothermal Enterprise Supervision
DGESGWM     andGroundWater Management                            MOF      MinistryofFinance
            Directorate General for Electricity and Energy
DGEEU      Utilizatio?                                           MIGA     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

DG         Directorate General                                   M O E    Ministrv o f Environment
DA         Designated (Special) Account                          NGO      Non Government Organization
DOE        Departmentof Energy (USA)                             ODA      Official Development Assistance
EIA   -     Environment Impact Assessment                        PID      Project Information Document
                                                                                           I

FGD      1 -
           Flue Gas Desulfunzation                               P M M    Proiect Management Manual
FM         Financial Management                                  PIP      Project Implementation Plan
GO1        Government o f Indonesia                              P M U    Project Management Unit
GEF         Global Environment Facility                          PPA      Power Purchase Agreement
GHG        Greenhouse Gas                                        PDO      Proiect DeveloDment Obiective
IFC        International Finance Corporation                    PNOC      Philippines National Oil Corporation
                                                                               _ _
ISDS       Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet                       PLN      Perusahaan ListrikNegara (State Electricity
                                                                          Company)
IA         Implementing Agency                                 , P D 45   Presidential Decree no.45/199 1
I G        Inspector General                                    RPS       Renewable Portfolio Standard

IPP        Independent Power Producer                           UNFCCC    UnitedNations Framework for Combating
                                                                          Climate Change
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and
           Development


                                          Vice President:         James Adams
                                       Country Director:          Joachim von Amsberg
                                         Sector Manager:          Junhui Wu
                                     Task Team Leader:            Migara Jayawardena

                                                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                      EASTASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
                                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                             CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                    Page


     I STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE
      .                                                                                .............................................................  1

            A. Country andSector Issues.............................................................................................                  1
            B Rationalefor Bank Involvement...................................................................................
               .                                                                                                                                      2
             C. Higher Level Objectives to which the Project Contributes ..........................................                                   3

     I1.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      .............................................................................................   3

            A. FinancingInstrument....................................................................................................                3
            B. Project DevelopmentObjective andKey Indicators.....................................................                                    3
             C. Project Components ......................................................................................................             4
            D. Lessons Learned andReflected inthe ProjectDesign..................................................                                     7
            E. Alternatives Considered andReasons for Rejection.....................................................                                  8

    I11 .   IMPLEMENTATION                  ......................................................................................................    9

            A. PartnershipArrangements.............................................................................................                   9
            B InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements ..........................................................
               .                                                                                                                                      9
            C. Monitoring and Evaluation of OutcomesResults.......................................................                                   10
            D. SustainabilityandReplicability..................................................................................                      10
            E. Critical Risks andPossible Controversial Aspects .....................................................                                10
            F. Grant Implementation Conditions...............................................................................                        11

    I V .   APPRAISAL SUMMARY                      .............................................................................................     12
            A. Economic Rationale for DevelopingGeothermal.......................................................                                    12
            B. Economic andFinancialAnalysis...............................................................................                          13
            C Technical.....................................................................................................................
               .                                                                                                                                     13
            D. Fudiciary.....................................................................................................................        13
            E. Social...........................................................................................................................     14
            F. Environment................................................................................................................           14
            G. Safeguard Policies.......................................................................................................             14
            H. Policy Exceptions andReadiness................................................................................                        14


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Annexes:
Annex 1: Country and Sector Background..................................................................................          16
Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies.........................                                 20
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring.............................................................................             21
Annex 4: Results ofProject Analysis ..........................................................................................    23
Annex 5: Detailed Project Description........................................................................................     47
Annex 6: Project Costs andFinancing.........................................................................................      53
Annex 7: ImplementationArrangements.....................................................................................          54
Annex 8: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ...........................................                           59
Annex 9: Procurement Arrangements..........................................................................................       66
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues..............................................................................................   70
Annex 11: Governance and Accountability Framework (GAF)..................................................                         76
Annex 12: Project Preparation and Supervision..........................................................................           79
Annex 13: Documents inthe Project File....................................................................................        80
Annex 14: Statement of Loans andCredits .................................................................................         81
Annex 15: Country at a Glance.................................................................................................... 84
Annex 16: Incremental Cost Analysis .........................................................................................     86
Annex 17: STAP Roster Review .................................................................................................    91
Annex 18: Map No.35801........................................................................................................... 96

     INDONESIA: GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                     EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

                                                EASTE



 Sector Manager: Junhui Wu                       Themes: Infrastructure




                                        Project Financing Data:
 [ ] Loan    [ ] Credit   [XI Grant   [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:

 Total GEF grant financing (US$m): US$4.0



 Recipient
 GEF

 Recipient: Republic o f Indonesia
 Responsible agency: Ministry o fEnergy and MineralResources                         -
 c
 Estimated disbursements of GEF Grant (Bank FY/US$m)




 Project implementation period: Start July 2008      End: June 2011
 Expected effectiveness date: July 1,2008
 Expected closing date: June 30,201 1

IDoes the  project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects? o Yes
                                                                                I     [XINo I
 Re$ PAD I.C
 Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies? Re$ PAD I K G       o Yes[XINo
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                    oYes oNo
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                    oYes [XINO
 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"? Re$  o Yes[XINo
 PADIII.E

Project development objective Re$ PAD ILB, TechnicalAnnex 3
Promotethe expansion o f economic and environmentally fiiendly geothermal power generation
inIndonesiaandreduce COz emissions fromthepower system.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD II.C, Technical
Annex 5
Component 1:Policy Framework for Scaling-up the Development o f Geothermal Power
Component 2: Transactions Management for Mobilizing Investments inGeothermalPower
Generation
Component 3:Geothermal Sector Technical Capacity Building
Component 4: Project Management Assistance
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD I K G, TechnicalAnnex 10
Environmental Assessment (clarification o froles andresponsibilities for developers undertaking
project-facilitatedtransactions)
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD ZZI.F

Boardpresentation: None.

Loadcredit effectiveness: The grant agreement contains standard effectiveness conditions,
including the selection o f a Project Manager and the adoption o fthe final Project Management
Manual.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

    Prior to undertakingthe offering o f a pilot transaction o f a new geothermal field to investors
    as a part o f Component 2, the Go1will ensure that:

    (i)MEMRhasdevelopedthepoliciesandfundingmechanismtoprovidesufficienteconomic
        incentives to address incremental costs associated with geothermal power under
        Component 1o fthe Project; and
    (ii) hasreachedagreement withpower off-taker onthe form ofamodelpower
        MEMR
       purchase as well as off-take agreements.

    Prior to undertaking the offering o f a pilot transaction o f a new geothermal field to investors
    as a part o f Component 2 Project, the selected project shall have been subject to technical,
    economic, financial and environmental screening criteria developed during Project
    implementation.

     The bidding documents for the pilot transaction will include an environmental and social
    guidance document.

    DGESGWM will select financial management consulting services no later than one (1)
    month after project effectiveness.

I. STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE

A.      Countryand Sector Issues

1.      Indonesia has made a strong economic recovery from the 1997 financial crisis. Its gross
domestic product (GDP) grew at an average o f 4.8 percent per year from 2000 to 2006, and
registered 5.6 and 5.5 percent growth rates in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The economy is
projected to grow at 6 to 7 percent per year during the next few years. Primary energy
consumption increased by 5.2 percent per year from 2000 to 2006, and electricity consumption
grew by about 6 percent per year duringthe same period. The demand for electricity is expected
to grow at 7 to 9 percent per year between 2007 and 2020.'

2.      Facedwith rapidlygrowing electricity demand andthe highcost o f oil the Government o f
Indonesia(GoI) i s pursuinga power generation expansion strategy that will boost the use o f coal
and natural gas while also scale up the utilization o f the country's large geothermal power
potential. In fact, PLN, the state-owned national electricity utility, is carrying out a crash
program o f building 10,000 MW o f coal-fired power plants by 2009. The increasingreliance on
coal-fired power, currently seen as a low-cost alternative to quickly expand capacity, presents a
challenge o f dealing with the associated local and global environmental impacts. Geothermal
power, on the other hand, can serve as a suitable base-load substitute for coal-fired capacity in
manyareas with much lower emissions of air pollutants andgreenhouse gases. The Go1plansto
achieve 6,000 MW o f installed geothermal power capacity by 2020, up from about 970 MW in
2007. This ambitious planwill require strong government support to materialize. Any shortfall
in the expansion of geothermal power generation capacity will most likely to be met by
additional coal-fired power plants, resulting in additional local air pollution and greenhouse gas
emissions.

3.      Indonesia has the world's largest geothermal power development potential, estimated to
be about 27,000 MW. So far, around 253 geothermal fields have been identified, and 53 o f them
are ready for detailed exploration or exploitation. The 970 MW of installed capacity accounts
for less than 4 percent o f the identified potential. Most o f the currently installed geothermal
power capacity was the result o f a Go1 initiative in 1991 to develop about 4,500 MW of
geothermal power under a PresidentialDecree (PD45/1991). But the development stalled inthe
aftermath o f the Asian Financial Crisis. Geothermal contracts along with other power purchase
agreements with private producers were suspended during the economic turmoil. They were
subsequently either renegotiated or cancelled. Many o f the existing investors who were already
producing power eventually renegotiated their power purchase agreements at substantially
reduced tariff levels. Many others who had rights but were yet to develop their respective fields
opted to transfer these assets back to public control, either as a result of arbitration proceedings
or the cancellation o f their contracts.  Presently, there i s nearly 1,000 MW o f unexploited
geothermal power potential under private control and over 3,000 MW with state-owned
enterprises. About halfof these resources are ingeothermal fields which are currently producing
electricity (brownfields) or with confirmed reserves (quasi-brownfields) and are well placed for
fbrther expansion.



    Economic and energy data in this   section were drawn mainly from: World Bank country brief
    (~~w.worldbank.orrrlid),
                          APEC Energy Overview 2006 (h~:i/www.ieei.or,i~la~erc/eiiernv overview.html),
    andIndonesiaandClimateChange: Current Status andPolicies, PEACE, 2007 (www.worldbank.oraiid).

4.      The Go1has intensified its efforts to revive and scale up geothermal power development
in the past few years. In2003, the Geothermal Law (Law 27/2003) was promulgated, making
geothermal the only renewable energy governed by its own law. The Law, among other things,
mandated that hture geothermal fields (fields which were not included under the PD45/1991,
with a total potential of about 22,000 MW) must be transparently and competitively tendered for
development. It also permittedoperators o f the fields previously allocated under the PD45/1991
to retain control. In2004, the Ministryo f Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) issued the
"Blueprint for Geothermal Development in Indonesia," which was intended as a roadmap to
develop a total o f 6,000 MW of geothermal power capacity by 2020. In2005, the Directorate o f
Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Groundwater Management were established by MEMR
to strengthen sector management and support. In2006, MEMR initiated the Master Plan Study
for Geothermal Power Development in Indonesia funded by Japan International Cooperation
Agency (JICA),      further solidifying the knowledge and understanding about developing
Indonesia's geothermal resources. Despite these recent efforts, Indonesia still faces significant
hurdles inattracting commercial financing and private investors to develop geothermal power. A
number o f issues have also constrained the state-owned enterprises to expandgeothermal power
capacity in fields under their control. The main barriers that deter investments in geothermal
power expansion include the following:

5.     Lack of an adeauate policv framework that incorporates the environmental benefits of
geothermal enerm and provides sufficient economic incentives for investing in the sector.
Despite a fluny o f government initiatives in the last four years two critical issues remain
unaddressed: (i)the environmental benefits and the initially higher cost o f developing
geothermal power, compared with building coal-fired power plants, meaning that economic
incentives for harnessing the benefits and bridging the cost gap are needed to promote
investments in geothermal power; and (ii)      the exploration risks associated with developing
upstream geothermal resources, which, without proper mitigation mechanisms or compensation,
often deter investments in the sector. The introduction of appropriate economic incentives i s
particularly important inthe next five years or so for developing the brownfields that are already
explored with confirmed geothermal resources, and remain under the control o f either private
operators or state-owned enterprises. In the longer term, the introduction of an effective risk
mitigation mechanism will be important to address the uncertainty and the resulting costs
associated with exploration of geothermal fields whose resources have not been confirmed
(greenfields). These policy issues need to be addressedto effect hture geothermal power project
transactions.

6.     Lack of government planning and management capabilities to efficientlv conduct
transactions of geothermal power proiects. Presently, the Government has relatively weak
administrative andtechnical capabilities to conduct geothermal power transactions. The MEMR
has limited capability to plan and identify suitable geothermal opportunities for development.
This is partly evident in the inconsistency between the Go1geothermal blueprint and the power
expansion plan by the state-owned power utility, PLN. Furthermore, there is very little
experience within the MEMRinpreparingand designing (structuring) investment transactions so
that they can be made attractive (bankable) to potential investors. Therefore in order to move
forward, MEMR will need to develop a credible process for transacting hture greenfield
geothermal sites incompliance with the Geothermal Law.




                                                 1

7.       Lack of domestic technical capabilities to support long-term growth in the sector. The
domestic capability is weak in almost all the major areas o f geothermal development from
resource identification to operation o f geothermal power generation facilities. The level o f
domestic participation in all parts o f the value chain o f geothermal resource development i s low,
andproject costs remainhighas a result. There is no coordinated effort to develop the skills of
domestic professionals in the sector, or efforts to reduce costs through technology transfer.
Given Indonesia's large share o f world geothermal resources, the Go1 is keen to support
increased involvement o f concerned domestic industries inthe sector.

8.       IfIndonesiais to accelerate the development ofgeothermal resources andto achieve the
goals set forth by the Blueprint, it will be necessary for the Go1to address these key interrelated
barriers. It is estimated that some 10,000 MW of geothermal power capacity is-economically
viable when local and global environmental benefits are considered (Annex 4).                    The
economically viable geothermal resources are likely to grow as the resource assessment and
exploration deepens.      Yet a business-as-usual scenario suggests that Indonesia's installed
geothermal power capacity would only reach about 2,800 MW by 2020, compared with the Go1
target o f 6,000 MW. An integrated set o f actions are needed to address the key barriers and
improve the investment climate for greater and sustained development o f geothermal resources.

9.       A two-pronged strategy to move forward will be necessary, with an immediate aim to
mobilize expansion in already partially developed brownfields, while simultaneously
undertaking appropriate reforms to sustain long-term development o f the sector. Most existing
developers will be looking for the Go1to address financial shortfalls involvingpast commitments
(under the PD45/1991) andto help ensure cost recovery from new expansions. The development
o f the large number o f unallocated greenfields would need sufficient economic incentives to be
offered through a credible transaction process. Investors will also seek opportunities to reduce
their upstream technical risks associated with developing unexplored geothermal fields.          By
undertaking a reform strategy to address these issues, the Go1 hopes to accelerate the
development o f geothermal power generation andprovide a viable alternative for replacing base-
loadpower generation from fossil fuels.

 10.     Greater utilization o f geothermal resources for power generation will benefit Indonesia in
a number o f ways that include: (i)   improved local and global environment, (ii) enhanced energy
security by utilizing a non-tradable indigenous resource, and (iii)     improved power generation
mix as geothermal energy can serve as a hedge against the volatility o f fossil-based commodity
prices.

B.       Rationalefor Bank Involvement

11.      The Bank i s supporting the Go1with its infrastructure and energy sector reform efforts,
and has been requested by the Ministry o f Energy and Mineral Resources to assist with the
proposed project. The proposed project would be an expansion o f work already underway inthe
geothermal sector where the Bank has been advising the MEMR on its reform agenda. A
recently commissioned study by the World Bank on identifying barriers that prevent greater
levels o f investments in geothermal is serving as input into designing the reform program. A
subsequent study i s also assisting MEMR enhance their understanding o f pricing and transaction
issues.   Furthermore, the Bank is facilitating a carbon finance transaction of the Lahendong
geothermal project in North Sulawesi, which will provide greater insights into addressing the
challenges facing geothermal developers.

                                                  2

12.     The Bank has a significant engagement in assisting the Government to expand
investments inthe infrastructure sector through public-private partnerships, which would benefit
geothermal power development. As a result, present work through the Private Participation in
Infrastructure Technical Assistance (PPITA) Project, the Guarantee Framework, and the
Infrastructure Facility, could be well placed to support the expansion of geothermal power. In
fact, the transactions that are expected to be tendered through the proposed project would be
consistent with the national agenda for developing model projects to serve as an example to be
replicated in subsequent competitive tenders.

13.     The Bank can also bring considerable international experience relevant for all aspects o f
the proposed project. In the Philippines, the world's second largest geothermal producer, the
Bank has financed geothermal investment projects which provide insights into the development
challenges and technical risks specifically associated with the sector. Several investment fimds
being supported by the Bank and the GEF in Africa and Eastern Europe could provide lessons
and experiences ininvestment risk management. Experiences in applying pricing and incentive
policies to spur the development o f renewable energy supplies in other countries could be useful
for Indonesia to consider as they attempt to resolve their own pricing issues related to the
development of geothermal power.

C.      HigherLevelObjectivesto whichthe ProjectContributes

14.     The proposed project is consistent with the strategic objectives set forth in the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia, as well as GEF's climate change focal area.
More specifically, it will support the CAS strategy o f (i)helping improve the climate for high
quality investments, and (ii)helping improve service delivery by the utilization o f a more
efficient energyresource.

15.     The proposed project i s fully consistent with the GEF-4 Climate Change Focal Area
Strategic Objective 4 to promote on-grid renewable energy by scaling up geothermal power
generation.   The proposed barrier removal activities promote market approaches (economic
incentives and transparent commercial transactions) for the economic supply of geothermal
power in grid-based systems and fit well with the GEF-4 Climate Change Focal Area Strategic
Program 3. Scaling-up the use o f geothermal power generation capacity i s essential to backing-
up GoI's explicitly stated actions to be taken towards limiting greenhouse gas emissions in the
energy sector in Indonesia's Initial National Communication to the UNFCCC, including the
promotion o fthe use o f renewable energy, especially from geothermal resources.

11.     PROJECTDESCRIPTION

A.      FinancingInstrument

16.     The proposed project is a standalone GEF grant-financed operationwhich will directly
leverage and facilitate investments innew geothermal power generation capacity.

B.      ProjectDevelopmentObjectiveandKeyIndicators

17.     The development objective o f the proposed project i s to promote the expansion o f
economic and environmentally friendly geothermal power generation inIndonesia, and to reduce
COz emissions from the power system. The project will assist the Go1to prepare and implement
its geothermal sector reform program designed to remove the key policy andinstitutional barriers

                                                3

which presently prevent greater development o f geothermal resources, and will assist in the
transaction o f geothermal power investments. The principal outcomes will be an improved
investment environment for geothermal power projects and enhanced government capacity to
support sector growth, leading to increased market uptake of geothermal electricity. The key
development indicator i s the geothermal power generation capacity with secured financing
resulting from the reforms and the transactions implementedthrough the project.

18.      The global environment objective o f the project is to promote on-grid electricity from
geothermal sources, reducing the need for coal-based generation capacity and avoiding
associated greenhouse gas emissions.       The outcome will be increased geothermal energy in
electricity grids.   The key global environment indicator is the amount o f carbon dioxide
emissions that will be avoided due to the utilization o f geothermal power from investments that
result from the reforms andtransactions o fthe proposed project.

19.      The proposedproject is expected to have a sizable immediate impact as well as sustained
long-term benefits.     It is designed to directly leverage significant private andor public
investments by the time o f project completion. These initial projects are expected to total about
350 MW o f power generation capacity (about 300 MW from expanding existing fields and
upwards o f 50 MW from a new greenfield site), which would be more than a 35% increase in
Indonesia's present geothermal power generation capacity.         This could leverage financing
upwards o f US$700 million by the completion o f the proposed GEF assistance. The impact of
the project will also extend over the longer-tern, resulting in an estimated incremental
geothermal power capacity o f 3,200 MW and enabling the Go1 to achieve their geothermal
expansion target o f 6,000 MW by2020.

20.      The expected global environmental benefits o f the immediate expansion i s estimated to
be 60 million tons o f avoided COz emissions over the lifecycle o f the incremental installed
geothermal power capacity o f 350 MW. The commensurate long-term global environmental
benefits will be much larger, and are estimated to be inthe order o f 500 million tons o f avoided
COzemissions over the lifecycles o fthe incremental geothermal power capacity o f 3,200 MW.

C.       ProjectComponents

21.      To develop Indonesia's vast potential for geothermal power, the present barriers will
need to be addressed through several key government interventions:           (i)development and
implementation o f a policy framework for the promotion o f geothermal power, including
mechanisms for mitigatingupstream risks and offering economic incentives; (ii)    introduction and
demonstration o f credible and efficient project transaction procedures and practices; and (iii)
strengthening government support capabilities for geothermal development and introducing
initiatives to develop domestic technical capacities towards cost reduction. These actions form
the integrated design o fthe proposedproject as described below.

22.     Component 1: Policy Framework for Scaling-up the Development of Geothermal
Power (proposedGEF funding: US$l,lOO,OOO,           Go1fundingUS$2,500,000). This component
will assist the Go1indeveloping and implementing an integrated set o fpolicies that will provide
sufficient regulatory certainty, risk mitigation, and economic incentives for increased public and
private investments toward developing geothermal power in Indonesia. Three key areas o f
assistance are proposed:



                                                  4

Cl.1:    Development and implementation of policv to address incremental costs.               This
subcomponent i s designed to develop a pricing mechanism to provide adequate economic
incentives for developing geothermal resources. It will also address any incremental costs that
may be associated with some geothermal developments as a result o f the market failure to
incorporate the environmental externalities into investment decisions, which remains a key
barrier to geothermal development (see Annex 4 Sections1 & 2 for more details). The project
will study international experiences informulating pricing and economic incentive mechanisms,
evaluate the extent o f the market failure and assess the incremental costs, confirm the fimding
requirements and sources, and develop the operational procedures required to implement the
selected option.

C1.2: Development and introduction of upstream risk mitipation measures.
                                                                    -                    This sub-
component is designed to create a mechanism for mitigating upstream resource development
risks faced by geothermal developers in Indonesia (See Annex 4, Section 3 for more details). It
i s intended to limit investor's exposure to uncertainty stemming from the potential power
capacity in geothermal fields and the relatively high upfront investment costs - both o f which
can be prohibitivefor commercial financing of geothermal projects. International experience will
be evaluated before selecting a risk mitigation mechanism applicable to Indonesia, after which,
the project will develop procedures and arrange necessary funding for implementing the selected
mechanism. The development o f risk mitigation measures will be carefblly coordinated with
other aspects o f the Geothermal Policy Framework (Component 1) and with the management o f
transactions (Component 2 below) to ensure its integration.

C1.3: Support the implementation of the GeothermalLaw. This sub-component will review the
Geothermal Law and the draft Implementation Rules and Regulations o f the Geothermal Law as
well as other related policies, identify gaps within the documents and potential hindrances to
future geothermal power project investments, and recommend necessary changes and
supplementary policies andregulations, inview o f the coherence o f the overall policy framework
for geothermal power development inIndonesia.

23.     The main outputs o f this component will include (i)  formulation o f a pricingmechanism
to provide adequate economic incentives for developing geothermal power; (ii)      development of a
risk mitigation mechanism to address upstream technical risks; and (iii)       enhancement o f the
implementationrules and regulations o f the Geothermal Law. The outcome will be an improved
investment environment for geothermal powerprojects.

24.     Component 2:         Transactions Management for Mobilizing Investments in
Geothermal Power Generation (proposed GEF funding: US$2,350,000, Go1 funding:
US$l,OOO,OOO).     This component will assist the GoI, especially the MEMR, to develop the
capacity for planning and transacting geothermal power developments in an efficient and
transparent manner. The present lack of a credible mechanism for offering geothermal
development opportunities is a key barrier to attracting investors (Annex 4 Section 4). The
transactions would be the conduit through which the pricing and economic incentives inthe new
policy framework would be integrated to comprise "bankable" projects to be offered to investors.
It will aim to mobilize two distinct groups o f investors: (i)existing developers who were given
control o f geothermal fields under PD45/1991, and (ii) investment opportunities to exploit
                                                          new
geothermal resources ingreenfield sites. At a strategic level, the activities inthis component will
help operationalize policies and procedures necessary for eventually realizing the government's
goal o f 6,000 MW installed geothermal power capacity by 2020. Through this component, the

                                                 5

Go1will be able to directly leverage investments in the geothermal sector, and also establish
procedures and processes that can be replicatedbeyond the duration o fthe project.

C2.1: Expanding power generation in geothermal fields alreadv allocated to investors. This
sub-component i s designedto catalyze investments by existing developers to expand geothermal
power generation in fields under their control.    Support will be provided to review the legacy
issues o f the geothermal fields which were allocated to investors under PD45/1991, identify and
recommend appropriate solutions, develop and implement transaction agreementdarrangements
consistent with the economic incentives provided in the new policy framework developed in
Component 1, and structure offers that would lead to the development o f about 300 MW o f new
generation capacity inthese geothermal fields.

C2.2: Facilitating transactions of new geothermal -fields-for vower development. This sub-
component will help develop the procedures through which MEMR will offer new geothermal
development opportunities to potential investors. This will include the development o f criteria
for project selection, the transaction procedures, and model bidding documents, which would be
consistent with the Geothermal Law and the new policy framework for economic incentives and
riskmitigation as well as meet international standards o fgoodpractice. This sub-component will
also help to financially engineer a selected project (50 MW installed capacity or greater in scale)
to ensure that it is "bankable" and offer it through the transaction process in order to mobilize
financing towards developing the investment. This model can be subsequently customized for
offering other investment opportunities ingreenfield geothermal sites.

25.     The main outputs at implementation completion will include: (i)firm transaction
arrangements for resolving PD45/1991 legacy issues consistent with the new policy framework;
(ii)model procedures and standardized bidding documents for competitive tendering of
geothermal power projects under the Geothermal Law; and (iii)      the development o f a batch o f
geothermal power projects that will initially total about 350 MW o f installed capacity. The
outcome will be increased market uptake o f electricity generated from geothermal resources,
progressively leading to a total o f 3,200 MW incremental geothermal power capacity and help
Go1achieve its target o f 6,000 MW by 2020.

26.     Component 3: Geothermal Sector Technical Capacity Building (proposed GEF
funding: US$350,000, Go1 funding: US$1,300,000). This component will help address the
limiteddomestic technical capacity for handlingmost geothermal related activities, and support
the long-term development prospects o fthe sector.

C3.1:    Training of government officials and technical staff in planning and transaction
management. This sub-component will provide support to train relevant staff in the central and
local governments inpreparing transactions, engaging investors, evaluating bids, and negotiating
financial closings. The specific training needs will be identified and addressed as part o f the
transactions assistance work in Component 2.        The proposed activities will mainly involve
training workshops and seminars for concerned officials andtechnical staff, inaddition to the on-
the-job training which they will receive through their work infacilitating actual transactions.

C3.2: Building awareness among stakeholders. This sub-component is designed to enhance the
familiarity o f various stakeholders, including civil society, with the implementation aspects o f
the Geothermal Law as well as the Go1geothermal power development targets and sector reform
program. It will also specifically focus on sharing information regarding the transaction regime

                                                 6

developed and demonstrated by the proposed project. It will support a series o f seminars and
stakeholder discussions to promote the sector as well as obtain feedback that can be incorporated
into the ongoing reform program.

C3.3: Options for long-term cost reduction. As a preparationfor implementing a cost reduction
program in geothermal related industries in Indonesia for enhanced domestic participation and
competitiveness, the project will support an industrial analysis that will be conducted to identify
key areas where local industries maintain a comparative advantage, and develop a sector strategy
to strengthen their roles and participationinthe geothermal power development industry.

27.     The outputs o f this component will include (i)  improved transaction management skills
and knowledge o f concerned government agencies and officials; (ii)improved stakeholder
understanding o f the policies/regulations and business opportunities concerning geothermal
power development; and (iii)       a national strategy on increasing domestic participation and
technology development. The overall outcome will be enhanced government capacity to support
the long term growth o fthe sector.

28.     Component 4:           Project Management Assistance (proposed GEF funding:
US$200,000, Go1 funding: US$200,000). This component will provide the necessary technical
consultant support to the Directorate o f Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Ground Water
Management, the executive implementation unit, for the management and supervision o f the
project.

D.      LessonsLearnedandReflectedinthe ProjectDesign

29.     A universal lesson for developing renewable energy resources is that they need strong
government policy support to gain a foothold in the fossil fuel dominated energy markets, and
that aspiring government goals for renewable energy development need concrete and clear
regulatory provisions and/or economic incentives to materialize.         Broadly speaking the key
lessons for developing on-grid renewable energy are:2


    0   Mandatory market uptake requirements are effective policies to support scaling up of on-
        grid renewable energy supplies. These regulations may be in the forms o f mandatory
       purchase o f renewable-energy-based power at a fixed price, such as the electricity feed-in
        law inGermany, or renewable energy portfolio standards (RPS) introduced inthe US.
    0   Two key forms o f support go hand-in-handin helping develop a market for on-grid
       renewable energy supplies: creating a favorable investment climate for private power
       projects, and establishing a transparent and stable regulatory framework for independent
       power production.       In many countries, utility regulatory frameworks that allow fair
        competition for electricity generation by independent power producers, including power
       purchase agreement and a transparent and stable tariff setting regime, are an essential first
        step towards creating private markets for renewable energy.         In addition, rules and
       institutions for bidding and transacting power purchases are also essential elements o f a
       power market.
    0  Inview of encouraging economically viable development of renewable energy sources
       (capturing their environment benefits), policy frameworks must address the question o f


   Grid-basedRenewableEnergyinDevelopingCountries:Policies, Strategies,andLessons fromthe GEF, Eric
   Martinot, 2002, httu://www.gefweb.ordMartinot WCRE June2002.pdf.

                                                  7

         how the additional cost o f renewable-energy-based power (relative to conventional
         sources) can be covered - and especially the questions o f who will pay this additional
         cost andwhat policy/institutional mechanism allow the additional cost to be collected.
         Market development takes time and that a large and growing domestic industry i s
         required to work out regulatory, contractual, technical, and operational challenges of on-
         grid renewable energy. This means that GEF assistance must focus explicitly on the
         medium and short-term outcomes which ensure that sustainable regulatory mechanisms,
        policies, financing, and adequate skills and manpower are developed. One o f the key
         focuses o f GEF assistance would be the development o f frameworks for independent
         power producers, formulation of model power-purchase agreements, feed-in tariff
         schemes, and simplified procedures for access to the grid.

30.      Geothermal power development involves substantial risks and upfi-ont investments to
confirm the reliability o f the energy source and the capacity for power generation. Mitigationo f
the financial risk associated with the upstream steam field development i s a major hurdle for
geothermal investors. Various mitigation measures have been used internationally to share the
risk of upstream geothermal exploration, and the main methods have included: (i)        Exploratory
drilling cost-sharing. During 1979 and 1980 the United States Department o f Energy (DOE)
used federal funds to share the risk o f exploratory drilling (with industry) in 15 prospect areas o f
Utahand Nevada. A similar approach is now used by the US DOE through the Geothermal
Resource Exploration and Definition Program. (ii)        Government-sponsored exploration. The
Philippines National Oil Company (PNOC) undertook upstream exploration through a service
contract with the national government. Similar government-sponsored exploration programs
also exist in Iceland and New Zealand. (iii)     Partial risk guarantee fund. In countries in the
African Rift Valley, a guarantee is provided to cover the exploratory risk and appraisal drilling at
the early stages o f resource exploration as well as during the advanced stage o f production
drilling. A combination o f subsidies and insurance is provided to cover exploration risks while
the prospect of a fully unsuccessful well i s covered through insurance.           These and other
international experience will be drawn upon towards developing a risk mitigation mechanism
that is applicable inIndonesia.

E.       AlternativesConsideredandReasonsfor Rejection

31.      At the project identification and concept stage, the focus o f proposed activities was
primarily on assisting the development o f new greenfield geothermal power projects and on
broad sector capacity building. Two main areas o f GEF support were considered: (i)          finance
some o f the exploratory drilling to enhance the quality and certainty o f geothermal resources in
the fields which Go1 would tender; and (ii)sector capacity building through international
exchange programs o f advisory and technology transfer services and establishment o f a
geothermal research and education center in an already existing high-level technical education
institution. While some elements o f these ideas are retained in the current design o f the project
the thrusts andmeans o f support have been changed significantly for the following reasons: (i)    it
is realized during the preparation that there i s a sizable amount o f confirmed geothermal
resources (up to 2,000 MW) which can be immediately brought to market if proper economic
incentives are offered to investors and key legacy issues related to these fields are resolved; (ii)
the required funding for subsidizing exploratory drilling i s too large and cannot be supported by
the grant available; and (iii) supporting technology transfers and research and educational
                                while
programs i s important in the long-term, it would divert the limited funds fi-om more urgent
activities that are vital for scaling-up geothermal development.

                                                 8

32.      The proposed project focuses on the key policy measures that address the major barriers
to investments, and are preconditions for successfully implementing transactions to leverage
direct investments from public andprivate sources. Therefore, the present project design will not
only lead to immediate financing for expanding the generation capacity in the brownfields but
also build the foundation for successfully attracting investments into geothermal power
generation over the longer term.

111.     IMPLEMENTATION

A.       PartnershipArrangements

33.      The Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA) i s currently undertaking a detailed
technical assessment of geothermal resources across the country that will be used to update the
sector Road Map and formulate a Master Plan for Geothermal Power Development in Indonesia.
The proposed GEF project will utilize these results in developing detailed design o f each
component. The two efforts are being effectively coordinated by the Ministry o f Energy and
Mineral Resources, which is the counterpart o f both projects. Infact, the interim report o f the
JICA study has already served as one o f the basis for the analyses conducted to appraise the
proposed project.

34.      The project will work closely with the Bank's Carbon Finance Group to identify the
opportunities and efficient means for supporting geothermal projects by augmenting finances
with proceeds from carbon off-set trading utilizing the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM),
or any post-Kyoto Protocol carbon credit schemes which may emerge inthe next few years. The
project in particular and Indonesia's geothermal power development in general would benefit
greatly from a parallel effort by the MEMR to introduce a programmatic mechanism to
streamline access to carbon financing to catalyze investments ingeothermal power development,
which i s being supported by the World Bank. It could serve as a key source o f support for the
pricing mechanism for providing adequate economic incentives that i s to be developed under
sub-component C1.1.

B.      InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

35.     The proposed project will be implemented by the Ministry o f Energy and Mineral
Resources through its Directorate General of Mineral, Coal and Geothermal (DGMCG).           The
MEMR is uniquely positioned to implement the proposed project, as the sole national agency
responsible for policy formulation and regulation o f both the power sector and the geothermal
sector. The Directorate o f Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Ground Water Management
(DGESGWM) under the DGMCG will be the executive implementationunit.

36.     A Stakeholder Advisory Group will be established by DGESGWM to review and
comment on key project outputs, including intermediate results, and help enhance the focus and
effectiveness o f the policy recommendations.        The advisory group will consist o f senior
officials/experts from the Ministries o f Finance, Planning, Forestry, and Environment, as well as
MEMR, PLN, and major investors/operators o f geothermal power projects in Indonesia. The
advisory group will meet twice a year or depending on work progress. Further consultation as
well as dissemination o f information will be undertaken as a part o f the sub-component designed
to raise awareness about the project and the Go1reform geothermal program.



                                                  9

37.     DGESGWM will hire a full-time Project Manager to assist project implementation. The
project manager will report directly to the director o f DGESGWM and will be responsible for
work planning, day-to-day coordination o f project implementation activities, project progress
monitoring and reporting. Additional consultant support may be hired on a short term basis to
provide project implementationassistance as needed.

C.      Monitoring and Evaluation of OutcornesDtesults

38.     The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) will be guided by the results-based framework,
which includes specific and measurable performance indicators for the proposed project (Annex
3). DGESGWM will develop an M&E Plan as part o f its Project Implementation Plan and will
be responsible for collection of qualitative and quantitative data for the baseline, as well as for
assessment o f the relevance, effectiveness and efficiency o f the proposed interventions on an
annual basis. The M&E will be strengthened by Bank supervision missions during which the
progress toward delivery o f outputs and achievement o f results will be reviewed, key
implementation issues will be identified, and actions to solve them will be initiated. The mid-
term review o f the project i s scheduled inabout 18 months from the project effectiveness date.

D.      Sustainability and Replicability

39.     SustainabiZity: The Go1has intensified its support to geothermal power development in
recent years by (i)shoring up the legal basis through the Geothermal Law, (ii)          increasing
institutional capacity through the establishment o f a dedicated government branch, and (iii)
consolidating knowledge and information on sector potential through an extensive and in-depth
assessment o f geothermal resources. The Go1 i s moving toward the next and critical step o f
mobilizing investments and has requested the Bank's assistance to enhance the policy framework
with specific issues to address, including development and introduction o f economic incentive
andriskmitigation instruments with associated financing mechanisms andregulatory assurances,
as well as implementation of investment transactions for immediate expansion o f generation in
partially developed fields and for competitive tendering o f unexplored fields. These results-
driven activities are expected to significantly increase geothermal power generation in the near
term while also establishing the essential buildingblocks for sustained growth inthe sector.

40.     RepZicabiZity: The proposed project will help develop a framework, process and
procedures for engaging both public and private investors in geothermal resource development.
These processes, such as the pricing mechanism, competitive tender process, andmodel bidding
documents, as well as the risk mitigation measure(s) will be applicable for subsequent
geothermal investments.      It is also likely that these outputs o f the proposed project can be
replicated to enhance the development o f other renewable energy resources. Certain project
outputs, such as the model transaction for competitive tendering is also relevant to the
development o f other infrastructure projects in the power sector, given the fact that there have
been very few projects inIndonesiathat havebeen successhlly tendered to private investors.

E.      Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects

41.     The country and sector-level risks such as a relatively unfavorable overall investment
climate in Indonesia would impact all sectors including geothermal power.           However, the
Indonesian economy has been recovering robustly from the financial crisis and growth o f nearly
6% has been achieved in the last three years. Therefore, stronger economic growth and an


                                                 10

improving investment climate are expected in the coming years.                          This positive outlook i s
strengthened by the recent upgrade o f the country investment rating for Indonesia.                           The
following are some key operational risks which may undermine the proposed project from
achieving its development and global environmental objectives if adequate mitigation measures         1
are not implemented:
                                                                                                       RISKRATING
             RISKS                                 RISKMITIGATIONMEASURES                                 WITH
                                                                                                       MITIGATION

 Lack o f inter-governmental   ITheproject, through the MEMR, adopts a continuous                        Moderate
 coordination and support     I consultationapproachto engage other concerned government            I
 that may underminethe          ministries, especially the Ministries o fPlanning andFinance,
 implementation o f the         through out the project preparation and implementation to ensure
 reform program, especially     a broad support of the proposedpolicy measures. The finding
 with regardto achieving        risk for supporting anincentivemechanisminthe short-to-mid
 fmfinancingarrangements        term also i s reduced by the fact that about 2,000 MW (confirmed
 to fund the necessary          reserves) o f geothermal power inIndonesiacan be developed
 economic incentive and risk    with relatively low incrementalcost, compared to coal-fired
 mitigation mechanisms.       I plants, as well as a strong possibility o f accessing carbon finance  I
                                                                                                      I
 To Component Results
 Lack of interest among         Reports and numerous stakeholder meetings indicate that investor         Moderate
 investors due to concerns o f  interest inthe geothermal sector is high, but implementing the
 insuficient regulatory         Go1reformprogram with concrete results i s vital to gaining
 certainties and inadequate     investor confidence to make significant investments inthe sector.
 returns.                       The mainactivities ofthe proposed project are gearedtoward
                                achieving investment results by engaging major stakeholders in
                                developing supportive policies and implementing them inactual
                                transactions.
 Inadequate coordination        The MEMRi s well placed to coordinate policy between the                 Moderate
 between geothermal and         geothermal andthe power sector since bothpolicy making groups
 power sectors, especially the  are based withinthe ministry. Ways to better integrate the two
 lack ofbuy-infrom PLN,         sectors is being looked at during project preparation. More
 the state-owned national       specifically, the project has maintained a close engagement o f
 power monopoly.                PLN during preparationand will continue to consult PLN during
                                implementation.
 Overall RiskRating                                                                                     Moderate

F.       GrantImplementationConditions

42.      Prior to undertaking the offering o f a pilot transaction with respect to a new geothermal
field for power development to investors under Component 2 o f the Project, the GoI, in
agreement with the World Bank, shall ensure that:

    (i)MEMR has developed the policies and fimding mechanism to provide sufficient
         economic incentives to address incremental costs associated with geothermal power
         under Component 1ofthe Project, including a clearly definedmechanism to identify the
         off-take price o f geothermal electricity, the related fimding mechanism, the process for
         awarding the new off-take pricing to specific projects, and the implementation schedule;
         and
    (ii) hasreachedagreementwithPLNorotherappropriateoff-takerontheformofa
         MEMR
         model power purchase agreement including conditions for connecting a geothermal
         power plant to the national grid andother remainingterms within a given period.


                                                          11

43.      Prior to undertaking the offering o f a pilot transaction with respect to a new geothermal
field for power development to investors under Component 2 o f the Project, the selected project
shall have been subject to technical, economic, financial and environmental screening criteria
developedduringProject implementationand agreed with the World Bank.

44.      The bidding documents for the pilot transaction will include an environmental and social
guidance document, acceptable to the World Bank, to assist geothermal power investors and
agencies incomplying with Indonesianrequirements.

45.      To assist with project implementation, DGESGWM will select financial management
consulting services no later than one (1) month after project effectiveness.

IV.      APPRAISAL S U M M A R Y

A.       Economic Rationale for DevelopingGeothermal

46.      An analysis was carried out to assess the comparative economic competitiveness of
geothermal power generation in Indonesia. A supply curve was developed from available data
for 51 geothermal fields3 (with a total estimated capacity o f 13,824 MW) to determine the
economically optimal quantity o f geothermal energy in Indonesia comparing it to coal-based
power generation, which was the least-cost option for base-load generation expansion at the time
o f the analysis4. It also incorporates conservatively estimated environmental externalities that
should be considered in determining the economically optimal level o f geothermal development.
The results show that (i)662 MW o f geothermal capacity are economically justified if
environmental benefits are not included. (i.e. business-as-usual); (ii) MW o f geothermal2,442
power i s economically justified if local environmental benefits (reduced TSP, SO2 and NOx
emissions) are considered; and (iii)              9,669 MW are economically justified if both local and
global environmental benefits are incorporated. A more detailed description o f the assumptions,
methodology andresults are provided inAnnex 4.

47.      The economically optimal level o f geothermal power generation capacity is dependent on
the evolution o f coal and generation equipment prices.                        Since the analysis during project
preparationwas completed, the price o f coal and generation equipment have steadily risen. On
one hand, if the price o f the medium-grade, non treadeable coal used in the domestic market in
Indonesia, would rise then more geothermal power generation capacity would be economically
justified.     On the other hand, if the cost o f developing geothermal fields and the cost o f
geothermal equipment would relatively increase more than the cost o f coal generation equipment
less utilization o f the resource will be econiomically justified. At present , it i s difficult to
forecast the long-term impacts on the prospects for developing geothermal resources. However,
the analysis and recent trends lead to the following conclusions: (a) the development o f a
significant part o f the geothermal resources would remain economically justified, especially if
environmental benefits are taken into account, and (b) the voltility o f commodity prices will
impact the relative competitiveness o f geothermal power requiring more detailed analyses and
risk assessment when developing the pricinghncentivemechanism insub-component C1.1.




     Master Plan Study for Geothermal Power Development inthe Republic ofIndonesia, JICA, 2007.
     PLN carried out a least cost study using WASP (WienAutomatic SystemPlanning). Based on the assumptions
     used, it showed that coal i s the least cost option for base-load generation expansion.

                                                             12

48.     The cost effectiveness o f mitigated C02 emissions (over lifecycle o f power plants) is
evaluated based on incremental geothermal power capacity (financial closure) achieved at the
completion o f the proposed project (350 MW), compared with coal-fired power with local
environmental controls (particulates and sulfur dioxide).                      The overall cost-effectiveness o f
mitigated C02 emissions is estimated at about US$l2/ton-C02 abated. The cost-effectiveness o f
GEF financing (undiscounted) is about US$0.07/ton-C02 abated.

                 Figure 1: Indicative Cost of Supplyfor Developing Geothermal in Indonesia




                            0                     5                  10                15
                                          Installed Capacityof Geothermal (GW



B.      Economic and Financial Analysis

49.     The project will assist Go1 to reform policies and enhance institutional capacities, and
will not directly finance any investments. Therefore, an economic and financial analysis o f the
project i s not applicable.        The overall economic and financial aspects related to geothermal
development inIndonesiainthe context o f the Go1proposal are further detailed inAnnex 4.

C.      Technical

50.     Geothermal power development involves technologies in exploration similar to those
usedinthe oil and gas industry, as well as equipment inpower generation with both specialized
and standardcomponents. As a major oil and gas producing country andwith the world's fourth
largest installed geothermal capacity and over 20 years o f development experience, Indonesia is
capable o f applying the prevailing technologies to expand its geothermal power generation. The
proposed project does not invest directly in geothermal power projects. The geothermal power
projects transacted through the proposed project will employproven commercial technologies.

D.      Fudiciary

51.     The financial management assessment found that DGESGWM staff do not have
experience with Bank financed projects and the financial management staff capacity need further
strengthening.    Risks may also arise from weaknesses in internal control over training and
seminar expenditures, which in other similar projects in Indonesia, have been found to be
vulnerable to lapses in control.             These risks will be mitigated by i)providing appropriate
technical assistance to the DGESGWM to fulfil its required financial management
responsibilities; ii)puttinginplace additional financial control procedures on traininglworkshops
expenditures, such as supporting documentation that all activities are supported by reports,
attendance lists for workshops and training and third party invoices.                       Overall, the project
financial management risk i s assessed as "moderate", andthe risks will be substantially mitigated

                                                            13

if the proposed actions are successhlly implemented.                        Accordingly, the proposed financial
management arrangements satisfy the Bank's requirements under OPBP10.02. Therefore, it i s
concluded that the DGESGWM will be able to provide accurate and timely information on the
status o fthe grant as requiredby the Bank.

52.      The procurement management capacity assessment o f DGESGWM concludedthat the
overall project risk for procurement is "average."                    Procurement under the proposed project
involves mainly consultant selection and almost all the contracts will be subject to prior review.
The Bank has provided procurement training during the preparation phase o f the project to
mitigate the risk associated with the low capacity in handling Bank financed procurement.
Furthermore, the DGESGWMshall secure sufficient consultant services with experience inBank
procurement to support project implementation. The publicly held procurement activities will
also include civil society participation to ensure greater transparency.                          Additional risks and
mitigation measures are identifiedinAnnex 9.

E.       Social

53.      The proposedproject does not finance investments ingeothermal power development and
is not directly linked to activities which may have social impacts. As part o f the technical
assistance activities developing the policy framework and transaction management, due diligence
procedures will be reviewed and incorporated.

F.       Environment

54.      The proposed project will not have a direct environmental impact as it will not finance
geothermal investments. As part o f the reforms the proposed project seeks to achieve, it will
develop guidelines for prospective investors in geothermal power to assist them in complying
with the applicable social and environmental laws, regulations and guidelines o f Indonesia, and
suggest measures consistent with international good practice that may help make the investments
more "bankable", andtherefore, attractive to international financiers.

G.       Safeguard Policies

  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                              Yes                    No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OPBP 4.01)                                                     [XI                     [I
  Natural Habitats(OPBP 4.04)                                                             [ I                    [XI
  PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                                 [I                     [XI
  Physical Cultural Resources(OPBP 4.11)                                                  [I                     [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement(OPBP 4.12)                                                     11                     [XI
  IndigenousPeoples(OPBP 4.10)                                                            [I                     [XI
  Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                                     [I                     [XI
  SafetyofDams (OPBP 4.37)                                                                [ I                    [XI
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OPBP 7.60)'                                                    [ I                    [XI
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OPBP 7.50)                                                                 [XI
~~          ~




H.       Policy Exceptions and Readiness

55.      This project complies with all applicable Bank policies. This project will be ready for
implementation uponBoard approval.


* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims on the
disputedareas

                                                            14


                                     Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
   INDONESIA: GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


1.       KeyDevelopmentIssues

Indonesia could face a looming power sector crisis with the demand rising from a growing
economy outpacing the countries' ability to develop adequate generation capacity. The situation
i s further exacerbated by a heavy reliance on diesel which, given today's highprices, is eroding
the state-owned utilities' financial position hinderingtheir ability to expand. Inresponse, PLN,
the state-owned electricity utility, is embarking on a large undertaking o f constructing 10,000
MW o f coal-based power generation, which they see as one o f few immediate options available
to them to quickly expand their generation capacity at the lowest financial cost. A critical risk
with this strategy, however, is that the prices of these fossil fuels could also increase over time,
as recent trends indicate, again pushingup the cost o f supply that will undermine PLN's financial
position. Furthermore, the utilization of fossil based fuels, whether diesel or coal, presents
Indonesiawith another challenge o f dealing with the environmental impacts due to the resulting
local5as well as global pollutants, particularly the incremental greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

Geothermal power development provides a clean and efficient alternative that can complement
Indonesia's largely fossil-based energy generation mix. This i s particularly the case given that
Indonesia has an estimated 27,000 MW o f geothermal power potential - nearly 40% o f the
world's geothermal potential. Exploiting this large endowment o f resources can have a number
o f benefits: 1) its indigenous nature and local utilization provides enhanced energy security; 2)
its non-tradable nature makes geothermal power a natural hedge against the volatility o f fossil-
based commodity prices; and, 3) significant environmental benefits since geothermal is a clean
and renewable energy source. The Go1recognized the opportunity for greater utilization o f
geothermal resources and began a major effort to scale-up development in the 1990s utilizing
bothpublic andprivate channels.

The aim o f Go1was to develop about 4,500 MW o f geothermal power (see illustration inFigure
Al.1). The Go1 issued a Presidential Decree in 19916, through which they granted 11 Joint
Operating Contracts7 (JOC) to private geothermal developers to eventually exploit upwards of
3,000 MW. The remaining fields, with an estimated potential of nearly 1,500 MW were under
the development plan of two state-owned enterprises - Pertamina, the state-owned oil company,
andPLN. Subsequently, geothermal power capacity inIndonesiarapidly expanded to 807 MW,
but development stalled in the aftermath o f the Asian Financial Crisis. Very little geothermal
capacity has been added since, andby 2007 the total stands at 969 MW.




     Total SuspendedParticulates (TSP), Sulfur Dioxide (S02), Nitrogen Oxide (NOX).
'    Presidential Decree 45/1991.
     Pertamina was entrusted at the time with regulatory responsibilities for geothermal development, and therefore,
     private operators were given only the rights to develop the fields jointly with the state-owned oil company.
     Functionally, they were developed and operated by private developers, but there i s cooperation with Pertamina
     on a number o f aspects, including import duty and tax refunds.


                                                         16

                 FigureAl.1 :Status of Geothermal Power Developmentin Indonesia

                              PresidentialDecree                        Geothermal Law
                                    4511991                                 2712003




                                                                           ~G EENFI D




Geothermal contracts for private power producers, like many other power sector agreements,
were suspended during the economic turmoil, and later they were either renegotiated or
cancelled.   Many of the existing investors who were already producing power eventually
renegotiated their power purchase agreements at substantially lower tariff levels. Many others
who had rights but were yet to fully develop their respective fields opted to transfer these assets
back to public control, either as a result o f arbitration proceedings or the cancellation o f their
contract.   These geothermal fields, with an estimated total potential o f nearly 1,400 MW,
eventually reverted to public ownership with state-owned enterprises. Presently, there i s nearly
1,000 MW of unexploited power potential under private control and over 3,000 MW with state-
owned enterprises, about halfo fwhich are ingeothermal sites that are partially developed*.

Indonesia has added very little new geothermal capacity since the Asian Financial Crisis, but in
2003, the Go1made another effort to revive the sector. A new geothermal law (Law 27/2003)
was issued in 2003, making geothermal the only renewable energy governed by its own law.
The Law, among other things, shiftedregulatory authority o fthe sector back to the Go1(Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Resources), mandated that future geothermal fields (fields that were not
allocated under PD45/199 1) must be transparently and competitively tendered for development,
and enhanced the role o f local governments to be consistent with the more decentralized
governance structure practiced in Indonesia today. The Law also "grandfathered" the fields
previously allocated under PD 45 where existing operators could retain control. Inaddition, the



    Includinggeothermalfields with confirmedreserves(ready for powerdevelopment).


                                                   17

Go1also developed a Geothermal Blueprint, which was to serve as a revised roadmap to develop
a total o f 6,000 MW o f geothermal capacity by 2020'.

                          FigureAI .2 :GeothermalDevelopment Plan Blueprintand Beyond
                                                                    -

                  10,000

                   9,000
              A
                  8,000
              E
              643  7,000

                  6,000

                  5,000
                                                                  4600

              `0  4,000
              =al0      II                                                                 II
                   3,000                                3442

              -2
              c   2,000 '
                   1,000         +a07
                      0 1                                                                  1
                       2000        2005        2010         2015       2020       2025   2030




Despite these reform efforts, Indonesia still faces significant hurdles in attracting commercial
financing and private investors to develop its geothermal resources. A number o f barriers have
also constrained the state-owned enterprises' ability to expand geothermal fields under their
control. In general, the investment climate for infrastructure i s not favorably viewed by many
largely due to fragmented policies, bureaucratic red-tape, and poorly "structured" projects.
Despite being regarded as a near commercial renewable energy technology, geothermal power
development face a number o f significant issues specific to the sector that deter investment in its
expansion. These barriers include:           (a) insufficient policies and regulations to support the
implementation o f the Geothermal Law, (b) inadequate incentives and a pricing mechanisms that
would enable investors to recover costs to expand capacity to a level that is economically
optimal,    (c) Limited institutional capability to properly plan geothermal development and
sufficiently engage suitable developers; (d) weak domestic capacity in the areas o f resource
assessment, equipment manufacturing, construction, operation and maintenance o f geothermal
energy facilities; (e) technical risks associated with the upstream steam resources that creates
substantial uncertainty when developing unexplored (Greenfield) sites.                 Consequently, the
development o f new projects has been slow. Estimates suggest that Indonesia's geothermal
power capacity would reach at most 1,100 MW by 2008, nearly 75% short o f the incremental
target set byGovernment.




9  Later expanded to include an indicative longer-term target of 9,500 MW by 2025.


                                                       18

2.     RegionalAspects of Geothermal Resources in Indonesia

Most o f Indonesia's geothermal potential is found inthe islands of Java-Bali and Sumatra, which
accounts for about 37 and 51 percent o f the national total, respectively (Table). This is favorable
since Java-Bali is the predominant load center, accounting for 75 percent o f the installed capacity
in all of Indonesia, while Sumatra has the fastest growth in electricity demand (albeit from a
small base o f about 3 GW) in the nation. The potential for regional interconnection also puts
Sumatra's geothermal potential ina valuable position.

                  Table AI.I:GeothermalResources in Indonesia by Region and Resource Category
                                   (MW as of 2005 and InstalledCapacity as of 2007)




 Locations

 Source: Progress Report, Master Plan Study for Geothermal Power Development inthe Republic of Indonesia, West
 JapanEngineering Consultants, Inc., February 2007.




                                                     19

                Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
      INDONESIA: GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATIONDEVELOPMENTPROJECT




                                                                                Environment  I
PowerTransmissionImprovementSector        1Loan         1ADB   IOngoing I2004 IIEnergy
                                                                                Supply
InfrastructureProjectDevelopment           Loan          ADB    Ongoing  2006   Investment
Facility                                                                        Climate
INO: TangguhLNGProject                     Private       ADB    Ongoing  2005   Energy
                                           Sector                               Supply
SouthSumatra to West JavaPhase I1Gas       Private       ADB    Ongoing  2006   Energy
Pipeline Project                           Sector                               Supply
Institutionalizing the CleanDevelopment    Technical     ADB    Closed   2004   Environment
Mechanism                                  Assistance



                                                        20

                              Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
   INDONESIA: GE lTHERMALPOWER GENERATIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Promote the expansion of Installedgeothermal power capacity
economic and             resulting from the policy reforms and        outcome will be achieved toward the end o f
environmentally friendly investment transactions assistedby the       project implementation, building on
geothermal power         project                                      continuous progress o f the project
generation.                                                           components during the implementation
                                                                      period. It is especially critical to closely
                                                                      monitor the progress inpolicy development
Reduce C02emissions      Reduction inCOzemissions by offsetting       and adoption.
from the power system.   fossil fuel basedpower generation with
                         geothermal power                             Mid-termreview to determine necessary

                             IntermediateOutcomeIndicators
Component 1                Pricing mechanism to provide adequate      Yl-Y2: Lack o f Go1commitment to
Improvedinvestment         economic incentives developed              implementselectedpricing mechanism
environment for            Upstreamresource riskmitigation            would indicate weak political support to
geothermal power           mechanism developed                        accelerating geothermal power development,
projects                 0 Implementation regulations o f the         especially inpartially developed fields.
                           Geothermal Law issued                      Yl-Y2: Indecision on risk mitigation
                                                                      mechanisms would signal uncertainGo1
                                                                      commitment to developing greenfield
                                                                      geothermal resources.
                                                                      Yl-Y2: Delayedpromulgation o f the
                                                                      Implementation Regulations of the
                                                                      Geothermal Law may imply increased legal
                                                                      complexity for developing greenfield
                                                                      geothermal resources inthe wake o f
                                                                      government decentralization.
Component 2                Modelprocedures and standardized           Yl-Y3: Delays may indicate dificulties
Increased market uptake    documentation for competitive bidding o f  encountered inpolicy development and
o f geothermal power       geothermal power transactions developed    adoption (Component 1) and/or inefficient
                           Structure offers to mobilize investments   project implementation management.
                           for additional geothermal power infields
                           that are controlled by existing operators  Needto pay special attentions to sequences
                           Develop and implement a pilot              o f and the cross links betweenpolicy work
                           transaction for one power project ina new  and transactions assistance.
                           geothermal field competitively tendered
                           based on the Geothermal Law
Component 3              0 Relevant agencies for undertaking          YI-Y3: Determine effectiveness o ftraining
Enhanced government        geothermal transactions trained through    andawarenessprograms andadjust as
capacity to support        on-the-job programs as well as 5-10        needed.
sustainedsector            workshops and seminars
development              0 Awareness raising and information
                           dissemination activities about sector
                           policies andbusiness opportunities
                           conducted through promotional
                           campaigns including 5-10 stakeholder
                           dialogue seminars
                           Strategy for domestic geothermal
                           technology development formulated




                                                      21

         82
         71
         Z    d
3 0      ii   z     2


         d          d
9 0      z    z
              d     2




3 0




              e    e


       22

                                      Annex 4: Results of Project Analysis
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATIONDEVELOPMENTPROJECT


This annex provides informationon the analytical assessmentthat underpins the project andits
key components. It includes descriptions of:

       1. The economic rationale for developing geothermal power inIndonesia, andits
           economic competitiveness with coal-based power;
       2. The financial costs o fdeveloping geothermal power;
       3. The major risks associated with geothermal resource exploitation; and
       4. The challenges facing geothermal transactions inIndonesia

4.1    Economic Rationale for Developing Geothermal Power

An analysis was carried out to assess the comparative economic competitiveness of geothermal
power generation in Indonesia. A supply curve was developed from available data for 51
geothermal fields"      (with a total estimated capacity of 13,824 MW) to determine the
economically justified quantity o f geothermal power in Indonesia comparing it to coal-based
power generation, which was at the time o fproject preparationthe least-cost option for base-load
generation expansion'    '. It also incorporates conservatively estimated environmental externalities
that should be considered in determining the economically optimal level o f geothermal
development.

Methodology

The methodology consists ofthe following steps:

    1) Estimate the production cost o fcoal-fired thermal power;
    2) Estimate the production costs o f each geothermal power project, and sort these in
       ascending order o f cost to represent the supply curve o f geothermal energy;
    3) Estimate the quantity of geothermal energy whose production costs are lower than the
       production cost of coal-fired thermal power, an amount definedas                  QECON;
    4) Estimate the local environmental damage costs o f coal-fired thermal power;
    5) Estimate the quantity o f geothermal energy whose production costs are lower than the
       social cost of coal-fired thermal power (i.e. sum o f the production cost and their
       corresponding local environmental externalities), an amount defined as                 QENV;   and
    6) Estimate the quantity o f geothermal energy that would be additionally justified by the
       avoidance o f COZemissions, an amount defined as               QGLOBAL.


All costs are assumed to be economic costs, i.e. exclusive o f taxes and duties. The coal price is
based on the domestic market in Indonesia, since a large portion o f the upcoming coal-based
power plants are expected to utilize a medium-grade, non-tradable coal.

lo Master Plan Study for Geothermal Power Development inthe Republic o fIndonesia, JICA, 2007.
"  PLN carried out a cost effectiveness and a least cost study using WASP (WienAutomatic System Planning).
   Based on the assumptions used, it showed that coal is the least cost option for base-load generation expansion.


                                                        23

Figure A4.1 illustrates the definition o f each optimal quantity before and after environmental
externalities are incorporated. Also shown in this figure is the quantity        QBAu,   which represents
the quantity o f geothermal energy that would be built, and i s economic, even in the absence o f
policies to encourage geothermal energydevelopment inIndonesia.

                              Figure A4.1: Definition of QECON,QENVand QCLOBAL




                                    Installed Capacity of Geothermal (GW)



The geothermal energy database that was used i s based on a recent JICA study12 in which 73
geothermal fields have been surveyed and the data for 51 fields was deemed sufficient for
inclusion inthis analysis.

Valuation of Environmental Externality

Since emissions from geothermal power i s far less than from an equivalent amount of coal-based
power generation, these environmental impacts are quantified using conservative assumptions
and included in analyzing the economically justified amount o f geothermal development in
Indonesia.

There are several methods that are commonly usedto estimate the environmental externality cost
associatedwith coal-fired power generation:

       One such method that is commonly used is to estimate directly the cost o f damages
       caused by air pollution, including, for example, the health cost due to pollution,
       agriculture losses due to acid rain, etc;

l2  Master Plan Study for GeothermalPower Development inthe Republic o f Indonesia, JICA, 2007.



                                                    24

    0    Another frequently used method focuses on estimating the investment and operational
         costs that would be requiredto avoid the pollution that result from coal-based power; and
    0    A thirdoptionwould beto attempt to quantifythe willingness-to-pay bythose affectedby
         pollution inorder to avoid such impacts.

Each o f these methods requires extensive data, which is often not available, especially in
developing countries. Therefore, the costs associated with pollution in developing countries are
often estimated usingthe benefit transfer method. This method calls for utilizing estimates from
one country and adjusting them to be applicable inanother. The ratio o f GDP or PPP per capita
between the two countries is commonly used to adjust the environmental impact estimate from
one country to another. Since there has been very limited pollution damage cost estimates that
have been done in Indonesia during the past few years, the benefit transfer method was used to
quantify the environmental externalities in the economic evaluation o f developing geothermal
power.

The externality valuations are conducted for three major air pollutantsthat result from a typical
coal-fired thermal power plant: TSP, S02, and NOx. The value of carbon credits that would
result from trading C02 emissions reductions are monetized to estimate the global environmental
impact of developing geothermal power inIndonesia.

The results from various studies can vary significantly, and even within studies most estimates
are expressed inranges to reflect their uncertainty as well as the different valuation approaches.
In this analysis, assumptions and estimates are conservatively applied, adopting different
reference studies for TSP, S02, and NOx . The referenced studies and the estimates selected are
as follows:

    0    TSP: A report China - Environmental Cost from Pollution was prepared jointly by
         Chinese government and an international team includingthe World Bank to assess the
         costs of environmental degradation in China. The damage cost o f TSP was estimated
         based on its impacts on humanhealth. The study shows that the total health costs in2003
         amounted to 157 billion Yuan or 1.2%o f national GDP, when valued usingthe "adjusted
         humancapital" approach which quantifies forgone earnings to value the loss o f life. This
         i s equivalent to an externality cost o f 1,087 US$/ton of TSP (2006 price) in China.
    0    SO2 andNOx: The allowance spot prices o f SO2 and NOx under the U S Acid Rain and
        NOx Budget Trading Programs, which is operated by U.S. Environmental Protection
         Agency (EPA), are taken as the reference to calculate the externality cost o f these two
         types o f pollutants. The historical changes o f spot price since 2005 show that they
         fluctuate significantly over years. The 2006 average prices, about 1000$/ton for SO2 and
         1800$/ton for NOx, are selected as the reference prices for this analy~is.'~

Usingthe PPPper capita inIndonesia in2006, compared with that o f China andUS for the same
year, the externality cost o f TSP, SO2 and NOx for Indonesia is estimated using the benefit
transfer method as indicated inTable A4.1.


l3  The SO2 andNOx costs inthe US were driven down inlarge part due to the increased availability of low sulfur
    coal, which is abundant inIndonesia.


                                                     25

  I                   Table A4.1: ExternalityCost EstimationinIndonesia (2006 price)
    Country          PPPPer Capita      IPollutants Reference Price              Externality Cost I
                       in2006 ($)                    ($/ton)                         ($/ton)

   us
    Indonesia             3,950          TSP         1,087 (China)                   555.6
                         44,260          so2         1,000 (US)                       89.2
    China                 7,730          NOx         1,800 (US)                       160.6


The global environmental benefit o f developing geothermal is estimated using the value o f
carbon credits traded under the Kyoto Protocol using the Clean Development Mechanism
(CDM). In2006, developing countries suppliednearly 450 MtC02e o f primary C D M credits for
a total market value o f US$5 billion14. This amounts to an average price o f US$10.90 for
Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) with a vast number o f transactions in the range o f US$8-
14). Therefore, the present analysis conservatively applies a value o f US$lO/ton o f C02e to
value the global environmentalimpact.

Major Assumptionsfor Estimating the Costof Supply

The assumptions used for the analysis undertaken during project preparation i s based on the
discussion with PLN staff and input from international experts. It is important to note that there
has since been a steady increase in international prices o f inputs into both coal and geothermal
power development, yet the long-term trend in these prices are unclear. Therefore, this analysis
will be revised duringproject implementation so as to reflect the circumstances at the time when
policy decisions are being taken with a detailed risk assessment to ensure the robustness o f the
policy. The basic assumptions used during project preparation in order to develop the cost o f
supply curves are as follows:

For




          - Emissionremoval efficiency
                 TSP/Particulate (%)                          95%                95%
                 so2 (%)                                       0%                 0%
          -- Economic life (years)                             25                 25
             Capacity factor (%)                              75%                75%




l4
 State and Trends of the Carbon Market 2007, World Bank, May 2007


                                                   26

For geothermal plants:

    0   Transmissioncost: These plants will normally be located remotely from the transmission
        gridcompared with coal-fired thermal. Therefore, an average distance o f 50 kmfor Java-
        Bali Island and 30 km for other small islands are assumed; the transmission cost
        (normally over 150kV transmission line) i s included in the capital cost o f each
        geothermal plant.
    0   O&M cost: The station and steam field operations and maintenance costs are assumed
        as:

                                                           FixedO&M                VariableO&M
                                                            (US$/kW)                 (US$IMWh)
         Developments d O M W                                  65                        1.3
         Developments >30MW                                    52                        1.1

        Inadditionto these costs, the well replacement cost is assumed at 5 percent ofthe cost of
        the wells per year. Considering the relative cost o f wells and fluid collectioddisposal
        system which should be largely left intact, an additional 5 percent has been added to the
        annual well replacement cost to cover connection.
    0   Capacity factor: 80%
    0   Economic life: 30 years

Results

Table A4.2 presents the results          0,  the analysis     (i) MW
                                                                 66          0, geothermal capacity would be
economically justified if environmental benefits are not included. (i.e. business-as-usual); (ii)
2,442 MW o f geothermal power would be economically justified iflocal environmental benefits
(reduced TSP, SO2 andNOx emissions) are considered; and (iii)                   9,669 MW would be justified
ifbothlocalandglobalenvironmentalbenefitsareincorporated.


                   TableA4.2: Optimal Quantity of GeothermalEnergyDevelopment(MW)
                          Q(B4                    Q(Econ)            Q(En4              Q(Globa1)
   National               450                     662                2442               9669
   Java-Bali              450                     662                1842               3644
   Sumatra etc.           0                       0                  600                6025
  Note: Total installed capacity of all 51 fields is 13,824 MW, including 4,719 M W inJava-Bali grid and 9,105
  M W inother grids.




                                                           27

Figures A4.2-A4.4presents the cost supply curves for all o f Indonesia, Java-Bali grid, Sumatra
etc. grid and the national cost supply curve based on the information o f these 51geothermal
fields
    FigureA4.2: IndicativeCost ofSupply Curvefor GeothermalPowerDevelopmentinIndonesia


                 4.0   - -Cost     Supply C u m of Geothermal
                 3.5 - -Coal       (Without Env.)

                 3.0 -   --Coal    (With Local)

                 2.5 - ---Coal     (With Local+Global)

                 2.0 -   -Q(BAU)     0.5 Q(Econ) 0.7 Q(Env) 2.4 Q(Globa1) 9.7

                 1.5   1                                                  /
                 1.o                                                 I 9.7


                 0.5
                 0.0


                -1.0 1                        ,                        ,              I
                       0                      5                      10               15
                                    Installed Capacity of Geothermal(GW)


  ~~




    FigureA4.3: IndicativeCost of Supply Curvefor GeothermalPowerDevelopmentinJava-Bali


               4'0 -     -Cost     Supply CUM of Geothermal
               3.5 -     -Coal     (Without Env.)

               3.0 -     --Coal    (With Local)




              -1.0
                      ~           1                I              I              I      1

                   0             1                 2             3            4         5
                                    Installed Capacityof Geothermal(GW)




                                                       28

       FigureA4.4: IndicativeCost of Supply Curvefor GeothermalPowerDevelopmentin Sumatra



                  4.0 -     -Cost       Supply CUM of Geothermal
                  3.5 -     -Coal      (Without Env.)
                  3.0 -     --Coal(With      Local)
                  2.5 -     ---Coal    (With Local+Global)

                  2.0 -     -Q(BAU)       0 Q(Econ) 0 Q(Env) 0.6 Q(Globa1) 6

                  1.5  1
                                                                    I 6.0   /J




                 -1.0 I               ,              I              ,            I         I

                       0            2                4             6            8          10
                                       InstalledCapacity of Geothermal(GW)



The economically optimal level o f geothermal power generation capacity is dependent on the
evolution o f coal      and generation equipment prices.                Since the analysis during project
preparationwas completed, the price o f coal and generation equipment have steadily risen. On
one hand, if the price o f the medium-grade, non treadeable coal used inthe domestic market in
Indonesia, would rise then more geothermal power generation capacity would be economically
justified.  On the other hand, if the cost o f developing geothermal fields               and the cost o f
geothermal equipment would relatively increase more than the cost o f coal generation equipment
less utilization o f the resource will be econiomically justified. At present , it i s difficult to
forecast the long-term impacts on the prospects for developing geothermal resources. However,
the analysis and recent trends lead to the following conclusions: (a) the development o f a
significant part o f the geothermal resources would remain economically justified, especially if
environmental benefits are taken into account, and (b) the voltility o f commodity prices will
impact the relative competitiveness o f geothermal power requiring more detailed analyses and
risk assessmentwhen developing the pricinghcentivemechanism insub-component C1.1.

4.2     Financial Cost of DevelopingGeothermal Power

Indonesia will need to address a number o f key bamers, ifthey are to develop geothermal power
to the level that i s economically justified as indicated in the previous section (Annex 4, Section
4.1). These barriers can make it unattractive for many developers to undertake the exploitation
o f geothermal resources for power generation. Some o f these barriers could include the financial
upfront cost o f developing geothermal resources, their inability to obtain a return on their
investments commensurate with the perceived "value" o f the commodity and the risks they


                                                      29

expect to take, the absence o f a predictable pricing policy, and the uncertainty o f power off-take
byPLN.

The following section presents the main assumptions and results from a preliminary analysis to
estimate the financial cost o f developing different geothermal fields in Indonesia.           These costs
are then compared with generating power from coal-fired power plants, which by most
indications remains the primarychoice for upcoming power capacity expansion. Finally, there is
an estimate o f     what may be the incremental financial costs associated with developing
geothermal power up to the level stipulated inthe Geothermal Blueprint target.

These are preliminary results based on factors that existed during project preparation.               As
previously indicated, there has been a steady increase in global prices that will affect the cost o f
developing both geothermal and coal-based resources. Depending on the net impact o f these
price changes over the longer term, the magnitude o f the incremental costs associated with
some geothermal fields are likely to change.

The analysis is based on technical data gathered for 51 geothermal fields Indonesiafrom a study
undertaken by JICA" for the MEMR. The data for estimating the cost o f coal are based on
information obtained from PLN's Systems Planning group and other sources. The analysis was
conducted separately for each island with geothermal resources since Indonesia's power grid i s
not interconnected between them (except for Java and Bali). It also focuses predominantly on
the Java-Bali and Sumatra grids, since these islands are the largest load centers with about 90%
o f the installed capacity, and also have the largest concentration o f geothermal resources with
nearly 85% o f the total inthe country. Given the significant and rapidly growing power demand
inthese islands, there exists the possibilityofsubstantial expansion ofbothgeothermal aswell as
coal based generation capacity.        Several other islands such as Sulawesi, Maluku and Nusa
Tengara also have geothermal resources, but given their relatively small load many generation
options they face are mutually exclusive.          A financial cost comparison between available
generation options for each o f these islands i s also included.

Key Assumptions

The following are the key assumptions madeinestimating the financial costs:

Capital Costs

Coal-Fired Power Plants: PLN's System's PlanningReport (RUPTL) indicates that they planto
construct coal-fired power plants of varying sizes throughout the country.                Large units are
plannedfor the Java-Bali gridinmultiples o f 300 MW units. Basedon comparative information
these plants are estimated to cost US$1040/kW including an allowance for flue gas
desulphurisation plant (FGD) and some particulate control equipment. This investment cost has
been scaled to reflect the capital costs o f the smaller coal-fired power plantsplannedinthe outer
islands, which in Sumatra is 100 MW on average and range from 65MW to 7 MW in other
islands.
'*  Master Plan Study for Geothermal Power Development inthe Republic of Indonesia, JICA, 2007.



                                                   30

Geothermal Power Development: The cost o f developing geothermal fields were assessedusing
technical parameters from a study undertaken by JICA for the MEMR, where 51 o f the 73 sites
that were evaluated had sufficient information to be considered. The capital costs associated
with developing the power plant is relatively consistent and is estimated to be $1,2OO/kW inline
with experience in Indonesia and internationally. However, the cost o f developing the upstream
steam fields is site specific and can vary significantly. The discrepancies are mostly driven by
the costs associatedwith drilling andFluidCollection andDisposal System (FCDS).

The cost o f drilling is a function o f the number o f wells as well as their required depth. Drilling
costs have been recently increasing internationally because o f rising steel prices and increasing
competition for drilling rigs from the oil and gas sector. Therefore, it is estimated that the cost o f
drilling each well is US$1.4 millionkm, although this number could rise further based on
international trends. The number o f wells that are required to realize the potential o f a given
field is also a substantial driver of costs and also reflects the uncertainty associated with
developing geothermal fields. Prior to drilling, it is difficult to predict the number o f wells that
may be successful inproducing steam and their respective capacities. Such risks would be less
prevalent in geothermal fields that are already partially developed where the conditions o f the
site are more certain. The estimated cost o f developing greenfield geothermal sites can vary
significantly, however, since more wells would need to be estimated to be drilled in order to
account for the associated risks.

FCDS costs are also site specific as it would not apply to dry steam fields that will not require
the disposal o fwaste water. For those that will require FCDS, the following estimates have been
        ..
made andincorporatedinto the cost o f developing the steam fields:

           Preliminary andcivil costs not associated with waste water = $0.14 million/MW
           Preliminary and civil costs associated with waste water (costs will not apply to dry
           steam fields) = $0.07 million/MW
        .  Two phase pipe, separators, steam pipe, blow down costs = $0.14 million/MW
           Waste water line = $3.0 million/lOOOt/h ofwater
           Electrical and Control & Instrumentation = $0.014 million/MW

Transmission Costs:      While coal-based power plants are assumed to be located in relative
proximity to the existing power grid, geothermal plants may be located remotely from major
centres and from the transmission grid. Since exact distances from the grid are not available,
specific contingency funds have been allowed as follows. It i s assumed that on major islands (i.e.
Java and Sumatra) the transmission grid will be located between 50 and 100 km o f the
transmission line, and an allowance has been made for 75 km o f transmission line at
US$200,000/km. For small islands where the distance from the grid would be less, an allowance
of 30 km o f transmission line at US$lOO,OOO/km. The allowance for transmission was omitted
only for fields where there are known transmission lines either through existing developments or
throughplannedtransmission routes.




                                                31

Operational Costs

Fuel Costs: The cost o f fuel i s a key operational factor, particularly for coal fired power plants.
Geothermal power plants essentially incur their fuel costs upfront when developing the upstream
steam fields, and face lower costs that are steady over time by drillingmake-up wells to maintain
the capacity of the site. Alternatively, the coal-based power plants will need to acquire the fuel
over time andthe costs will vary according to fluctuations inthe market.

PLN had indicated that they will gain access to a relatively low calorie (4,300-4,800 kcal/kg)
coal sourced from Kalimantan and Sumatra that i s intended for domestic use. Given that this
coal is unlikely to be traded internationally, a domestic price o f US$40/ton or US$2.0/GJ i s used
as was prevalent during project preparation. During project implementation, these preliminary
numbers would be further detailed and revised to reflect any recent changes to the price o f coal
that i s expected to continue over the long-term.

As previously mentioned, geothermal fields will also incur ongoing costs associated with well
replacement or workovers. Typical wells may have operational lives o f 20 years so replacement
is assumed at 5 percent o f the cost o f the wells per year. In addition, there will be costs
associated with the connection o f these wells to a slightly modified system. Considering the
relative costs o f wells and FCDS that would remain intact, an additional 5 percent has been
added to the annual well replacement cost to cover connection.

Operations and Maintenance: The operational and maintenance costs for coal generation are
based on a comparative average both internationally and in Indonesia. The fixed O&M costs are
estimated at US$33.3/kW andthe variable O&M costs are US$3.6/MWh.

The O&M costs associated with geothermal operations are also based on an international
comparative estimate, and they vary based on the scale of the project. The fixed O&M costs for
developments over 30MW will be US$52/kW while the variable costs will be US$l.l/MWh.
For smaller operations under 30MW, the fixed O&M is estimated to be US$65/kW with the
variable O&M cost at US$1.3/MWh.

The Costof Capital

The cost o f developing both coal-based and geothermal power are calculated using a cost o f
capital for each. A weighted average cost o f capital (WACC) that would be faced inIndonesiaby
an Independent Power Producer (IPP) is estimated for this purpose assuming a debtlequity
arrangement o f 70/30 percent. The analysis indicates that a typical IPP requires a return on
equity o f about 15% calculated using the widely utilized capital asset pricing model (CAPM)16.
With a typical cost of financing construction projects inIndonesia at about lo%, the WACC for
a standard IPP is estimated to be 12%. Discussions with several coal-based IPPs have further
confirmed this estimate. Geothermal developers, on the other hand, will face additional non-
diversifiable risks that would increase their cost o f capital.      One factor is the uncertainty


l6 CAPM =rrree+PasserMRP8.5%+0.95*6.5%=14.675%.
                               +


                                                 32

regarding the upstream development cost associated with drilling wells, but this i s already
accounted for inthe upfront investment estimate. The other would be the premium that would be
placed given the greater up-front investment cost requirements o f a geothermal development that
would make investors more susceptible to contractual disputes and payment risks. Various
reports and discussions with investors indicate that the cost o f capital for geothermal IPPs can
reach 14-16 percent. Based on this information, a 16% WACC i s used for all geothermal
developments. This constitutes a conservative approach, giventhat slightly lower WACC may be
realistic at brownfield sites given their relatively lower financing risks.

Comparisonof Geothermaland CoalCosts

The costs o f the 51 geothermal fields were calculated based on the field information from the
JICA study along with the assumptions and analysis mentioned previously. These results were
compared with the estimated cost o f coal-based power in each power grid in Indonesia.
Furthermore, the cost at which PLN can purchase power and financially break-even across its
system at the time o f project preparation is also indicated. A power purchase cost that i s more
thanU S cents 4.95 /kWh is likely to leadto further financial losses byPLNregardless ofpower
source given their current energy mix andretail electricity tariff levels.

TheJava-Bali Grid

The graph illustrates each geothermal field inJava-Bali and their estimated total potential power
generation capacity. The cost of each field is also indicated by estimating levelized financial
kWhcosts. These costs are based on the estimated potential power generation capacity o f each
field and the expected total financial costs o f developing them. Each field is numbered and
correspondents to a list of geothermal fields in the legend o f each graph. Each geothermal
brownfield (1,3,4,10,14)    that is already partially developed has an estimated kWh price since
they are proven fields where resources are confirmed whereby the cost o f development could be
predicted with relatively higher level o f certainty.             The cost o f Greenfield sites
(9,18,15,23,34,36,40,38,39,46,48)     are estimated as a range, since there is less predictability
regardingtheir development costs untilthe sites undergo further exploration.

The estimated geothermal costs are compared with two possible alternate prices. The first,
referred to as the PLN benchmark price, i s the level at which PLN can purchase power without
incurring additional financial losses given the current electricity tariff levels. This breakeven
price for PLN i s 4.95 U S centskWh across their system. The second is an estimated cost of
coal-based power calculated based on parameters available during project preparation as
previously discussed and i s specific to each grid. InJava-Bali, this price o f coal-based power i s
estimated to be 5.17 U S cents/kWh.




                                                  33

              2.00 1

              0.00
                   0          1000           2000          3000         4000         5000
                                                     Mw




The cost associated with developing geothermal power is clearly different between brownfield
developments and greenfield sites.      The lower costs associated with fields that are already
partially developed where there i s greater certainty regarding geothermal prospects is reflected in
the fact that all brownfield costs are initially estimated to fall below 6.68 U S centskWh in the
Java-Bali grid. The geothermal field that would be cheapest to expand i s Kamojang (1) at 5.75
U S centskWh. Wayang Windu (14) is estimated to be the costliest field among brownfield
developments at a cost o f 6.68 US centskWh. Gunung Patuha (lo), which is controlled by the
state-owned enterprise GeoDipa, i s the least cost undeveloped geothermal site in Java at an
estimated cost o f between 6.27 and 6.75 U S centskWh. The expected costs o f subsequent
greenfieldprojects inJava are progressivelyhigherwith fields such as Citaman - G.Karang(46)
and Tankubanperahu (48) can reach above 10 U S centskWh. It is important to note that the


                                                 34

actual costs o f these greenfield developments may be lower once the fields explored and
resources further confirmed.

A sensitivity analysis was carried out to reflect possible fluctuations inthe price o f coal, and its
impact on price incentives that developers would seek to invest invarious geothermal fields. In
Java-Bali, a 10% increase in commodity price o f coal would not be sufficient to make additional
geothermal development attractive on a financial basis over coal-based power. However, an
increase o f 20% would be sufficient to make it financially attractive to further develop the
Kamojang field (1) to its estimated total capacity o f 262 MW. O f course, any decrease in the
commodity price o f coal would further increase the financial gap between geothermal and coal
basedpower.

TheSumatraGrid

                   Figure A4.6: Financial Cost of Developing Geothermal in Sumatra
          12.00



          10.00



          8.00



          6.00



          4.00



          2.00 -




               0       1000     2000      3000      4000      5000      6000     7000    8000
                                                     MW




                                                  35

Power demand in Indonesia is forecast to increase at a rate o f 10.7% per annum in areas outside
o f Java-Bali. The island o f Sumatra i s the largest load center next to the Java-Bali grid, and has
the fastest forecasted demand growth. Nevertheless, its present power generation capacity o f
4,000 MW is substantially smaller than the nearly 20,000 MW present on the Java-Bali grid. But
Sumatra also has the largest concentration o f geothermal resources in Indonesia based on the
JICA analyzed fields, with potential for over 7,800 MW.           Still PLN's expansion plans rely
predominantly on coal based power, with a total expansion o f 3,050 MW planned by 2015.
Given that the proposed coal-fired plants in Sumatra are on average 100 MW and smaller than
those proposed for the Java-Bali grid, they are also less efficient. As a result, the comparative
price of coal inSumatra i s estimated higher at 6.17 U S centskWh.

The geothermal costs in Sumatra, despite its potential, are also expected to be relatively higher
than many o f the fields in Java. This is largely due to the fact that there has been limited
development o f geothermal fields to date, with future development potential concentrated mostly
ingreenfield sites where resources are yet to be confirmed. Therefore, the geothermal fields in
Sumatra are likely to encompass risks that translate into higher expected costs similar to
undeveloped sites elsewhere. Consequently, the geothermal costs for most fields in Sumatra are
evaluated as a rangeto reflect this uncertainty inpotentialcosts.

Under the assumptions made in this preliminary analysis, a geothermal field such as Sungai
Penuh (2), at an estimated cost o f 6.04 U S centskWh could be developed as a least-cost option
since it is likely to be cheaper than the estimated price o fnew coal-based generation.

The next four lowest cost fields (6,7,8,13) or nearly 3,000 MW intotal potential, could require
as much as 6.93 U S centskWh in order to sustain its' investments depending on the success o f
upstream exploration. Subsequent fields progressively increase in their estimated development
costs ranging from a lower bound o f 6.96 U S centskWh to as much as 8 U S centskWh. A
number o f final remaining fields (41,29,43,31) will incur even higher costs to develop estimated
to reach inexcess o f 10 U S centskWh insome cases.

InSumatra, a 10% increase inthe price ofcoal couldmake fields with over 500 MW ofcapacity
attractive on a financial basis. Ifthe price o f coal increased by 20% to the present estimate, then
upwards o f 700 MW o f geothermal may become financially attractive to developers. It i s
important to note that there may be other non-financial barriers that would also need to be
addressed inorder to successfully attract investors to develop these fields.

Other Islands

Several other islands such as Sulawesi, Maluku and Nusa Tengara also have the option of
exploiting their geothermal resources for power generation. However, the load inthese islands i s
relatively small, and therefore, the options for power generation from different resources are
likely to be mutually exclusive. Inmany o f these islands, geothermal can be an attractive option
since the cost o f operating relatively small coal-fired power plants o f less than 25MW capacity
was estimated to cost upwards o f 7.5 U S centskWh at the time o f project preparation. In such
cases, there would not be an incremental cost o f utilizing geothennal over coal, but a cost



                                                  36

savings. However, development o f small geothermal fields will likely face additional barriers
that would need to be addressed on order to successfully exploit these resources.


  Figure A4.7: Financial Cost of Geothermal in Other Islands                        Preliminary Estimate of Potential
                                                                                    Incremental Cost of Achieving

                        ElectricitycostNusaTenggara                                 Go1 Geothermal Development
                                                                                    Target
     18 00

     16 00

     14 00                                                                          Indonesia presently has over 950

   !g;
     1200                                                                           MW        o f    geothermal    power
     1000                                                      .High  Estimate      generation capacity under operation.
   %
      800                                                      OCoal Estimate
   3                                                                                In order to reach the Go1 target of
      6 00                                                     OPLN BrakeLen

      4 00                                                                          increasing this capacity to 6,000
      2 00                                                                          MW by 2020, an expansion o f over
      0 00                                                                          5,000 additional MW is needed.
                                                                                    Given preliminary costs estimated
                                                                                    during       project      preparation,
                                                                                    additional funding is likely needed
                                                                                    to cover the incremental financial
                           ElectricityCostSulawesi                                  costs o f this expansion.     As the
                                                                                    geothermal       power     generation
                                                                                    capacity is progressively increase, it
                                                                                    i s likely that the incremental costs
                                                                                    would also rise due to the additional
                                                                                    capacity and also because they
                                                                                    would begin to         develop  more
                                                                                    expensive    fields.  The following
                                                                                    table provides an indication o f
                                                                                    potential hnd requirements to cover
                                                                                    these additional costs. The initial
            North   North    Nwth     Central Gomntalo Central
           Sulmesi Sulawesi Sulawesi Sulawesi         Sulawesi                      expansion that is likely to be in the
                                                                                    relatively cheaper brownfields sites,
                                                                                    the    additional   financial burden
                           ElectricityCost Maluku                             I     would be less.      For example, the
                                                                                 ~




     1600 T                                                                         next 500 MW - 1000 MW may
                                                                                    require an estimate $87       -   128
                                                                                    million in additional funds each

                                                              . - --                year.    Progressively, development
                                                               ~ L o Estimate
                                                                     u
                                                                rlign Estmate      will expand into fields that are more
                                                               o b iEstmale         expensive, and the additional cost o f
                                                              ~-
                                                               oPLN Breafimn        developing 5,000       MW o f new
                                                                                    geothermal capacity could reach in
                                                                                    excess o f $700 million.       It is
                                                                                    important to note, however, that
                   Tulehu                     Jailoio                         !    with further exploration and risk
                                                                                   mitigation, the cost o f Greenfield



                                                                 37

sites may be less than the preliminary estimates made at project preparation. It is also important
to note that these findings are preliminary, and would be further detailed and revised to reflect
more recent trends inprices, duringproject implementation.


    Table A4.8: PreliminaryAssessmentof IncrementalFinancialCost of DevelopingAdditionalGeothermal
                                              Capacity

  AdditionalGeothermalCapacity
  (Mw)
  estimated additional funding
  requirements (US$ millionper year)



4.3      Major RisksAssociated with GeothermalDevelopment

There are risks associated with geothermal development that are unique, which can deter
investments in the sector or require significant premiums to cover them. These undiversifiable
risks are mostly associated with the technological risks and uncertainty surrounding the cost of
developing the upstream steam fields.       While the technology for generating power may be
relatively standard, there can be considerable uncertainty during the initial stages o f exploration
before the upstream steam field potential is proven. Therefore, investors would be particularly
apprehensive about undertaking the upfront investments in developing geothermal fields when
the uncertainty surrounding its potential would be at a maximum. Consequently, they would
want these risks to be either mitigated or adequately compensated, if they are to channel
resources towards geothermal development.

There are two key risks that predominate geothermal development: i)the technical risks that
makes it difficult to estimate the resource capacity o f a geothermal field and the costs associated
with its development, and ii)the high upfront costs that makes geothermal development
financing more risky. These risks are described ingreater detail below:

Resource CapacityRisks

The precise power generation potential o f a geothermal site and the costs associated with
exploiting the resource towards this end would only become clearer with the progressive
development o f the upstream steam field. A number o f key technical parameters determine the
power potential for a given geothermal field, which in turn drive the development costs and the
price o f electricity produced. There is significant scope for the initial assessment o f many o f
these parameters to vary substantially, with the estimates becoming more predictable as the field
i s progressively developed.

The power generation potential of a geothermal field i s a function o f the number o f wells that are
drilled and the production capacity o f each. InIndonesia, most o f the geothermal wells that are
in operation produce on average between 4-7 MW, whereby a 55 MW geothermal power plant
may require anywhere from 8-12 wells including those used to re-inject condensed steam to
replenish the underground reservoirs.       Once these fields are drilled, however, the actual



                                                38

production capacity o f each well may vary even substantially as indicated by a single well inthe
Sarulla field in Sumatra that is estimated to produce 50 MW o f power. Some wells can even be
fully unsuccessful. The JICA analysis estimates that the success rate of drillingis between 70-80
percent, with the probability higher for brownfields where the field conditions are better know.
The other key factor is the depth to which wells need to be drilled to achieve success. Depending
on the field, the JICA study estimates that drilling depths could be between 500 - 1500meters to
reach the geothermal reservoirs.

The technical risks associated with the resource capacity will all impact the potential cost o f
developing the upstream geothermal site. As the number o f required wells and the depth to
which they must be drilledincreases, so will the cost o f developing the field. Presently the cost
o f drilling has risen to around US$4 million per well due to a rise in commodity prices such as
steal. Inaddition, the sector is also experiencing a shortage o f drilling rigs as other sectors such
as oil and gas, which are also competing for the same equipment since they are also expandingto
meet global demand. Therefore, there is significant variability investorswould face developing a
geothermal field that they would not face with other power generation options.

FinancingRisk

Geothermal projects involve greater up-front commitment o f capital compared to coal projects.
This is largelydue to the costs associated with the upstream development o f steam fields. Unlike
coal supplies that are purchased over its operations, the upstream development o f a steam field
amounts to purchasing the lifetime of fuel upfront. Therefore, comparatively higher financing is
needed for undertaking geothermal developments. The greater outlay o f funds upfront makes
geothermal projects more vulnerable to contractual and payment risks. Consequently, investors
will require a greater return on their investments to off-set the financing risks that are uniquely
related to geothermal development. This is reflected by the difference between the estimated
cost o f capital geothermal and coal power projects. Independent power producers o f coal-fired
power plants are found to settle for an overall return o f 12 percent on their investment.
Geothermal developers, on the other hand, are will require between 14-16 percent based on the
present analysis as well as investor input. It i s likely that the lower end o f this range reflects
brownfield projects that are likely to cost less. Greenfield investors will have to secure more
funding in anticipation o f the higher expected development costs, whereby, the financing costs
would also be at the higherend o fthe range.

ConfirmingUpstreamResources

The uncertainty surrounding the exploration o f geothermal steam fields can only be reduced
through project development. The following graph illustrates the common stages o f developing
a typical geothermal field. At each successive stage, there is greater understanding of the field
characteristics and enhanced certainty o f the field potential as well as the additional costs
required to fully develop them. Infact, geothermal fields are usually developed progressively in
a modular format largely for this reason. The breakthrough in confirming resources usually
occurs after initial drilling takes place in a geothermal field. This is also one of the costlier
phases in the development process, during which the developer is undertaking investments
without knowing the potential for recoveringthese cost from exploiting the resources inthe field.



                                                 39

Consequently, many investors would be deterred by such uncertainty or find it difficult to find
financiers who would be willing lend money considering such risks. Therefore, both investors
andlenders are likelyto look for ways onwhichthey could either mitigate or share these risks.

                     FigureA4.9: Risk, CumulativeCost and Project Cyclefor Geothermal


                                       1

                                       I




Upstream Risk Mitigation

Indonesia i s likely to attract more investments into the greenfield geothermal developments, if
there were opportunities for developers and financiers to hedge against these risks. They are no
different than those faced inmany other geothermal resource endowed countries. Many o f them
often employ varying risk mitigation schemes to attract investors and enhance prospects for
developing geothermal. The following illustrate a few o f the risk sharing arrangements utilized
internationallyto catalyze investments into geothermal development:

Government sponsored exploration: In a number o f countries, the governments have borne the
upstream risk o f developing geothermal fields by undertaking exploration activities. In the
Philippines, the national oil company (PNOC) took on the responsibility o f resource
development and exploration, after which, the power generation was offered to private investors
through a build-own-transfer (BOT) scheme. The Government also ensured that there was an o f f
take arrangement with the National Power Company O C ) . With implementing such a support
scheme, Philippines developed nearly 700 MW o f power generation capacity. The government
in New Zealand also addressed the issue of upstream risk in the geothermal sector by
undertakingthe exploration o f fields themselves. Once the fields were proven, the government
would then offer them to private developers for power generation. The electricity generated
from these projects would be sold to the power market inNew Zealand.




                                                40

Exploration risk sharing:       In the United States, the world's largest geothermal producing
country, the government has provided a guarantee for part o f the loan for upstream exploration.
The aim was to catalyze private development through the partial guarantee o f loan repayments.

Partial risk guarantee: In Eastern Europe, the GeoFund, was established to provide geological
risk cover for geothermal development projects. The fund, which is able to pool risks, provides
equity fundingto lower the risk to lenders. It also provides insurance to cover the risk o f drilling
unsuccessful wells. The Argeo Fund in the African Rift Valley also aims to pool funds to
provide partial guarantees to cover unsuccessful drilling at boththe early a well as the advanced
stages. These funds expect to be sustainable over time as they revolve the credit they offer by
charging a premiumfor their services.

During the 1990's when Indonesia began to expand its geothermal power capacity, the Go1
essentially provided sufficient incentives to developers by offering a relatively high price o f
between 7-8.5 U S cents/kWh for geothermal power. This highprice also served to compensate
developers for the risks they were undertaking with upstream exploration o f geothermal fields.
Usingprice supports to mitigate risks, however, may not be an ideally efficient mechanism. The
Go1 recognizes that some form o f risk sharing arrangement will be vital especially to make
"greenfield" projects attractive for investors. Therefore, they intend to evaluate various risk
mitigation methods utilized internationally, and then design one that would be suitable for
application inIndonesia.

4.4    ChallengesFacingGeothermalTransactionsinIndonesia

The Go1 has tasked the Ministry o f Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) to expand
Indonesia's portfolio o f geothermal power generation, by developing new fields, and
encouraging existing fields to produce more electricity. There is substantial potential in fields
that have already been allocated to private or public developers that are either partially developed
"brownfield"    sites or remain unexploited "quasi-greenfields".                      The partially developed
"brownfields", where the cost o f expansion is expected to be lower due to enhanced knowledge
of field conditions and greater certainty o f the resource, are likely to present the best option for
immediate expansion o f geothermal power generation inIndonesia. These fields have seen little
development since the Asian Financial Crisis, largely due to pricing as well as other barriers, and
the MEMR lans to address these barriers through its reform program to make their expansion
"bankable"' Pto   developers. The "quasi greenfields" present a unique challenge. The fact that
they have not been developed at would imply some critical flaw either in the project or in the
investor. The perceived cost o f development i s highdue to anticipated risks associated with such
unexplored fields, but MEMR hopes to catalyze investments in these fields as well through the
reforms proposed through this project.

Going forward, the Go1 plans to use private investment to mobilize financing for geothermal
power generation. The Geothermal Law (2003) stipulates that geothermal fields must be
competitively tendered in the fbture by the Government to qualified developers.                               The
responsibility for conducting such transactions within the government rests with the MEMR, but
they have limited capacity and resources available to them for such an undertaking. These

"  Having financial and commercial viability sufficient to attract financing sufficient for its requirements.


                                                       41

"greenfield"      sites, where geothermal potential has been identified yet no exploration or
development has taken place andrights to develop them are yet to be awardedto investors, make
upthe vast majority o ffields that will be developedinyears to come.

The proposed project will assist MEMR to attract "bankable" offers from existing as well as
potential developers through credible and transparent transactions.                    These transactions are
expected to immediately catalyze investments in the existing "brownfield sites" while also
initiating the longer term development o f "greenfield" sites.                   This section describes the
challenges facing the development o f these various geothermal sites and the proposed actions to
address them andhow the project will support these measures.

Background

The total potential in "brownfield" sites under the control o f existing developers as targeted in
the Go1 Geothermal Blueprint Go1 is about 4,500MW"                       although only 970MW has been
exploited and i s presently producing power. Although significant resource potential resides in
fields that are publicly controlled, a majority of power generation is from private geothermal
fields. These independent power producers (IPP) operate underjoint-operating contracts (JOC)
with Pertaminalg. Pertamina is also the largest public sector geothermal developer, while
GeoDipa has substantial potential in the fields they control but very little power is being
currently produced from them. Many o f these developers have been looking to expand fields
under their control to utilize the unexploited potential, which i s significant. However, they have
faced many difficulties in raising the necessary financing, and indications suggest that it i s
largely due to insufficientprices and the lack o f a "bankable" power purchase agreement (PPA).



                                 Table A4.10: Privately operated brownfield sites
  No     Project                Developer               Contracted or         Installed     Location
                                                        Allocated Amount
  1.     Darajat                Chevron                 330MW                 260MW         West Java
  2.     Salak                  Chevron                 495MW                 377MW         West Java
  3.     Wayang Windu           Star Energy/MNL         400MW                 1lOMW         West Java
                        TOTAL                           1,225MW               747MW
  Source: Indonesia Geothermal Association (2004), and Ministry o fEnergy and Mineral ResourcesIndonesia
  (2007)




    This total is based on the Geothermal Blueprint, although subsequent assessment in the JICA study indicates
    that the true potential in these fields may be greater. Therefore, the potential indicated in the tables in this
    section total 5,169 MW, since they are based on the more recent JICA assessment.
l9  See page 18 for further discussion o f the system o f procurement o f geothermal investment before the
    Geothermal Law (2003). Before the law, Pertamina was the regulator for the geothermal sector.


                                                        42

                              Table A4.11: Publicly operated brownfield sites
  No    Project              Developer                Contracted or      Installed    Location
                                                     Allocated Amount
  1.    Kamojang             Pertamina               230MW               140MW        West Java
  2.    Dieng                Geodipa                 400MW               60MW          Central Java
  3.    Lahendong            Pertamina               40MW                20MW         N.Sulawesi
  4.    Sibayak              Pertamina                120MW              2MW          N.Sumatra
                     TOTAL                           790MW               222MW
  Source: IndonesiaGeothermal Association (2004), andMinistryof Energy and Mineral ResourcesIndonesia
  (2007)




  Source: John Whebble and Associates (2007), IndonesiaGeothermal Association (2004), andMinistry of Energy
  and Mineral Resources Indonesia (2007)



The quasi-greenfield sites pose a particular challenge.           They are fields already allocated to
developers, but from a technical point o f view, they would be similar to any unexploited
greenfield project.      Therefore, it will be important for Go1 to create adequate incentives
commensurate with these risks inorder to mobilize investments to develop these fields under the
present contracts or terminate them so that they can be re-bid to other qualified investors. Some
o f these fields, however, have undergone exploration drilling, which may alter their cost-profile
and present a more attractive option for quicker exploitation. It is also important to note that
much o f these "quasi-greenfields" were previously under private control, but were subsequently
transferred to public ownership as a result of arbitration or cancellation o f their contracts after
the Asian Financial Crisis. Therefore, some o f these fields are likely to face additional legal and
financial obstacles to developing their resources. The failure to exploit these quasi-greenfield
projects also raises questions about other more critical constraints o f the project or shortcomings
o f the investor. Further due diligence will be required to identify all relevant constraints before
finalizing the design o fthe process for expanding brownfield and quasi-greenfield projects.




                                                    43

                                                                                         Reserves Confirmed




  Source: JohnWhebble and Associates (2007), Indonesia Geothermal Association (2004), and Ministryof Energy and
 Mineral Resources Indonesia (2007)

  * TABLE   A4.6 andA4.7: These are sites with complete feasibility studies, where several well drilling and testing
 have given sufficient outcome to c o n f i i commercially viable development o f some specific MW, which i s also
 called as proven reserves, (JICA Masterplan Study, 2007).


Inparallel with resolving existing constraints on brownfield andquasi-greenfieldprojects, the
MEMRintendsto commence procurement o fthe Greenfield projects, to tap into about 27GW o f
suppressed geothermal power generation capacity in Indonesia.                       The process for preparing
greenfield transactions, in particular the first few, will take time and a disproportionate amount
o f resources until a standardized process can be finalized and implemented. For this reason, the
MEMRhas requested that greenfieldproject development form an important part ofthis project.
Presently, there are 253 sites identified throughout the archipelago, with about 53 fields having
undergone various geological surveys to estimate prospects. Based on the Geothermal Law,
those fields that are not yet awarded to any developer are under the purview o f the MEMR, and
will need to be awarded to developers through competitive tender.                         The MEMR is now
evaluating these fields in order to sequence them to begin preparation o f the initial batch for
tenders. Since MEMR has limited prior experience conducting such transactions, the initial
undertakings will serve as a key measure in building market confidence, which is likely to
impact the success o f geothermal development for some time to come. Therefore, it is essential
that these initial transactions are well developed, seen by investors to be "bankable", and
tendered ina transparent manner.

ChallengesFacingthe Implementationof SuccessfulTransactions

A number o f challenges presently constrain the expansion of geothermal power generation
through "brownfield" and "greenfield" projects. This project will help identify, analyze and
resolve such constraints, including:

Pricing: The pricing mechanism must bridge the incremental cost associated with geothermal
power. Many existing producersundertook their investments on the basis o f generous terms that



                                                         44

were offered prior to the Asian Economic Crisis. With a favorable exchange rate at the time,
geothermal developers were offered electricity sales prices that were fixed inU S dollars, with a
typical range o f 7-8.5 U S centskWh. Subsequently, these agreements were re-negotiated to
levels that developers claim may be suitable to carry on existing operations, but insufficient to
justify further expansion. With the limited data available to GoI, it has been challenging to
develop appropriate incentive mechanisms to catalyze further investments in these fields.
Clearly, the expansion o f "Greenfield" projects will suffer from similar pricing incentive
requirements, with higher associated upstream development risks. Therefore, this project will
propose mechanisms to address incremental costs appropriate for the different types o f
transaction to be undertakenbythe MEMR.

Consistency with thepower development plans: There are indications that it can take substantial
time for geothermal developers and PLNto reach agreement on terms o f their arrangements and
conclude power purchase agreements. Inaddition to delaying development o f geothermal fields,
it also undermines PLN's ability to reliably include these projects in their overall expansion
plans. A few recent PPA discussions have lasted anywhere from 2-3 years before they were
concluded. Although pricing remains a key issue, various other factors, such as associated
investments by PLN, also contribute to these delays. Equally, investors' confidence will depend
on the inclusion o f a "bankable" PPA with PLNas a part o fthe transaction. The project includes
the agreement with PLNo f standardPPAterms andprocurement plans (for green andbrownfield
projects) to stream-line the process, accelerate project development and protect the MEMR and
PLN's interests.

Investor confidence in the geothermal sector: Private developers and financial markets have
beenreluctant to investat a significant level inthe geothermal sector inIndonesia due to years o f
inaction and the negative experiences following the Asian Financial Crisis. The present set o f
reforms presents Go1with a sound opportunity to build investor confidence inthe sector. It will
be crucially important to adequately prepare and properly conduct these initial transactions so
that the credibility o fthe sector i s progressively enhanced.

Transaction experience at MEMR: There is limited transaction experience within the MEMR
Geothermal Department as it was only recently established. Transactionprocessing is also a new
responsibility for the MEMR, which has relied on state-owned enterprises to engage investors in
the past. Therefore, the proposed project will play a critical role in augmenting their capacity to
undertake transactions as well as to strengthen their dialog with PLN, which remains a key
stakeholder as the dominant power purchaser inIndonesia.

AdditionalChallengesUniqueto "Brownfield" Sites

Addressina leaacv issues in JOCs: In addition to the high prices that were offered to private
developers during the 199O's, they were attracted with other incentives to invest in geothermal.
This included fiscal incentives in the form o f reduced corporate taxes and refunds on import
duties as well as the value added tax. It also includes other terms that were previously agreed,
which they may want to consider changing or replacing altogether given the present conditions in
the sector as well as the country. The Ministry o f Finance has indicated that many o f these
concessions are inconsistent with today's fiscal policy o f the government, which has created a



                                                   45

point o f contention with developers. It will be important for MEMR to ensure that any offer
made to catalyze the expansion o f "brownfield" sites takes into consideration these prior
commitments, and any offer made is legally unambiguous, and fair to the developers and the
government.

5.4     Additional challengesfacing "Greenfield" transactions

Standardized procedures and documentation: The Geothermal Law requires that all future
awards o f geothermal sites be made through public procurement on a concession basis. At
present, there is no clear procedure or process for undertaking a geothermal transaction through a
competitive tender. Nor is there standard documentation or a power purchase agreement (PPA)
agreed with P L N that could be offered in a transaction. Previously, the Go1reached negotiated
agreements with developers rather thanthrough a competitive tender process.

Project selection criteria: Currently, the Geothermal Department at MEMR uses criteria that
only focus on the geothermal field development for selecting priority projects. However, given
that geothermal resource development is intricately linked to power generation, it will be
important to incorporate additional criteria when determining the viability o fprojects before they
are tendered. Such criteria would also likely include environmental and social concerns that
could raise investor concerns and prevent Go1from successfully concluding a transaction.

Legal andpolicv ambipitv: Despite the Geothermal Law being enacted in2003, a robust set o f
implementing rules and regulations are yet to be issued. Although the Law stipulates that the
government competitively tender future geothermal projects, it remains ambiguous as to the
separation o f roles between central and sub-national governments. Developers have informally
raised concern regarding an uncoordinated effort between central and local governments that
could enhance uncertainty inthe sector andundermine investor confidence.

Integration of geothermal development and power generation:            The upstream geothermal
resource development and the downstream power generation are legally separated in Indonesia.
Therefore, a geothermal site that i s tendered does not necessarily provide the winning bidder
with the right to generate and sell power. Since PLN is the dominant purchaser in the power
sector, investors are unlikely to invest significant fimds to develop upstream resources without
assurances that they can recover these costs through PPAs. The MEMR, which regulates both
the geothermal and the power sector, has begun to address the issue o f integrating geothermal
sites that are tendered, and will need to formalize these arrangements prior to undertaking any
transaction.

Upstream risk mitigation: Initial assessments indicate that the perceived costs o f "greenfield"
sites are higher than those that are already partially developed, largely due to the inherent risks
associated with upstream geothermal development. Much o fthese risks are likely to remain until
some test and production geothermal wells are drilled. Inorder to get maximum efficiency from
investors and through the competitive process, the Go1will need to consider the allocation o f
these risks and possibly the need for mitigation measures to provide developers with adequate
incentives.




                                                46

                                 Annex 5: DetailedProjectDescription
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATIONDEVELOPMENTPROJECT


Component 1: Policy Framework for Scaling-up the Development of GeothermalPower
(proposed GEF funding: US$l,lOO,OOO, Go1 funding US$2,500,000). This component will
assist the Go1 in developing and implementing an integrated set o f policies that will provide
sufficient regulatory certainty, risk mitigation, and economic incentives for increased public and
private investments toward developing geothermal power in Indonesia. Three key areas o f
assistance are proposed:

Cl.1: Development and implementation of policv to address incremental costs (pro-posed GEF
funding:    US$600,000). This subcomponent is designed to develop a pricing mechanism to
provide adequate economic incentives for developing geothermal resources. It will also address
any incremental costs that may be associated with some geothermal developments as a result o f
the market failure to incorporate the environmental externalities into investment decisions, which
remains a key barrier to geothermal development. The project will study international
experiences in formulating pricing and economic incentive mechanisms, evaluate the extent o f
the market failure and assess the incremental costs, confirm the funding requirements and
sources, and develop the operational procedures required to implement the selected option.
Many other countries have implemented policies that favor the development o f renewable
resources, such as geothermal, and these will be carefully studied during the project to identify
ones that would be suitable for application in Indonesia.        When implemented, this pricing
mechanism would cover any incremental costs and provide sufficient economic incentives to
immediately benefit developments under the control o f existing developers, but would also
extend to provide support to the longer terms development o f unallocated geothermal resources
inthe country.

Phase I:Select suitable option (s) for addressingincrementalcosts Duringthe first phase,
                                                                          -
the broad objective i s to determine the design o f the pricing mechanism and identify any
incremental costs. During this phase, the MEMR will need to revisit the Go1 geothermal
expansion plan and confirm the incremental cost estimates. Based on these requirements, they
will need to explore the sources for bridging this funding gap and develop a system through
which they would extend sufficient economic incentives for developers to undertake
investments. A Go1 decision on the form o f this mechanism will be an important milestone
before successfully offering investment opportunities through the transactions proposed in
project component 2. Duringthis phase, MEMR will also work with PLN to develop a pricing
structure that could be implemented through a standardized power purchase agreement.
Investors will look for a clear and practical solution that will confirm the "bankability" of the
projects offered by GoI. Therefore, it will be vital to engage stakeholders at this stage including
PLNinorder to incorporate their views inthe final design o fthe pricing policy.

Phase 11: Implement mechanism for addressing incremental costs                - Phase two would
comprise o f designing the implementation measures for the pricing mechanism. This would
include developing the operational procedures that would be required to secure funding from the




                                                 47

selected sources. MEMRwould also finalize any legal and policy documentation that is required
to formalize the pricing policy andoffer its options to investors.

C1.2: Development and introduction of risk mitigation measure(s) (vroposed GEF funding
US$400,000). This sub-component is designed to create a mechanism for mitigating upstream
resource development risks faced by geothermal developers in Indonesia (See Annex 4, Section
3). It i s intended to limit investor's exposure to uncertainty stemming from the potential power
capacity in geothermal fields and the relatively higher upfront investment costs - both o f which
can be prohibitive for commercial financing o f geothermal projects. International experience will
be evaluated before selecting a risk mitigation mechanism applicable to Indonesia, after which,
the project will develop procedures andarrange necessary funding for implementing the selected
mechanism. The development o f risk mitigation measures will be carefully coordinated with
other aspects o f the Geothermal Policy Framework (Component 1) and with the management of
transactions (Component 2 below) to ensure its integration.

Phase I:Select risk mitigation scheme to be implementedin Indonesia During the first
                                                                                -
phase, the MEMR will evaluate and identify the risks that predominate in geothermal
development in Indonesia, compare them with international experience, and formulate a suitable
mechanism for application. Duringthis assessment, they will specifically identify risks that are
unique to geothermal power development, and also consider existing risk mitigation measures
that may be in use for other areas in infrastructure. In developing a risk mitigation policy, the
MEMR will also engage investors to confirm their finding and also validate the proposed
solutions. At the conclusion o fphase 1,the Go1would have selected the specific mechanism (s)
they plan to apply for reducing risks in the geothermal sector in Indonesia. The selection o f a
suitable risk mitigation scheme will be an important aspect when offering investment
opportunities in geothermal fields that are deemed to carry considerable upstream development
risks (i.e. greenfields).

Phase11: Developprocedurefor implementingscheme and arrange necessary funding In               -
the second phase, the MEMR will develop the mechanism and procedures for implementing the
risk mitigation scheme. This would include the finalization o f any operational guidelines,
financing arrangements, and legal obligations. At its conclusion, the Go1 would be ready to
apply risk mitigation options to provide sufficient incentives for investors to exploit geothermal
fields where the uncertainty surroundingupstream development is substantial.

C1.3:      Support the implementation of the Geothermal Law hovosed GEF _funding:
US$lOO.OOO).       This sub-component will review the Geothermal Law and the draft
Implementation Rules and Regulations o f the Geothermal Law as well as other related policies,
identifygaps within the documents andpotential hindrances to future geothermal power project
investments, and recommend necessary changes and supplementary policies and regulations, in
view o f the coherence o f the overall policy framework for geothermal power development in
Indonesia. The implementation o f this sub-component will be done in conjunction with the
component on transaction management (Component 2), since the application o f the Geothermal
Law has far ranging implications for geothermal investors.




                                                 48

56.    Component 2:         Transactions Management for Mobilizing Investments in the
Geothermal Power (proposed GEF funding: US$2,350,000, Go1 funding: US$l,OOO,OOO).
This component will assist the GoI, especially the MEMR, to develop the capacity for planning
and transacting geothermal power developments in an efficient and transparent manner. The
present lack o f a credible mechanism for offering geothermal development opportunities i s a key
shortcoming to attracting investors (Annex 4 Section 4). The transactions would be the conduit
through which the pricing and economic incentives in the new policy framework would be
integrated as a "bankable" project to be offered to investors. It will aim to mobilize two distinct
groups o f investors: (i) existing developers who were given control o f geothermal fields under
PD45/1991, and (ii)   new investment opportunities to exploit geothermal resources in greenfield
sites. At a strategic level, the activities in this component will help operationalize policies and
procedures necessary for eventually realizing the government's goal o f 6,000 MW installed
geothermal power capacity by 2020. Through this component, the Go1will be able to directly
leverage investments in the geothermal sector, and also establish procedures and processes that
can be replicated beyond the duration o f the project.

C2.1: Expanding power generation in geothermal fields alreadv allocated to investors
(jroposed GEFfunding: US$350,000). This sub-component is designed to catalyze investments
by existing developers to expand geothermal power generation in fields under their control.
These geothermal fields present an interesting challenge since Go1will likely need to rely on the
same existing developers to undertake the expansion, but many o f them have grievances that
remain from offers made during the early 90's. Therefore, the project will review the legacy
issues o f the geothermal fields which were allocated to investors under PD45/1991, identify and
recommend appropriate solutions, develop and implement transaction agreements/arrangements
consistent with the economic incentives provided in the new policy framework developed in
Component 1, and structure offers that would lead to the development o f about 300 MW of new
generation capacity inthese geothermal fields. The specific activities o f this subcomponent will
include:

    9 Detailed review of issues related to existing geothermal fields including prior JOC
       commitments, to identify applicable constraints and methods of overcoming those
    >  constraints.
       Develop transaction arrangements consistent with new policy framework for mobilizing
       investments andpricing mechanism.
    9 Design procurement process and operational guidance note, including standard form
       bidding documents, PPA, standard form waiver and restatement agreement (to replace
       existingPPA), standard form land lease, andpricing arrangements.
    9 Obtain approval ofprocess anddocumentationwithinGo1and amongst stakeholders, in
       particular PLN.
    9 Engage existing investors on concepts proposed to gather market feedback and
       implement into standardform documentation.
    9 Preparenecessarylegalandpolicydocumentationthat wouldneedtobeissued.
    9 Finalizeagreementsbetweendevelopers andGo1indicating acceptanceofoffer.




                                                  49

Itis important to notethat some "brownfield" projects face bamers that are unique beyondthose
identified previously. Addressing these isolated issues goes beyond the scope o f the proposed
project, which will focus more on resolving the primaryobstacles to achieve maximumimpact.

C2.2: Facilitatina transactions of new geothermal fields for development (proposed GEF
funding:      US$2,000,000). This sub-component will develop the procedures through which
MEMRwill offer new geothermal development opportunities to potential investors in line with
their long-term development plans. This will include the development o f criteria for project
selection, the transaction procedures, and model bidding documents, which would be consistent
with the Geothermal Law and the new policy framework for economic incentives and risk
mitigation as well as meet international standards o f good practice. This sub-component will also
financially engineer a selected project (50 MW installed capacity or greater in scale) to ensure
that it i s "bankable" and offer it through the transaction process in order to mobilize financing
towards developing the investment. This sub-component can be subsequently customized for
offering fiuther investment opportunities in geothermal development. The main tasks that will
be undertaken include the following:

    9 Develop criteria for selecting fields to betenderedbasedon geothermal as well as power
         sector factors, and reevaluate proposed sites. As part o f this process, an analysis will be
         made o f the optimal amount o f technical information (e.g. analysis o f the steam capacity
         o f the site) that should be made available to bidders, from a value for money perspective.
         The marginal cost o f additional information is high; this analysis will indicate how much
         the MEMR should spend on gathering such information given the reduction o f power
         prices andthe time neededto obtain such information.
    9 Design, agree and market test a standard form procurement process, including bidding
         documents, landlease, PPA andpricing mechanismto strengthentransaction process so it
         is robust and transparent raising credibility with investors.         PLN and other key
         stakeholders will be consulted on this process, and PLN's approval o f the PPA and
         procurement process obtained.       Market testing will also allow a preliminary market
         consultation on the future o f geothermal power generation in Indonesia, the pricing and
         procurement policies to be used, andassessingmarket appetite for new projects (allowing
         the MEMR to design a program for letting brownfield and greenfield projects to the
         market at the rightpace).
    9 Guidance note on the above process and approval within Go1 and associated
         stakeholders, in particular PLN. The guidance note process will help capacity amongst
         MEMR staff to manage the procurement process, and broad consultation with PLNwill
         reduce the likelihood o f confusionhornpetition amongst different entities once the
        procurement processes commence in earnest.           More than a note, this will provide
        practical advice, documentation, checklists and other tools useful to the team
         implementing such projects.
    9 Firmuparrangements with localgovernments includingissuesrelatedto landacquisition,
        permits and royalty payments. These interfaces create particular stumbling blocks in
        infrastructure projects o f all sorts, wherever land acquisition i s needed. By developing
        these arrangements in advance, MEMR will be able to avoid much o f the time constraint
        created by the land acquisition process, and potential conflict with local authorities whose
        priorities may differ from the MEMR in particular in relation to the royalty payments



                                                 50

       charged to investors and paid to the local government. By addressing these issues in
       advance, greater efficiency should result from the procurementprocess.
    9 Firm up arrangements for defining and applying safeguard regimes, in particular in
       relation to environmental risk assessment and resettlement.          This will clarify the
       application o f Indonesianlaw on the se subjects but also best practice risk management to
       remove the constraints oflen associated with such issues where they are not addressed
       early in the project development cycle. MEMR and PLN will input into this strategy.
       Guidance will be provided on the practical applicationo f the safeguards, including timing
       o f application and associated resource requirements. This is further elaborated inAnnex
        10on Safeguards.
    9 Processes and documentation while useful will be ineffective without comprehensive
       training regimes for MEMRandother stakeholder staff. This will include classic training
       but also learning while doing by integrating MEMR staff into the project development
       advisory team, allowing Go1 staff to learn fi-om experts with significant experience in
       geothermalPPP transactions, best practiceprocurement methods and IPPprojects.

In Phase 11, Project funding will be used to support the implementation of a select greenfield
transaction from pre-feasibility through the tender process towards financial closure with the
selected investor. It i s conservatively envisaged that the selected investment project would be at
least 50 MW comprising a total investment upwards o f $100 million. By undertaking the
transaction, MEMR will be able to market-test the standard form process and documentation
developed inPhase Io f this sub-component. It will also enable Go1to enhance their transaction
capacity by working with international expert transaction advisors. The key elements o f the
transaction process will include:

    9 Pre-feasibility Study - basic financial and technical review of the project using the
       revised selection criteria.
    9 Feasibility Study - financial analysis and structuring of transaction, economic analysis
    >  and safeguard requirements.
       Design procurement process/documentation based on the standard forms developed,
       including market interaction such as investor road shows to promote project/transaction.
    9 Implement procurement process, with prequalification andbidprocess, managingbidder
       comments andnegotiations, encouraging financier involvement and further refinement o f
       documentation.
    9 Evaluate andselect winningbidder
    b Negotiatewith successful biddedfinancial close.

Component 3: GeothermalSector Technical Capacity Building (proposed GEF funding:
US$350,000, Go1funding: US$1,300,000). This component will address the limited domestic
technical capacity for handling most geothermal related activities, and support the long-term
development prospects o f the sector.

C3.1: Training of government officials and technical staff in planning and transaction
management (proposed GEF funding: US$150,000). Presently, MEMR staff and other relevant
Go1 officials have limited experience with competitively transacting geothermal development
opportunities to investors. This sub-component will train relevant staff in the central and local



                                                51

governments in preparing transactions, engaging investors, evaluating bids, and negotiating
financial closings.   The specific training needs will be identified as part o f the transactions
assistance work in Component 2.           The proposed activities will mainly involve training
workshops and seminars, in addition to the on-the-job training they will receive through their
work facilitating actual transactions.

C3.2: Building awareness (proposed GEF funding:              US$50.000) This sub-component i s
designed to enhance the familiarity o f various stakeholders with the implementation aspects o f
the Geothermal Law as well as the Go1geothermal power developmenttargets andsector reform
program. It will also specifically focus on sharing information regarding the transaction regime
developed and demonstrated by the proposed project. The MEMRhas already held several such
information discussions with a broad set o f stakeholders including civil society during project
preparation.   The sub-compnent will support a series o f seminars and stakeholder dialogs to
promote the sector as well as obtain feedback that can be incorporated into the ongoing reform
program.Key subject areas o f focus duringthe activities will include:

    9 Project informationdissemination to stakeholders andcivil society
    9 GeothermalLawandImplementingRulesandRegulations
    9 GeothermalReformProgram(pricing, risk,transactions)
    9 RoleofLocalGovernments inGeothermalDevelopment

C3.3: Ovtions for long-term cost reduction (proposed GEF funding:            US$l.50,000) As a
preparation for implementing a cost reduction program in geothermal related industries in
Indonesia for enhanced domestic participation and competitiveness, the project will support an
industrial analysis that will be conducted to identify key areas where local industries maintain a
comparative advantage, and develop a sector strategy to strengthen their roles and participation
inthe geothermal power development industry. The followingbroadtasks willbe undertaken in
the development o f the study:

    9 Reviewgeothermal sector for technicalneeds
    9 Assesspresent domestic participation
    9 Conduct industrialanalysis to identifycomparative advantages
    9 Developcost reductionstrategyfor geothermal
    9 Proposeimplementationplanfor strategy

Component 4:         Project management assistance (proposed proposed GEF funding:
US$200,000, Go1funding: US$200,000). This component will provide the necessary technical
consultant support to the Directorate o f Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Ground Water
Management, the executive implementation unit, for the management and supervision o f the
project. It will ensure the efficient implementation o f the aforementioned activities by assisting
with project implementation, monitoring and reporting, including a project manager to assist
DGESGWM, as well as additional consultant assistance for procurement and financial
management.




                                                52

3 0 0 0
3 0 0 0
3, 0-0 0-
3 0 0 0
3 0 0 0
",09, mN
N -

* W W W          A W W W




         i
         .y



         0
         a
         8 - c ?
         u v u
         O P i N




            53

                           Annex 7: ImplementationArrangements
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATIONDEVELOPMENTPROJECT


1.      Key entities andresponsibilitiesand/or functions

Implementation agency: Ministryo fEnergy and Mineral Resources (MEMR)

Responsible department of M E M R : Directorate General o f Mineral, Coal, and Geothermal
(DGMCG)

Executive implementation agency within DGMCG: Directorate o f Geothermal Enterprise
Supervision and Ground Water Management (DGESGWM). The director of DGESGWM will
be responsible for carrying out the implementationactivities.

Project manager: Individual consultant hiredby DGESGWM, reports directly to the director o f
DGESGWM, day-to-day coordination o f project implementation activities, project progress
monitoring andreporting.

Stakeholder advisory group: Representative o f key stakeholders and concerned government
agencies, including:    Ministries o f Finance, Planning, Forestry, Environment, Energy and
Mineral Resources, PLN, and investors/operators o f producing geothermal fields.     The main
finction o f the stakeholder advisory group i s to provide timely comments and feedbacks on the
policy development work undertaken by the project so as to enhance the applicability and
effectiveness o f proposed policies. The advisory group will meet twice a year or depending on
work progress.

2.      Other importantinstitutionalarrangements

Bappenas will be involved in the monitoring o f project implementation, in particular related to
the progress towards achievement o f outputs and objectives o f the project. The Directorate for
Energy, Mining and Mineral Resources, will be the main counterpart in Bappenas for the
monitoring of this project's implementation. In addition, the Directorate for Electricity,
Telecommunication and Informatics in Bappenas i s responsible for matters concerning power
generation, hence also has a stake inthis project.

Since geothermal involves non oil and gas energy resource extraction as well as generation o f
electricity (downstream), DGMCG, which regulates the upstream geothermal activities needs to
cooperate with Directorate General for Electricity and Energy Utilization (DGEEU), which
regulates the downstream power generation. The State Electricity Company (PLN) as the single
grid off-taker for all power generation, including geothermal, is under the supervision o f
DGEEU. Both DGEEU and DGMCG are under the jurisdiction o f MEMR. Cooperation
between DGMCG and DGEEU i s vital in ensuring the effective implementation o f geothermal
power development that inevitably involves PLN.




                                                 54

The Ministry o f Finance i s responsible for the fiscal aspects relating to geothermal power
generation, including the tax regime and provision o f any fiscal incentives. In addition, the
Public Service Obligation (PSO) subsidy mechanism to PLN is implemented by the Ministry o f
Finance. The Ministry o f Finance i s an important stakeholder, particularly for the aspect o f
pricing and incentives, as well as the risk allocation embedded ina transaction's agreement as far
as government is among the bearer o f any one or more risks that may arise due to such
geothermalpower development transaction.

Other concerned government agencies include the Ministry o f Environment and the Ministry o f
Forestry, with the former responsible for environmental management issues and the latter for the
permits to utilize forest areas. Under the Geothermal Law, local governments are the holder o f
the rights to issue mininglicense and to conduct transaction o f geothermal fields.

3.      Mainactivitiesandimplementationarrangements

The main implementationactivities are described as follows:

Component 1: Policv development and implementation, including three areas o f activities: (i)
selecting and implementing a policy and fbnding mechanism for addressing incremental costs;
(ii)selecting and developing instrument and related procedures for mitigating upstream risks;
(iii)assisting the review and enhancement of the Implementation Rules and Regulations
(IRRs)of Geothermal Law.

Component2: Transactions development and management, involving three lines o f activities:
(i)expansion o f generation capacity in operating brownfields, with a target o f reaching financial
closure on about 300 MW newly installed capacity at the completion o f project implementation;
and (ii)development o f a 50 MW greenfield project, with a target o f reaching financial closure at
the completion o f the project.

Component 3:        Sector technical capacity building, including three lines o f activities:   (i)
transactions management training, through on-the-job mentoring and targeted workshops; (ii)
awareness and promotion programs about sector policies and investment opportunities; and (iii)
an industry survey to determine domestic comparative advantages and priorities for targeted
government support innational technical capacity development.

From a project management point o f view, the project activities (Components 1-3) are covered
by five consultant service contracts provided by firms and several small individual constant
contracts. Two o f the consultant service contracts will cut across components due to the closely
relationships o f concerned activities. This i s illustratedby the color-coded diagram below.




                                                    55

            Figure A7.1: Divisionof ProjectImplementationActivities by Consultant Service Contract




                                    Instrument for mitigating            Consultant Service

      Developmentand


                                    Enhancement of lRRs of
                                    GeothermalLaw
                                 1                           ' \
                                                                   \I    Consultant Service




Due to the cross links between policy developmenthmplementationand transactions activities,
coordination o f between Component 1 and Component 2 activities i s very important. In fact
without some critical outputs o f the Component 1 activities, implementation o f transactions will
not be fruitful since there will be no concrete policy support. To enhance the cross-linkage
between Component 1 and Component 2 activities and improve the overall effectiveness of the
propose project in achieving financial closures on new geothermal power capacity, two cross-
link triggers are identifiedas crucial conditions for proceedingwithtransactions implementation:




                                                   56

      Cross-link trigger 1: Go1 development o f the policies and finding mechanisms to
      provide sufficient economic incentive to address the incremental cost associated with
      geothermal power development. The endorsed policy measure must include a clearly
      defined mechanism to identify the off-take price o f geothermal electricity, the related
      finding mechanism, the process for awarding the new off-take pricing to specific
      projects, andthe implementationschedule.

      Cross-link trigger 2: PLN or other appropriate off-taker agreement on the form o f a
      model power purchase agreement (PPA) which i s endorsed by MEMR. The model PPA
      will include conditions for connecting a geothermal power plant to the national grid and
      other remainingterms within a givenperiod.

The general sequence o f individual project activities andthe particular stages where the triggers
andconsequential actions are assessedare identifiedinthe following figure A7.2




                                                57

    1




58

              Annex 8: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


ExecutiveSummaryandConclusion

The project will be financed from GEF amounted to $4 million and implementedover four years
(2008-2011). The project intends to assist the government to prepare and implement their
geothermal reform program designed to address key policy, institutional, and risk associated
barriers inorder to promote the progressively greater utilization o f geothermal resources that will
provide renewable energy to the electricity market in an efficient, cost-effective, and
environmentally friendly manner.

Director General o f Mineral, Coal and Geothermal (DGMCG), Ministry o f Energy and Mineral
Resources (MEMR), will be the executing agency for the project implementation. Directorate o f
Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Ground Water Management (DGESGWM) will be
responsible for managingthe project, and will serve as a project managementunit. The objective
o f the project's financial management assessment i s to determine whether the financial
management system o f the implementing agency i s capable o f producing timely, relevant and
reliable financial information on the project activities, and if the accounting systems for the
project expenditures and underlying internal controls are adequate to meet fiduciary
requirements and allow the Bank to monitor compliance with agreed implementation procedures
and appraise progress towards its objectives.

The financial management assessment has identified that risks could arise from some factors and
have taken into account the on-going reforms in financial management in the country. One
inherent risk is related to DGESGWM staff capacity. DGMCG staff does not have experience
with Bank financed projects. The financial management (FM) staff capacity needs hrther
strengthening. Secondly, risks may arise from weaknesses in internal control over training and
seminar expenditures, which, in other similar projects in Indonesia, have been found to be
vulnerable to lapses incontrol.

These risks will be mitigated by i)providing appropriate technical assistance to the DGESGWM
for hlfilling its required financial management responsibilities; ii)putting in place additional
financial control procedures on training/workshops expenditures inthe project operation manual,
such as supporting documentation that all activities are supported by reports, attendance lists for
workshops and trainings and third party invoices. The additional financial control procedures
should be included inthe project operation manual.

Overall, the project financial management risk i s assessed as being moderate. This assessment
has concluded that, with the successhl implementation o f the proposed actions, the risks will be
substantially mitigated, and the proposed financial management arrangements will satisfy the
Bank's minimumrequirements under OPA3P10.02 and are adequate to provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the grant requiredby the Bank.More
details of the financial management assessment are detailed inthe remaindero fthe annex.




                                               59

Summary o f Proiect Description

The total proposed project cost is US$ 4 million. The project will consist o f the following
components and activities:

   Component 1 Policy Framework for Scaling up the Development of Geothermal Power,
   (estimate U S D 1,100,000). The project will aim to assist the GO1improve the present set o f
   policies inorder to enhance the investment climate for highquality geothermal development.
   The project will assist MEMR implement a policy mechanisms to address pricing issues and
   economic incentives, develop an instrument to mitigate upstream geothermal risks, and help
   implement the geothermal law.

   Component 2: Transactions to mobilize investments in the Geothermal Sector (Estimated
   US$2,350,000). Inthis component, the project will leverage funding for geothermal projects
   by (1) expanding development in fields that are already allocated to investors, and (2)
   develop the procedures and implement a competitive tender for an unallocated geothermal
   field.

   Component3: Technicalcapacity building andProject ManagementAssistance (Estimated
   US$ 550,000). This component includes training to facilitate geothermal transactions,
   seminars and stakeholder dialogues to increase awareness regarding sector development
   among local governments and other stakeholders. Assistance to DGESGWM to assist with
   the incrementalcosts o fmanaging the project is also included.

Country Issues

Based on the most recent Country Financial Management Assessment (CFAA) and other
diagnostic reports, there are major acknowledged deficiencies in Public Financial Management
(PFM) systems inthe country that havebeenacceptedby the government. These include:


   0   Unreliable accounting and reporting systems whereas the central government financial
       report has been disclaimed bythe auditors for the past three years;
   0   Un-reconciled expenditures at the ministries;
   0   Fragmented cash management and government bankingarrangements;
   0   Unclear roles o fvarious internal government internal auditors; and
   0   Poor salary structure and absence o f sanctions inthe civil services.

The PFMreform agenda has been defined and ledby the Government, and i s being supported by
several donors, including the World Bank. Significant progresses have beenmade in some PFM
areas to date, including the completion o f a legal and regulatory architecture for modern PFM,
such as a the issuanceso f implementing rules and regulations on state finances and state treasury,
implementation o f treasury single account system and the consolidation o f fragmented
government bank accounts.




                                               60

StrengthsandWeaknesses

The project has strengths and weakness in several areas. The project design has the following
strengths:

    0  The project design is simple, with mainly technical assistance, training and workshops
       activities; and
    0  Project location i s only inJakarta.

Some weaknesses noted duringthe assessment are as follows:

    0  Project staff does not have prior experience with the Bank's rules and procedures. It may
       delay project implementationand slow disbursement; and
    0  Risks may exist in internal control over training and workshops expenditures, which in
       the past havebeen found to beproneto misuseinother similar projects inIndonesia.

The project's weaknesses may create some risks during implementation. The project includes
several mechanisms to mitigate these risks. Among them are:

       FM consultant assistance will be secured by DGESGWM for fulfilling its required
       financial management responsibilities;
       Putting in place additional financial control procedures on training/workshops
       expenditures in the project operation manual, such as supporting documentation that all
       activities are supported by reports, attendance lists for workshops and trainings and third
       partyinvoices
       Participation o f civil society inproject outreach as well as public procurement activities;
       The Project's financial transactions and activities will be subject to audits by the
       Inspector General o fthe Ministry; and
       An independent financial audit will beperformed annually by an auditor acceptable to the
       Bank.

RiskAssessment Summary

A detailed analysis o f financial management risks arising from the country situation, the
proposed project entities and specific project features and related internal controls has been
completed during the assessment, and i s summarized below. These risks have been rated on a
scale consisting o fHigh, Substantial, Moderate and Low.




                                                 61

                                                  Summary Comments
                                                  AndRiskMitigation



A. InherentRisks
Country Level
1.Government            S    Government financial reporting is often unreliable with un-         N
Financial Reporting         reconciled, expenditure differences between Line Ministries
                             and the Treasury offices. The govemment has on going
                            activities to improve the PFMthrough GFMRAPproject.
2. Civil Services       S   The government has started to consider civil services                N
Poor civil sewice           reforms. However, payment structure, internal incentives,
payment structures          staff capability ingeneral remain inadequate and need further
incentives                   improvement
Overall Country
Risk
EntityLevel
1. Implementing         S   Although the DG M C G has engaged the World Bank to                  N
EntityOrganization          advise the newly developed directorate on geothermal
Status of the entity        development, it has never managed the Bank's grant or loan
                            before. Additional FM support will be provided to
                            DGESGWM through consultant services as a part o f project
                            management assistance.

Project Level
 1.Project             M    The Project i s relatively simple because it consists o f            y,
 Complexity                 technical assistance and training & workshops. The            project manual
                            qualification and selection criteria o f consultants who will prior to project
                            provide technical assistance and facilitate trainings &        effectiveness
                            workshops should be defined in the Project Manual. This
                            Manual should be developed and acceptable to the Bank
                            prior to project effectiveness.
2. FMstaff capacity.    S   DGESGWM has inadequate FM staff capacity that has                    N
Inadequate FM staf          previous experiences with the Bank financed project.
                            Additional FM support will be provided to DGESGWM
                            through consultant services as a part o f project management
                            assistance.
Overall Project Risk
B. Control Risk
 1. Budget              S   Currently DGMCG is preparing the budget proposal (RKA-               N
 Delay in issue of          KL) for FY 2008. The proposal only included the
 budget documents           government part, instead o f grant allocation.        Unless,
                            DGMCG includes the grant allocation in the proposal, the
                            project implementation may delay due to late issuance o f the
                            budget documents (DIPA).
2. Accounting          M    All project transaction will be recorded in the govemment            N
Reliability of              accounting system. In addition,      DGESGWM will have
rrccountingsystem           additional accounting code for the project purposes. The
                            specific accounting code & procedures will be included in
                            h e Project Manual.




                                           62

        1ssuc.s         Risks                                Summary Comments
                        [High /                              And RiskMitigation
                        Strhstantialt'
                        Moderatef

3. Internal Control    1      S         DGESGWM should include additional financial control
Inadequatepayment                       procedures o n soft expenditures in the project operation
verijication                            manual such as accounting evidence that all activities are
                                        supported by output reports, attendance lists for trainings and
                                        seminars. Inaddition, IG will perform internal audit function
                                        to the project implementation.
                                        Flow o f fund will use existing government procedures where           N
                                        KPPN (Treasury Office) transfer the fund directly to
                                        consultant or suppliers' account.
5 . Financial Report          M         DGESGWM will prepare a separate set o f project financial             N
Reliability and                         report for the Bank reporting purposes. The specific reporting
timeliness of                           procedures will be included inthe Project Manual.
financial reports
6. ExternalAudit              M         BPKP will be accepted as the project auditor. The auditor             y,
Integrity of the                        will audit the project annual financial statements and submit   Acceptable Audit
auditor andpoor                         the report to the Bank six months after the fiscal year closes. TOR to be agreed
follow up on the                        The audit report and the management letter will be made          withthe Bank




Implementing Entity

The grant will be implemented by the Directorate o f Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and
Ground Water Management (DGESGWM), Director General o f Mineral, Coal and Geothermal
(DGMCG), Ministry o f Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR). The Directorate has inadequate
FM staff capacity as it has never managed a Bank financed project. Therefore, the project will
have a provision to secure FM consultant services to assist the DGESGWM. The consultants
will provide technical assistance on financial management, including budget document
preparation, disbursement mechanism, accounting and reporting. The consultant will also assist
the DGESGWMto prepare quarterly financial reports for the project purposes.
AccountingandReporting

All financial transaction for the project will be recorded in the government accounting system
and included inthe central government financial report. For the Bank purpose, the project will
prepare a separate set of project financial report which suitable for project monitoring purposes.
The specific accounting procedures for the project financial report should be included in the
Project OperationManual.

PMU will maintain separate accounting records, on a cash basis. FM consultants will assist
DGESGWM on financial administration. DGESGWM will be responsible to prepare an
aggregate Interim Financial Reports (IFR) and submit this to the Bank on a quarterly basis, in
formats to be agreed with the bank. Special purpose financial statements for this project will be
prepared annually for audit purposes.



                                                        63

InternalAudit

MEMRhas Inspector General that performs as internal auditor for the Minister. The project will
be part o f IG supervision and monitoring. IG will perform an operational audit for the project
activities, includes reviewing internal control mechanism in the project implementing unit
(DGESGWM). A copy o f IGaudit report should be available uponthe Bankrequest.

ExternalAudit

The annual audit o fthe project financial statement will be carried out by auditor acceptable to the
Bank.The audit report will be furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the end o fthe
government's fiscal year. The audit assignment will be performed inaccordance with the agreed
Terms o f Reference. The annual audit will include a review and reconciliation o f Special
Account transactions.

Disbursement Arrangement

Inorder to facilitate disbursements, a Designated (Special) Account (DA) denominated inUS
dollars will be opened byDGTreasury inthe Central Bank (BI) or a commercial bank acceptable
to the Bank under the name o f Ministry o f Finance. DG Treasury will authorize its relevant
Treasury Office (KPPN) to authorize payments of eligible project expenditures by issuance o f
SP2D (remittance order) charging the DA. For this purpose, DG Treasury shall issue a circular
letter to the relevant KPPN Offices providing guidelines and criteria for eligible project
expenditures inaccordance with the Grant Agreement.

When expenditures are due for payment, DGESGWM will prepare SPP (payment request) to the
payment officer within the Satker. After documents verification, the payment officer will issue
SPM (payment order) together with the supporting documentation for submission to the relevant
KPPN. The KPPN will check the budget eligibility and issue SP2D to the DA holding bank
which will transfer the fund directly to the consultant or supplier's account and debit to the DA
for the Grantportion.

The applicable disbursement method is advance to the DA. The DA will be solely used to
finance eligible project expenditures. While the DA will be under the name o f DG Treasury
MOF, the DGESGWM will be the one responsible to reconcile the DA and to prepare the
application for withdrawal for advances and reporting the use o f the DA, duly approved by DG
Treasury before their submissions to the Bank. Copies o f the DA's bank statement will be
provided to the DGESGWMbyDGTreasury, MOF.

The ceiling o f the advance to DA will be fixed at $600,000. Applications for replenishment to
the DA would be submitted monthly, based on the reporting o f use o f the DA, including: (i)    list
payments for contracts under Bank's prior-review and records evidencing such expenditures, or
(ii)statement of expenditures (SOEs) for all other expenses, and (iii)DA reconciliation
statement. When the DGESGWM has the capability to produce timely the quarterly Interim
FinancialReport (IFR), reporting the use o f funds would be based on the IFR.




                                               64

All documentation for expenditures submitted for disbursement will be retained at the
implementing unit and shall b e made available to the auditors for the annual audit and to the
Bank anditsrepresentatives ifrequested.



                CategoryDescription                 Allocation       % of expenditures to
                                                                        be financed
      (1) Consultant Services                             3,970,000                  100
      (2) Workshops, goods and supplies*                     30,000                  100
                                         Total            4,000,000




Supervision Plan

Supervision of project financial management will b e performedon a risk-based approach at least
twice a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system, including
but not limited to budgeting, payment verification, accounting, reporting and internal control.
The financial management supervision will be conducted by financial management specialist and
Bankconsultants.

Action Plan& Conditionality

                            Action
  1. A draft project management manual to be submitted        DGESGWM              Completed
  to the Bank for approval.
  2. A final project management manual acceptable to the
  Bank i s formally adopted for the project.
  3. A confirmation letter from the Inspector General on           IG              Completed
  internal audit assignment i s submitted to the Bank
  confirming that this project activity i s included in its
  annual work program and that copies of their reports
  would be submitted to the Bank.
  4. Individual FMconsultant services have been selected.     DGESGWM        One (1) month after
  The consultant services are to assist DGESGWM on                           Effectiveness
  financial management aspects, including budget, control
  and report preparation.




                                                  65

                               Annex 9: ProcurementArrangements
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


A.      General

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines:      Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004 and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreements. The general descriptions o f various
items under different expenditure category are described below. For each contract to be financed
by the GEF Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated
costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and the Bank
project team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

Procurement of Works and Goods: No procurement o f works is anticipated. Goods to be
procured would include training materials and limited office equipment (computers and
peripherals).    The contract value is expected to be very small (less than $50,000) and the
procurement will be based on the Shopping procedures.

Selection of Consultants: Consultant services are expected in the following areas: pricing
mechanism to provide adequate economic incentives; instrument for upstream risk mitigation;
design, preparation, and implementation for geothermal investment transactions; awareness
program for geothermal development; long-term cost reduction options; and project management
support. These services would be procured mostly through Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS). If applicable, Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) may be used for
consulting services estimated to cost less than $200,000.          Individual consultants would be
selected in accordance with the Section V o f the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. If warranted,
short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract
may be composed entirely of national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. To expedite the Project implementation, the implementing
agency will carry out advance procurement for some o f the consultant services contracts. These
contracts include packages ref. 1to 3, related to assistance with a pricing mechanism, upstream
risk mitigation options, and transaction preparation.        The retroactive financing threshold is
established at $100,000, mostly to cover the project management and procurement services that
is expected to be undertaken inadvance.

Operational Costs: All incremental operating costs will be covered by the local counterpart
funds.

B.      Assessment ofthe Apencv's Capacitvto ImplementProcurement

The main implementing agency (IA) is the Directorate o f Geothermal under the Directorate
General o fMineral, Coal and Geothermal, Ministry o fEnergy andMineral Resources.


                                                  66

Assessments o f the IA's procurement capacity for the project have been carried out as part o f the
project preparation.     The assessments reviewed the organizational structure for project
implementation and an assessmentreport is available inthe project files.
The main procurement related risks identified and the mitigation measures adopted are
summarized below:

   0   To mitigate the risk associated with the low capacity in handling Bank financed
       procurement, the Bank has provided procurement training duringthe preparationphase o f
       the Project.
   0   To mitigate the risk associated with any confusion between provisions in Keppres
       80/2003 and in Bank's Procurement Guidelines, the IA should prepare a Project
       Management Manual (PMM) that includes a Procurement Section. The section should
       contain simplified and easy to understand instructions based on Bank's Procurement
       Guidelines. The section should also clearly state that Bank rules shall prevail inthe case
       o f conflicts between the Bank procurement guidelines and Keppres 80/2003 or other local
       rules andregulations.
   0   To mitigate the risk o f corruption, the IA should include the established measures to
       address corruption issues inthe PMM, such as steps to report and investigate any cases o f
       collusion, fraudulent, corrupt and coercive practices, as well as remedial actions.        It
       should clarify the complaint handling procedures that are in place. This should include
       automatic referrals to BPKP and KPK (the national Corruption Eradication Commission)
       to conduct investigative audits ifthere are strong indications o f such irregular practice.

Procurement under the Project would be straightforward involving only consultant selections and
almost all the contracts will be subject to the Bank prior review. Based on this, and taking into
account the above risks and risk mitigation measures, the overall project risk for procurement is
rated as "AVERAGE".

C.     Procurement Plan

A Procurement Planhas beendeveloped and agreed betweenthe IA and the Bank Project Team
and is available at the IA's office. The Procurement Plan will also be available inthe Project's
database and in the Bank's external website. It should be updatedin agreement with the Project
Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs.

D.     Frequency of Procurement SuDervision

All major contracts will be subject to prior review, for which the review, monitoring and
supervision will be carried out from Bank office based inJakarta on a regular basis. Inaddition,
procurement supervision and post review will be conducted as part o f the regular project
supervision missions at least twice per year.




                                                67

E.     Details of the ProcurementArranpements

    1. Goods andWorks

         Shopping procedures will be followed for the purchase o f training materials and limited
         office equipment (computers andperipherals). (Estimated cost US$30,000)

     2. ConsultingServices.

     (a) List o f Consulting Assignments with short-list o f international firms.


   1                2                   3               4             5          6              7

  Ref.        Description of       Estimated                    Review by    Expected
  No.          Assignment              Cost        Selection        WB
                                                    Method        (Prior /   Submission
                                                                             Proposa1s Comments
                                      (US$)                         Post)      Date



         PricingPolicy to              600,000       QCBS           Prior    May, 2008
         Address Incremental
         costs

         Instrumentfor                 400,000       QCBS           Prior    May, 2008
         UpstreamRisk
         Mitigation

         Design and Preparation        900,000       QCBS           Prior    May, 2008
         for Geothermal
         Investment
         Transactions

         Implementationfor           1,700,000       QCBS          Prior     May, 2009  To be carried
         GeothermalInvestment                                                           out after the
         Transactions                                                                   Assignment 3.
                                                                                        The consultant
                                                                                        for "3" will
                                                                                        not be eligible
                                                                                        for "4".
        Long-TermCost                  150,000       CQSI          Prior     May, 2008
        Reduction Options                           QCBS

        Awareness Program              20,000         I C           Post                   Multiple
                                                                                           contracts
IThefollowing assignments will be carried out by individual consultants.

  7.    Overall Project               200,000         I C      Prior or Post               Multiple
        Management Support                                                                 contracts


    (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for
         individuals (ifany) per contract and all Single Source Selection o f consultants (if any)
         willbe subject to prior review by the Bank.



                                                     68

    (c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Not expected at the time o f
         project appraisal. However, if need arises during project implementation andjustified,
         short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent
         per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the
         provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.


F.     Bank Prior Review Thresholds

  Expenditure        Contract Value Threshold      Procurement         Contracts Subjectto Prior
    Category                 (US%,OOO)                Method               Review (US%'OOO)
Goods                           <50                   Shopping             Firsttwo contracts
Consultant services            >=200              QCBS, QBS, FBS            >=lo0 & all SSS

                                <200                   CQS
                                NA                      I C                 >=50 & all SSS




                                                69

                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATIONDEVELOPMENTPROJECT


Introduction

This operation i s not financing investments such as exploration for or development o f
geothermal energy sources and consequently will not have environmental or social impacts. It
aims to remove barriers that have impeded expansion o f geothermal power generation in
resource-rich Indonesia and to make investment in geothermal power more attractive and
efficient. The investments that will follow, if this operation meets its development objective,
will be positive in their global environmental impacts in that the additions they will make to
generating capacity inIndonesiawill be through the tapping o f a renewable resource, with vastly
smaller emissions o f greenhouse gases, other air pollutants, water pollutants and solid wastes in
comparison with oil or coal-fired generating plants. However, geothermal power development
can have potential impacts that can be adverse to the natural and human environments. As part
o f the reforms the project seeks to achieve, it will develop guidelines and models for prospective
investors in geothermal power to assist them in complying with the applicable social and
environmental laws, regulations and guidelines o f Indonesia, taking into account international
good practice.

PotentialAdverseImpactsof GeothermalPowerGeneration

Impacts can occur in any o f four stages o f geothermal energy development:              exploration,
construction, operation, and decommissioning. Environmental issues that arise during drilling
are the main environmental concerns during the pre-feasibility/exploration stage and during
construction. During operations, the issues are noise, water pollution, and, to a lesser extent, air
emissions. Once a plant has outlived its useful life, the decommissioning plan needs to address
safety hazards and possible contamination o f groundwater. Occupational health and safety are
concerns inall four stages. The stages are discussed inmore detail below.

Exploration/Pre-feasibility

The first perceptible effect on the environment i s that o f drilling, whether the boreholes are
shallow to measure the geothermal gradient in the pre-feasibility exploration phase, or
exploratory to assess the production potential. Installation o f a drilling rig and all the accessory
equipment entails the construction o f access roads and a drilling pad. These operations will
modify the surface morphology o f the area and could damage local plants andwildlife as well as
physical cultural resources. Land may have to be acquired, at least temporarily, necessitating
consultation with local communities and compensation for loss o f access, crops, trees, and
structures. Development o f roads opens remote areas to a variety o f human activities, some o f
which, such as poaching, illegal logging, and swidden agriculture, result in degradation o f
natural habitat. Well testing generates noise and air emissions. Drillingmuds, heated water with
dissolved gases and contaminants such as heavy metals, sour gases, and decant water from
drilling mud impoundments all have the potential to cause water and air pollution. Water
withdrawal from local streams or wells for drilling can affect other water users and uses.



                                                 70

Inaccuracies in understanding the local hydrogeology (in particular the relationship between
freshwater and geothermal water sources), and poor drilling practices can lead to pollution o f
underground drinking water          aquifers  during construction and operation and after
decommissioning.

Construction

Once a site has been selected for development, more land area will be disturbed, and land will
have to be acquired permanently.         Access will be improved (with sustained potential for
environmental degradation); material hauling will have impacts on local roads traffic and noise
levels; construction wastes will be generated; and the influx o f workers from outside the area
may have environmental and social impacts including conflict with residents, transmission o f
STDs and other diseases, pollution from work camp wastes, interruption o f business activities
and poaching. On the positive side, there will be some opportunities for local employment and
for small businesses, such as food sellers, most o f which will be temporary.         The potential
impacts o f drilling will exist, on a larger scale. Undesirable gases may be discharged into the
atmosphere. Wells for production and for re-injection o f wastewater have the potential to cause
groundwater contamination by allowing fluid from thermal layers to penetrate shallower aquifers
that feed surface streams and meet the water supply needs o f local communities. They must be
constructed with proper casings to prevent leakage from one layer to another. Installation o f the
pipelines that will transport the geothermal fluids and construction o f the utilization plants will
also affect animal and plant life and the surface morphology. The scenic view will be modified.
Construction site safety should be addressed.

Operation

Environmental problems also arise during plant operation. Geothermal fluids (steam or hot
water) usually contain gases such as carbon dioxide (COz), hydrogen sulfide (H2S), ammonia
(NH3),  methane (Cb), and trace amounts o f other gases, as well as dissolved substances whose
concentrations usually increase with temperature. For example, sodium chloride (NaCl), boron
(B), arsenic (As) andmercury (Hg) are a source o fpollution ifdischarged into the environment.
Some geothermal fluids, such as those utilized for district heating inIceland, are freshwaters, but
this is an exception to the rule. The wastewaters from geothermal plants also have a higher
temperature than the environment and therefore constitute a potential thermal pollutant.
Normally only the lower-temperature geothermal waters that are o f drinking-water quality
should be allowed to flow into surface waters, but there are circumstances inwhich the quality o f
the receiving water is already affected by geothermal springs, so that discharges o f lower quality
would have no additional adverse impact. All other geothermal applications require that the
cooled water be injected back into the reservoir. Well casings need to be inspected periodically
so that corrosion that could lead to blowout or contamination o f shallow aquifers can be detected
andmanaged.

Air pollution may become a problem when generating electricity in geothermal power plants.
However, for the same output o f electricity, carbon dioxide emissions from geothermal power
plants range anywhere from zero to only a fraction o f emissions from fossil-burning power
plants, depending on the particular reservoir and its characteristics. Hydrogen sulfide can reach



                                                 71

moderate concentrations inthe steam produced from some geothermal fields. This gas presents a
pollutionproblem because, besides being corrosive, it is easily detected at low concentrations by
humans. Ammonia occurs in small quantities inmany geothermal systems; but, inflashed-steam
geothermal power plants, the ammonia i s oxidized to nitrogen and water as it passes into the
atmosphere.

The noise associated with operating geothermal power plants could be a problem. During the
production phase there is a higher-pitched noise o f steam traveling through pipelines and the
occasional vent discharge. These are normally acceptable. At the power plant the main noise
pollution comes from the cooling tower fans, the steam ejector, andthe turbine 'hum'. The noise
generated in direct heat applications is usually negligible. Noise abatement measures should
achieve either the appropriate international standard or the respective national standards,
whichever is lower.

Inadditionto domestic wastewater and solidwaste producedbytheplant staff, there are solid
wastes such as cooling tower sludge that will require special handling.

Workplace health and safety are important issues to be addressed inenvironmental assessment
and indeveloping operating procedures andguidelines.

Decommissioning and Closure

The scope o f the project EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) should include post-operation
impacts, and the planfor decommissioning and closure should be developed early inthe project.
Community health and safety as well as environmental and social issues need to be taken into
consideration. Potential impacts to be prevented or mitigated include accidents to children that
may play among the facilities; releases o f steam and hot water from failure o f pipes or valves,
with resulting water and air pollution; contamination o f shallow aquifers ifwell casings corrode
and leak; and accumulations o f solid waste and abandoned materials and equipment. The plan
should address the sealing o f wells, the removal and disposal o f production facilities in an
environmentally sensitive manner, the restoration o f the site, and provisions for any ongoing
maintenance issues.

Impacts of Associated Facilities

Transmission lines are a major type o f investment that will be associated with geothermal power
plants. Even when they are going to be developed as separate projects, standard EA practice
requires the impacts o f new or expanded lines to be considered in the EIA for the power plant.
The typical environmental and social impacts are acquisition o f land for tower footings;
restriction o f landuses elsewhere inthe power line right-of-way, involuntary resettlement when a
residence mustbe moved or so much o f a property i s affected that it i s no longer a viable place to
reside, damage to or degradation o f physical cultural property, conversion o f natural habitat,
opening o f access to remote natural areas leading to encroachment and illegal activities, and
visual impacts.




                                               72

IndonesianSafeguardsRequirementsfor GeothermalPower Plants

Indonesian law and regulations for environmental impact assessment (AMDAL) are being
revised. The legal requirement for EA i s specified inArticle 18(1) o f Law Number 23 o f 1997
Concerning Environmental Management: "Every business andor activity that gives rise to a
major and significant impact on the environment must possess an environmental impact analysis
to obtain the license to conduct the business and/or activity." Government Regulation Number
27 o f 1999 Concerning Environmental Impact Assessment describes the procedures for the
preparation, review, approval and public disclosure o f environmental assessments. Article 3 o f
the regulation obliges the Minister o f Environment to specify the types o f businesses that are
likelyto give rise to major and significant impacts. The Minister does this through issuance o f a
Ministerial Decree, the most recent o f which is PerMen 11/2006.       Annex Io f PerMen 11/2006
specifies that projects involving exploitation or development o f geothermal energy o f 55
megawatts or greater require an EIA and calls attention to potential impacts on water, air, flora
and fauna, social and economic activities, and local culture. Annex I1 o f PerMen 11/2006 also
lists the types o f conservation areas within which any proposed project, regardless o f type or
size, must have an EM: conservation forest, peat swamps, aquifer recharge areas, beaches and
riverbanks, areas surrounding lakes and springs, national parks and reserves, marine parks and
reserves, and national parks, tourism parks and forest reserves. The content o f an EIA i s
specified inPerMen 08/2006         Geothermal power projects smaller than 55 MW and not located
in any of the conservation areas would require an environmental management plan and
monitoring plan, the contents o fwhich are specified inKepMen 86/2002.

The AMDAL requirements are generally adequate to address environmental and social
safeguards, but their implementation in various sectors including energy often falls short of the
standardsdesired by the Ministry o f Environment (MOE). Typical problems are: lack o f shared
understanding among developer, EA preparer, and concerned government on the scope o f an
environmental assessment; failure to collect sufficient data and apply analytical techniques so
that impacts can be predicted inquantitative terms; disconnects between EA andproject planning
and licensing, so that permits are issued without regard to EA approval; and weak
implementation of mitigation andmonitoring plans. This project i s not an appropriate vehicle to
correct those systemic problems; MOE has in progress a program o f "AMDAL Reformasi" to
address them, andthe Bank is supporting that work through ESW.

InternationalPracticeinEnvironmentalAssessment of GeothermalPowerProjects

It is possible that investors planningto develop geothermal projects inIndonesiawill be seeking
financing, insurance, or guarantees from bilateral or multilateral development finance agencies,
or commercial banks that subscribe to the Equator Principles. Funding may also be available
from GEF or under various mechanisms based on the Kyoto Protocol, from individual sources or
through carbon off-set financing. To access such financial support, the prospective developer
will want to prepare a proposal that is "bankable" - i.e., that not only complies with national
requirements but i s also consistent with the environmental and social policies and standards o f
the institutions that offer the types of support being sought. Therefore, geothermal investors who
are seeking such international financing options would want to adhere to various standards o f
international good practice to be able to secure such funds. .



                                                  73

There are numerous sources that may be drawn upon as international best practice in meeting
environmental and social obligations when developing geothermal resources. If developers are
considering international financing through public channels, the guidelines from multilateral and
bilateral financiers may serve as usefbl examples.         The World Bank's (IBRD and IDA)
environmental and social guidelines for power generation and transmission may be one such
example, although it does not specifically address geothermal power development.             Other
international financiers such as ADB and JBIC also have similar guidelines that must be
complied with in order to secure their finding. IFC has also just released (April 30, 2007) new
Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines that include specific consideration for geothermal
power generation and on electric power transmission and distribution. All o f these agencies have
policies, performance standards, or guidelines for environmental assessment, and investors who
comply with them are likely to be viewedmore favorably by most international financiers.

Approach to Safeguardsfor the Project

As a technical assistance operation, this project has no direct environmental or social impacts
since it does not directly finance any power projects. Therefore, the project i s classified as
environmental assessment Category C, where an environmental assessment i s not required.
However, one o f its key aims i s to facilitate increased private sector investment in geothermal
power generation projects which will require the developer to comply with the environmental
regulations inIndonesia. Therefore, as a part o f transactions in Component 2, which i s designed
to assist MEMR develop model procedures and processes along with documentation for
transacting   geothermal    power development        investments,  a Guidance      Document on
environmental and social aspects o f geothermal development will be developed and included in
the bidpackage.

Consequently, Component 2, which i s designed to assist MEMR develop model procedures and
processes along with documentation for transacting geothermal power development investments,
will also ensure that environmental and social aspects are covered.           The model bidding
documents will clearly identifythe responsibilities o f the developer to carry out safeguards work
so that developers can sufficiently develop environmental and social mitigation and monitoring
measures as they prepare the EL4 for the project. The model documents will also explain the
review and approval functions o f government agencies and other stakeholders. This will be done
through a guidance document that would be included in the bid package for geothermal power
investors (and will be available for any other agencies responsible for environmental review,
licensing, monitoring and oversight). The objective is to improve the application o f safeguards
in geothermal power investments, both in terms of quality and efficiency.           The Guidance
Document will include:

    (a) guidelines, timelines, and models for compliance with GO1 environmental and social
       requirements, and

    (b) suggestions based on internationalgood practice to enhance the "bankability" o fpotential
       projects for investors intending to make proposed projects suitable for international
        financiers.



                                                 74

Stakeholder Consultations and Disclosure

Disclosure o f the ISDS and PID will be adequate to inform interested stakeholders o f the
safeguards arrangements for the project. Consultation will become important when the guidance
document i s drafted. MEMR will arrange for consultations on the drafts with stakeholders that
will include MOE, environmental NGOs, industry representatives, a sample o f sub-national
environmental and development planning agencies (drawing from areas where geothermal power
development is most likely), and interested bilateral and multilateral development agencies. The
completed guidance document will be made available to the public in Indonesia and in the
Bank's Infoshop.




                                               75

                Annex 11: GovernanceandAccountabilityFramework(GAF)
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATIONDEVELOPMENTPROJECT


1.      The GAF summarizes the actions that have been agreed to and will be undertaken by the
MinistryofEnergyandMineralResources (MEMR) interms o freinforcingproject governance,
enhancing transparency o f project activities, increasing public accountability and reducing
opportunities for corruption, collusion or fraud.         All measures mentioned below will be
incorporated into the Project Management Manual (PMM), which has been developed by the
MEMRto serve as a comprehensive guide to assistwithprojectimplementation.

RiskAnalysis

2.      Overall governance and accountability risk rating for this project is low. This is based on
the fact that the financial aspects o f the major project components consist o f a limitednumber of
consultant contracts, all o f which will be managedby MEMR from Jakarta. There are no works
contracts while goods contracts are minimal (estimated at less than $50,000 o f the overall $4
million project expenditures).    Activities related to training and workshops make up a minor
component, and will be subject to additional checks andbalances as described below.

3.      Social accountability mechanisms have been incorporated as a key part o f the project's
design.    Since the project in large part i s promoting policies and transactions to attract
investments and promote the benefits o f geothermal energy, it contains important public
awareness and engagement components. These are designed to include regular contact with
relevant stakeholders including civil society groups.       It is meant as a channel not only for
information dissemination purposes, but also to obtain feedback from stakeholders so that the
reform solutions can be optimized through an iterative dialogue. Additional governance and
anti-corruption measures that have been included inthe project are described below.

TransparencyandPublicDisclosure

4.      With a view to enhancing public awareness related to the development and provision o f
geothermal energy, the project includes a public engagement component that will be used to
ensure the widespread circulation o f project information to interested parties in the public and
private sectors as well as among civil society groups.        This will include an ongoing policy
dialogue engaging civil society groups with affiliations in the energy sector, such as Bimasena
(the Mines and Energy Society, which include major private/public/non-governmenthesearch
representations), INAGA (Indonesian Geothermal Association, which involves key public,
private and academic stakeholders), and academidresearch entities (that would include the
Bandung Institute o f Technology or ITB) and other civil society groups concerned with
Indonesian policy inthe energy sector. Infact, MEMRhas already begunthe public engagement
campaign with several events during project preparation that were used to confirm the design of
the proposed reformprogram andpublicize their goals for developing the sector.




                                                  76

FinancialManagementMeasures

5.      The financial management measures to mitigate risks are summarized below and are
further detailed in Annex 8:      The Inspector General for the MEMR has formally agreed to
conduct a yearly internal audit o f the project activities. Furthermore, MEMR has also agreed to
an external audit, for which the draft terms o f reference have already been agreed with the Bank.
Additional scrutiny will also be applied to training activities through the implementation o f
additional financial control procedures including the provision o f signed attendance lists for all
training/workshops and third party invoices.        MEMR also plans to enhance their financial
management capabilities by securing specialized consultant assistance.

ProcurementMeasures

6.      The key procurement measures to mitigate risks are summarized below and are further
detailed inAnnex 9: The five major contracts to be awarded under this project will require prior
review by the World Bank. Furthermore, sealed financial bids will be held for safekeeping by
notary publics or a similarly secure institution to be agreed upon with the Bank. MEMR will
also invite external observers from outside government to attend public bid openings as
independent observers. The World Bank has already provided procurement training to MEMR
officials, and the project will support MEMR secure specialized consultant assistance to assist
withprojectprocurement activities.

ComplaintsHandling

7.      InadditiontotheprovisionsallowedinKeppres80providingbiddersa5-dayperiodafter
bid opening to register any complaints regarding the procurement process, the project will also
ensure that a secure email account is established through which any interested individual can,
anonymously or otherwise, seek additional information or register complaints o f any nature
regarding the project.    The email address will be made available on all bidding documents
pertaining to contracts under this project as well as during any events organized under the public
engagement component o f the project. There will be Ministry oversight to ensure that any issues
raised are resolved adequately. This mechanism will be subject to regular supervision by the
World Bank.

Sanctions andRemedies

8.      The Implementing Agency will apply remedial actions and sanctions for cases o f fraud
and corruption that are reported and for which evidence is found. This will include sanctions
against agency staff and/or contractors proven to be involved in such cases. Inall procurement
contracts, evidence o f fraud, corruption, collusion or coercive practices will result intermination
o f the contract with additional penalties imposed in accordance with World Bank and
Government o f Indonesia regulations. Disbursement o f funds to any project activity may be
suspended in cases where there appear to be significant problems and where the Implementing
Agency has not taken appropriate actions to rectify the problems.




                                                 77

Supervision

9.     The Implementing Agency i s expected to review all aspects o f the GAF on an annual
basis and to include a summary o f their findings (including the rationale for any problems
encountered) as part o ftheir regular reports to the World Bank. For its part, the World Bank will
review the GAF as part o f its regular supervision missions. By mutual agreement, the GAF can
bejointly reviewed andrevisedon an annual basis.




                                                 78

                           Annex 12: ProjectPreparationandSupervision
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                        Planned                Actual
PCNreview                                              0612912007             0611812007
Initial PID to PIC                                     May 2007               11/07/2007
Initial ISDSto PIC                                     May 2007               11/07/2007
Appraisal                                             January 2007            12/17/2007
Negotiations                                           02/26/2008             04/18/2008
BoardRVP approval                                      04/29/2008
Planneddate o f effectiveness                          July 2008
Planneddate of mid-term review                       December 2009
Plannedclosing date                                    June 2011

Keyinstitutionsresponsible for preparationo fthe project:

     0    TheNational Development PlanningAgency, BAPPENAS-Directorate for Energy,
          MiningandMineral Resources; and
     0    The Ministryo fEnergyandMineralResources-Directorate for Geothermal Enterprise
          Supervision and Groundwater Management.

Bankstaff and consultants who worked onthe project included:
           Name                                        Title                          Unit
 Migara Jayawardena          Senior Infrastructure EconomisflaskTeam Leader     E A S T E




Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bankresources:           US$215,024.04
     2. Trust funds:             US$ 4,905.70
     3. Total:                   US$215,024.04

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$15,000
     2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost: US$65,000


                                                     79

                          Annex 13: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


BankStaffAssessments

DetailedProject Assessments from Identification, Preparation andPre-AppraisalMissions

World Bank, Country Brief-Indonesia
World Bank (2003), Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia, 2004-2007
World Bank (2006), Electricity for All: Options for Increasing Access inIndonesia
World Bank (2004), Averting an Infrastructure Crisis

Other

APEC (1996), Energy Overview
PEACE (2007), Indonesiaand Climate Change: Current Status and Policies
JICA (2007), Masterplan Study for GeothermalDevelopment inIndonesia
Martinot, E. (2002), Grid-based RenewableEnergy inDeveloping Countries: Policies,
   Strategies, and Lessonsfrom the GEF
IndonesiaGeothermal Association (2004), Geothermal Development inIndonesia
Ministry ofEnergyand Mineral ResourcesIndonesia (2007), Geothermal Investment
   Opportunities inIndonesia




                                             80

                                         Annex 14: Statementof Loansand Credits
          INDONESIA: GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                                                                                 Difference between
                                                                                                                 expected and actual
                                                             Onginal Amount inUS$ Millions                         disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                   IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO79906    2007 ID-STRATEGIC ROADSINFRA                  208.00       0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  208.00     0.00        0.00
PO83742    2007 ID-Farmer Empower.Agric.Tech.&Info         32.80     60.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    93.18    0.00        0.00
PO89479    2006 ID-EarlyChildhoodEducationand Dev           0.00     67.50     0.00       0.00   0.00    69.88    0.01        0.00
PO85375    2006 ID-WSSLIC 111(co-TTL=Claudia Rokx)          0.00    137.50     0.00       0.00   0.00  138.32     4.48        0.00
PO77175    2006 ID-DomesticGas MarketDevelopment           80.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    68.73    5.40        0.00
                Proj.
PO76174    2005 ID-Initiatives for Local Govern.Reform     14.50     15.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    38.29   12.33        0.00
PO78070    2005 Support for Poor and Disadvantaged         69.00     35.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  102.29    14.02        0.00
                Areas
PO84583    2005 ID-UPP3                                    67.30     71.40     0.00       0.00   0.00    78.74  -26.67        0.00
PO71296    2005 ID-USDRP                                   45.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    42.76    0.71        0.00
PO85133    2005 Govt Fin1Mgt & Revenue Admin Project       55.00      5.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    55.07   20.14        0.00
PO85374    2005 ID-HIGHER EDUCATION                        50.00     30.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    68.71    9.49        0.00
PO92019    2005 KecamatanDevelopmentProject3B              80.00     80.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    59.70    9.78        0.00
PO84860    2004 ID-PCF-IndocementCement                     0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    10.73    0.00        0.00
PO74290    2004 ID-E. INDREGTRANSPT 2                    200.00       0.00     0.00       0.00   1.oo  159.19    90.86        0.00
PO64728    2004 ID-LAND MANAGEMENT &POLICY                 32.80     32.80     0.00       0.00   0.16    44.62    9.48        0.00
                DEVT PROJECT
PO71316    2004 ID - Coral ReefRehab and Mgmt Prog I1      33.20     23.00     0.00       0.00   0.17    44.51   10.91        0.00
PO71318    2004 ID Coral ReefRehabandManagementI1
                   -                                        0.00      0.00     0.00       7.50   0.00     6.89    2.55        0.00
PO59931    2003 ID-WaterResources & 1rr.SectorMgt          45.00     25.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    64.51   59.01       11.22
                Prog
PO63913    2003 ID-Java-BaliP m Sector & Strength        141.00       0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  115.10    98.68        7.35
PO79156    2003 ID Third KecamatanDevelopmentProject     204.30      45.50     0.00       0.00   0.00     2.29   -8.62        0.00
PO76271    2003 ID-PPITA                                   17.10      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00     4.52    4.52        1.16
PO73772    2003 ID-HealthWorkforce & Services (PHP 3)      31.10     74.50     0.00       0.00   0.00    74.41   50.09       -3.50
PO73970    2002 ID-GLOBAL DEV LEARNING (LIL)                2.66      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00     1.30    1.30        0.00
PO72852    2002 ID-UPP2                                    29.50     70.50     0.00       0.00   0.00     4.37  -16.07        0.00
PO73025    2001 ID-SECONDKECAMATAN                       208.90    111.30      0.00       0.00   0.00     5.79   -8.88        0.00
                DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PO49539    2001 ID-PROVINCIALHEALTH I1                     63.20     40.00     0.00       0.00  32.00     1.40   27.13        0.00
PO59477    2000 ID-WSSLIC I1(co-TTL=Claudia Rob)            0.00     77.40     0.00       0.00  0.00     18.92   11.87        0.00
PO49545    2000 ID-PROVINCIALHEALTH I                       0.00     38.00     0.00       0.00  3.17      7.72    8.19        8.19
PO45337    1998 ID-KECAMATAN DEV FUND                    225.00       0.00     0.00       0.00  11.03  125.20   -37.41        0.00

                                                  Total: 1,935.36 1,039.40     0.00       7.50  47.53  1,715.14 353.30       24.42




                                                                 81

                                      INDONESIA
                                 STATEMENTOF IFC's
                               HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                 InMillionsofUSDollars
                                      Committed                     Disbursed
                                     IFC                          IFC
FY Approval Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic. Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic.

2006        BankDanamon      155.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00
2004        BonaVista School 1.oo      0.00  0.00    0.00    1.oo  0.00     0.00   0.00
2006        BuanaBank        5.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2006        Centralpertiwi   45.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2004        MedanNP School   1.75      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002        P.T. Gawi        11.05     0.00  0.00    3.49    4.90   0.00    0.00   3.49
1989        PT Agro Muko     0.00      2.20  0.00    0.00    0.00   2.20    0.00   0.00
1997        PT Alumindo      2.73      0.00  0.00    0.00    2.73   0.00    0.00   0.00
1989        PT Astra         0.00      0.20  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.20    0.00   0.00
1994        PT Astra         0.00      0.19  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.19    0.00   0.00
2003        PT Astra         0.00      0.12  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.12    0.00   0.00
            PT Astra Otopart 0.00      0.70  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.70    0.00   0.00
2005        PT Astra Otopart 24.00     0.00  0.00    0.00   24.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000        PT Bank NISP     0.00      2.85  2.86    0.00    0.00  2.85     2.83   0.00
2002        PT Bank NISP     0.00     2.04   0.00    0.00    0.00  2.04     0.00   0.00
2004        PT Bank NISP     35.00     0.00  0.00    0.00   35.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997        PT Berlian       0.00      3.35  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1993        PT Bina Danatama 0.05     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.05  0.00     0.00   0.00
1996        PT Bina Danatama 0.00     0.00   2.58    4.81    0.00  0.00     2.58   4.81
2004        PT Ecogreen      30.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   30.00  0.00     0.00   0.00
2005        PT Ecogreen      25.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   20.00  0.00     0.00   0.00
            PT Grahawita     0.00     0.00   3.75    0.00    0.00  0.00     3.75   0.00
1991        PT Indo-Rama     0.00      3.82  0.00    0.00    0.00   3.82    0.00   0.00
1995        PT Indo-Ram      0.00      1.57  0.00    0.00    0.00   1.57    0.00   0.00
1999        PT Indo-Ram      0.00     0.81   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.81     0.00   0.00
2001        PT Indo-Rama     20.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.33  0.00     0.00   0.00
2004        PT Indo-Rama     48.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   41.00  0.00     0.00   0.00
1992        PT KIA Keramik   0.23     0.00   0.00    2.00    0.23  0.00     0.00  2.00
1996        PT KIA Keramik   1.65     0.00   0.00   53.49    1.65  0.00     0.00  53.49
1995        PT KIA Serpih    4.50     0.00   0.00   49.50    4.50  0.00     0.00  49.50
1997        PT Kalimantan    9.38     0.00   0.00    0.00    9.38  0.00     0.00  0.00
            PT Karunia (KAS) 16.45    0.00   0.00    3.56   16.45  0.00     0.00   3.56
2006        PT Karunia (KAS) 20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00  0.00     0.00  0.00
            PT Makro         0.00     2.34   0.00   0.00     0.00  2.34     0.00  0.00
2000        PT M a k o       0.00      1.21  0.00   0.00     0.00  0.71     0.00  0.00
2006        PT Makro         0.00     0.66   0.00   0.00     0.00  0.66     0.00  0.00
1998        PT Megaplast     0.00     2.50   0.00   0.00     0.00  2.50     0.00  0.00
1993        PT Nusantara     0.00     0.00   10.16  7.90     0.00  0.00    10.16  7.90
2004        PT Prakars (PAS) 15.36    0.00   0.00   3.20    15.36  0.00     0.00  3.20
1997        PT Sayap         0.83     0.00   0.00   0.00     0.83  0.00     0.00  0.00
2001        PT Sigma         0.00     1.03   0.00   0.00     0.00   1.03    0.00  0.00

                                            Committed                          Disbursed
                                          IFC                                IFC
FY Approval Company              Loan     Equity   Quasi  Partic.   Loan    Equity   Quasi    Partic

2006        PT TAS               7.00        0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1995        PT Viscose           7.81        0.00    0.00   0.00      7.81     0.00    0.00    0.00
2004        PT Viscose           8.3 1       0.00    0.00   0.00       8.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997        PT Wings             0.72        0.00    0.00   0.00      0.72     0.00    0.00    0.00
2001        Sunson               11.62       0.00    0.00   7.35      11.62    0.00    0.00    7.35
2005        WOM                  0.00      15.82     0.00   0.00      0.00    15.74    0.00    0.00
2006        WOM                  20.00       0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
2004        Wilmar               33.33       0.00    0.00   0.00     33.33     0.00    0.00    0.00
               Total portfolio:   88.79    15.82     0.00   7.35      61.79   15.74    0.00    7.35




                                                         Approvals PendingCommitment

     FY Approval    Company                          Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.
     2005           BankNISP SELF                  0.03          0.00       0.00       0.00
     2006           BankNISP Swap                  0.00          0.00       0.00       0.00
     2006           Orix Indonesia                 0.08          0.00       0.00       0.00

                          Total pendingcommitment:    0.11       0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                  83

                                              Annex 15: Country at a Glance
INDONESIA: GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                         Indonesia at a dance                                                                               9/28/07

                                                                               East    Lower.
  POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                         h i 88     mlddle-
                                                             Indonesia     Pacific     Illcome     Development diamond.
  2006
  Population.mid-year (millms)                                    223.0      1,900        2,276
  GNI PW capita (Atlas method, US$)                               1,420      1,863        2,037                    Life expectancy
  GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                 316.7      3,539        4,635                           -
  Average annual growth, 200046
  Population(Om)                                                     1.3        0.9         0.9
  Laborforce I%)                                                     1.9        1.3         1.4    GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                   per                                     primary
  Most recent estimate (latestyear available,2000.08)                                              capita                                enrollment
  Poverly (% ofpopulationM o w nationalpoveftyline)                  18
  Uban population(Om oitotalpcpulation)                              49          42         47
  Lifeexpectancy at birth(years)                                     68          71         71                            1
  Infant mortality(per 1,000livebirths)                              28          26         31
  Childmalnubition (% of children under5)                            28          15          13           Access to improvedwater source
  Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpcpulation)                  77          79         81
  Literacy(% ofpwulation age 15+)                                    90          91         89
  Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschd-ape m l a t m )                  117         114         113         -lndonesia
     Male                                                           I19         115         117                Lower-middle-incomeQ ~ W D
     Female                                                         115         113         114

  KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                       1986        1996       2005        200%     Eeonomleratios'
  GDP (US$ billions)                                   80.1       227.4      287.0        364.8
  Grosscapital fmtion/GDP                              29.5        30.7        24.8        24.6
  WortsofgoodsandservidGDP                              19.5       25.8        33.6        30.9                         Trade
  Grossdomestic savingslGDP                            28.5        30.1        28.9        29.4
  Grossnational savinadGDP                             23.8        27.8        25.7        26.4                           T
  Currentacccuntbalance/GDP                             4.9        -3.4         0.1         2.7
  Interest paymenWGDP                                    3.0        2.2         1.1         1.3    Domestic                             Capital
  Total debVGDP                                        53.6        56.7       48.2         35.3    savings                              fonnation
  Total debt service/exports                           37.3        36.6        16.8        22.3
  Presentvalue of debVGDP                                                     48.3
  Presentvalue of debffexpwts                                                129.0
                                                                                                                    Indebtedness
                                         196596    199646         2005       2008     2008-10
  (average annualgrowth)                                                                                 -
  GDP                                         7.9        2.7        5.7         5.5         6.5                 Indonesia
  GDP per capita                              6.1        1.3        4.3         4.3         5.3                 Lower-middle-incomeQfOUD
  Exporkof goodsandservices                   9.1        3.8       16.4         9.2         8.3


  STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                       1986       1996       2005         2006
  (% of GDP)                                                                                      Growthof capltal and GDP (K)

  Agriculture                                          24.2        16.7        13.1        12.9   20 I


  Industry                                             33.7        43.5       46.8         47.0    10
    Manufacturing                                      16.7        25.6       27.7         28.0
  Services                                             42.0        39.9       40.2        40.1     0

  Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                50.4        62.4       63.0         62.0   -101
  Generalgov'tfinal consumptionexpenditure             11.0         7.6         8.1         8.6
  Imports of goodsand services                         20.5        26.4       29.3        26.1                 -GCF             II.O'GDP



                                                   1986-36     1996.06       2005         2006
  (average annualQrowfh)                                                                         IGrowth of exports   and imports(K)              I
  Agriculture                                            3.3        2.5         2.7         3.0   30

  Industry                                               9.9        2.4         4.7         4.7   20
    Manufacturing                                      11.2         3.5         4.6         4.6
  Services                                               8.1        3.2         7.9         7.2   10


  Household final consumptionexpenditure                 7.7        3.1         3.5         5.0    0

  Generalgob4 final consumptionexpenditure               4.3       4.9          6.6         9.6  -10
  Grosscapitalformation                                10.6        -1.3         8.4         1.4             -Exports          II.O'lmportS
  Imports of goods and services

  Note:2006 data are preliminary estimates,
  This table was producedfromthe DevelopmentEconomics LDB database.
  * The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country(in bold) comparedwith its incomegroupaverage. If data are missing.the diamond will




                                                                        84

                                                                                                                              Indonesia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                               1986        1996    2005     2006
Domesticprices                                                                           Inflation(%)

(% change)
Consumer prices                                   5.8       8.0      10.5    13.1
Implicit GDP deflator                            -0.1       8.9      14.8    13.6
                                                                                                                                         ffil
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 15.9        16.5     17.8    19.1      1I         01       02     03       04     05
Current budget balance                           -4.6       8.0      6 2      7.6                  ---GDP        deflator -+-CPI
Overall surpluddeficit                           -3.5       3.0      -0.5     -0.9

TRADE
                                               1986        1996    2005     2006
(US$millions)                                                                            Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                 ..   49.815   86,995  103,514        125.000 7
  Fuel                                              ..   12.861   23,717   27,619
  Estate crop                                       ..    3,998    4,918    5,483        100,000 i
  Manufactures                                           10,795   14,402   17,190        75 000
Total imports (cif)                                 .... 42,929   69.462   73,868        50 000
  Food                                              ..    3,931    3,888    4,709
  Fuel and energy                                   ..    3,670   17,429   19,028        25 000
                                                                                      I                                                    I
  Capital goods                                     ..   17,497   15,262    4,877             0

Export price index (2000=100)                       ..       80      140      167                 00     01     02   03     04    05   06

import price index (2000=100)                       ..      128      207      220                     t8 Exports        rnImports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                                    63       68       76

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1986       1996     2005     2006
(US$millions)                                                                            Current account balanceto GDP (%)                 1
Exports of goods and services                15,240     56.787    99,760  115,032
Imports of goods and services                16,194     59,379    91,319  95,493
Resource balance                              -1.908     -5,184    8,441   19,539

Net income                                    -6,432     -6,008  -12,927  -14,465
Net current transfers                            259        937    4,793   4,863

Current account balance                       -3,911     -7,663      307   9,937

Financing items (net)                          1,904    16,668      -970   -3,035
Changes in net reserves                        2,007     -9,005      663   -6,902     1       00     01     02    03      04    05    05   I
Memo:
Resetves including gold (US$millions)          4,814    19,281   36,181   43,083
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)              1,282.6 2,342.3     9,705.0  9,151.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                               1986       1996     2005     2006
(US$ millions)                                                                        1 Composition of     2005 debt (US$mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed         42,916 128,937      138,300  128,917
  IBRD                                        5,058     11,138     8,132   7,423      I                         A 8,132
  IDA                                           857         736    1,001   1,318    I                                    B 1,001
                                                                                                   24500
Total debt service                            5,984     21,543    18,045  27,345
  IBRD                                          636       2,249    1,871   1,827
  IDA                                             12         26       36       37

Compositionof net resource flows
  Official grants                                136        190      998
  Official creditors                           1,016      -792      -611
  Private creditors                             528       6,869    1,485                                                        i:40,518
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)        258       6,194    5,260
  Portfolioequity (net inflows)                    0      1,819    -165

World Bank program
  Commitments                                   982       1,194    1,027     105   ;A-iBRD                                    E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                 828        905      652    1,012         8 IDA
                                                                                           -         D- Other multilateral    F Pnvate
                                                                                                                                --
  Principal repayments                          236       1,429    1,417   1,430                                              G- Short-tern
  Net flows                                     592       -523     -765     -418
  Interest payments                             411        846      489      434
  Net transfers                                 180      -1,370   -1,254    -852


Note: This table was producedfrom the Development EconomicsLDBdatabase.                                                            9/28/07




                                                                85

                               Annex 16: IncrementalCost Analysis
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMALPOWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


1.      The Business-as-UsualScenario

Indonesia has the largest estimated geothermal power potential in the world with about 27,000
M W e o f estimated resources. Yet, the exploitationand utilization o f geothermal energy has been
slow to develop and currently face a number o f challenges. Over a span o f 20 years, Indonesia
was only able to develop 970 MW o f geothermal power as of 2007, or less than 4 percent o f the
total potential. InOctober 2003, the Geothermal Law (Law No. 27/2003) was passed to provide
a legislative basis for geothermal resource development in Indonesia. According to this law, all
geothermal resources will be controlled by the state and any sites for development will be
defined and then tendered to business entities by the central or local government authorities in
accordance with their respective jurisdictions. An exception was made for those geothermal
field development contracts awarded to private sectors under the PD45/1991 regime, while for
geothermal fields allocated without contracts to the SOE during the PD45/1991 regime, a
specific agreement between Go1 and the SOE (Pertamina and PLN) was made to determine a
deadline in which Go1 can take possession o f these fields should there be no development.
These geothermal fields with a total o f about 5,000 MW, including970 MW presently already
installed production and nearly 3,000 MW proven reserves which can be developed quickly if
investments can be mobilized. The remaining fields, with a total potential o f about 22,000 MW
are unproven resources with different degree o f resources knowledge (Annex 1) and will be
tendered under the supervision o f the government in accordance with the Geothermal Law. In
2004, the Government consolidated all o f this information into a geothermal resource
development road map aimed at planning and further promoting the utilization o f geothermal
resources up to 2020 (Table A15.1). According to the Road Map, the total installed capacity o f
geothermal power generation in Indonesia i s expected to progressively increase to reach 6,000
MWby 2020.




  Source: Indonesia GeothermalDevelopment RoadMap (2004-2020)


To achieve these targets, the government's strategy is (i) speed-up the development o f the
                                                             to
geothermal fields allocated under PD45/1991 regime, and at the same time (ii)        to build the
necessary capacity for the fiture development o f additional geothermal fields inaccordance with
the new Geothermal Law. Progress towards the targets, however, has been very slow due to
major gaps inthe current policy framework, which does not provide any economic incentives for
current operators to expand generation capacity.      Nor does it include certain upstream risk
mitigation instrument to facilitate the tendering o f new fields.     The Geothermal Law only
provided the principles for geothermal resources management and is not operational without



                                                86

detailed implementation rules and regulations, leaving many a regulatory uncertainty for
potential investors. Moreover, the national government, with its two-year old special sector
management unit, the Directorate o f Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Ground Water
Management (DGESGWM) in the MEMR, and the local governments, with its recently gained
rights to geothermal development, has little experience and no track record o f conducting
competitive tendering. These problems have seriously dampened the prospect for geothermal
power development proposed by the Geothermal Road Map. Recent estimates indicate that the
existing investors/operators have been unable to develop many o f the fields awarded to them
(under the PD45/1991), and that only around 300 MW o f new geothermal power generation
capacity i s expected to be commissionedby 2008. This is about 75% short o f the target o f about
1,190 additional MW o f capacity indicated in the Geothermal Road Map. The inability to
develop already proven fields is likely cast doubt on future exploration as well.

Without significant additional efforts to overcome the key barriers outlined above (detailed
description in Section 1.A o f the Project Appraisal Document), Indonesiawill find it challenging
to even expand the generation capacity in the geothermal fields already partially developed.
There would be neither firm economic incentive policies nor concrete upstream risk mitigation
measures to promote geothermal power investments.          There would be no standard bidding
documents and transparent transaction processes to speed up the tenderingo f new projects. The
national capability for regulating, developing and operating geothermal power generation
facilities along with related businesses would improve but at a slower pace than presently
planned by the Government.         As a result, a business environment conducive to private
participation in geothermal resource development would not develop quickly, hindering the
sustainable development o f the geothermal energy business inthe country in line with the 2003
Geothermal Law.       Therefore, the Baseline Scenario assumes a gradual ramping up o f the
geothermal power generation in the partially developed fields with no development in
unexplored "green" fields. This would amount to about 2,000 MW o f total additional power by
2020 for a total o f around 2,800 MW installed capacity, less thanhalfo f the 6,000 MW target set
by the Government. The shortfall in expected geothermal power capacity would translate into
the development o f around 3,200 MW o f additional coal-fired power plants, the least cost
expansion option without consideringglobal environmental benefits.

The Go1i s hlly aware o f the barriers and the consequences o f not addressing them immediately.
It has requested a technical assistance from the World Bank to specifically help develop and
implement concrete economic incentive and risk mitigation mechanisms and strengthen the
government's capacity to manage and support geothermal investment transactions.

2.       The ProposedProjectandthe GlobalEnvironmentalBenefits

Incontrast to the Baseline Scenario, GEF incremental cost financing support for barrierremoval
will break the major constraints on geothermal power investment and lead to an accelerated
development o f geothermal resources inIndonesia. With an enablingpolicy framework inplace,
successfully demonstrated transactions procedures, and strengthened government capacity to
support sector growth, it is expected that Indonesia will be able to quickly take advantage o f its
sizable geothermal power potential (up to 2.3 GW) in the fields already partially developed or
with confirmed reserves and effectively tapping into its large pool o f economically viable



                                                87

geothermal fields (up to 10 GW). Therefore, the GEF alternative scenario assumes a fast
scaling-up o f installed geothermal power capacity and that GoI's goal o f developing 6,000 MW
geothermal power by 2020 is attainable. Consequently, Indonesia would have 3,200 MW more
geothermal power generation capacity than under the baseline scenario, replacing an equivalent
amount o f coal-fired capacity. Additionally, the mechanisms institutedthrough the GEF project
would be available to facilitate the development o fthe remainingresources beyond 2020.



                                                            2006        2008           2011         2020
         Business as Usual Scenario (MW)                       807         1,100         1,380         2,800
         GEFAlternative Scenario (MW)                          807         1,100         1,730         6,000



The proposedproject is expected to directly leverage private and/or public investments inabout
350 MW installed geothermal power capacity by assisting the transactions o f these investments
to reach financial closures by the time o f project completion in 2011. The expected incremental
global environment benefits will be 60 million tons o f avoided C 0 2 emissions (over the lifecycle
o f geothermal power plants) directly resulted from the incremental installed geothermal power
capacity achieved at the completion o f the project. The long-term benefits are expected to be
much larger, in the order o f 500 million tons o f avoided C 0 2 emissions over the life-cycles of
the incrementalgeothermal power capacity by 2020.

3.       Incremental Costs and GEFRole

                                  Table 3: Value addedbyInvolvingthe GEF

    Area of                      Businessas Usual                     GEFAlternative            GEFIncrement
   Assistance
Policy framework   Government, mostly working on its own,         With strong international   Economic
development        adoptspiecemeal approach to policy             assistance Government       incentive policy
                   development. This would leadto (i)             adopts integrated           implemented
                   delaying o f the formulation and               approach to develop an
                   implementation o f the economic incentive      enabling policy             Upstreamrisk
                   policy (incremental cost bridging              framework which both        mitigation
                   mechanism), discouraging existing              provides impetus            mechanism
                   investor/operator's desire to expand           (incremental cost           introduced
                   generation capacity; (ii)prolonged track to    bridging mechanism) for
                   developing proper upstream mitigation          immediate expansion o f     Implementation
                   instruments, dampening investors' interest in generation capacity in       rules and
                   developing new geothermal power projects;      low-risk fields and lays a  regulations o f the
                   and (iii)further postponing o f the issuance   solid foundation (through   Geothermal Law
                   o f the ImplementationRules and                upstream riskmitigation     promulgated
                   Regulations o fthe GeothermalLaw, leaving      instrumentand
                   many regulatory uncertainties unresolved      regulatory clarity) for
                   andundermining investor confidence.            sustained growth.
Cost estimate      Go1budget o f US$2,500,000 over three          Go1budget o f               Proposed GEF
                   years                                         US$2,500,000 over three      incrementalcost
                                                                 years                        financing o f
                                                                                              US$1,100,000 over
                                                                 International assistance     three years
                                                                 cost o f US$l, 100,000
                                                                 over three years


                                                         88

    Area of
   Assistance             Businessas Usual                       GEFAlternative              GEFIncrement
 Geothermal    Government is able to mobilize some      With a concrete enabling policy    Financial closure on
 investment    investment inexpanding power             framework shaping up and with      a group o fexpansion
 transactions  generation ina few operating fields      hands-on international assistance, project on operating
               through its "team tariff" measure        Government will be able to         fields, resulting inat
               which is currently being developed.      achieve financial closure on a     least an additional
               Government will not be able to tender    group o f expansion projects in    300 MW o f installed
               new geothermal fields successfully       operating geothermal fields,       capacity over three
               because o fthe lack o f concrete policy  develop modelprocedures and        years
               support inincremental cost bridging      standard documents and builda
               and risk mitigationand the lack o f      credible transaction process, and  Modeltransaction
               credible transaction management          successfully tender a large new    procedures and
               procedures and insufficient capacity.    geothermal field to new investors. standard documents
                                                                                           for tendering new
                                                                                           geothermal field

                                                                                           Financial closure on
                                                                                           investment inat least
                                                                                           55 M W installed
                                                                                           capacity ina new
                                                                                           geothermal field
 Cost estimate Government budget o fUS$l,OOO,OOO        Government budget o f              ProposedGEF
               over three years                         US$l,OOO,OOO over three years      incremental cost
                                                                                           financing o f
                                                        International assistancecost o f   US$2,350,000 over
                                                        US$2,350,000 over three years      three years
 Technical     The capacity o f concerned national      Rapid improvement o f              Improved
 capacity      government agency and local              government capacity to handle      transaction skills and
 building      government to conduct geothermal         geothermal investment              efficiency o f
               investment transaction will be slow to   transactions through on-the-job    concerned
               develop; stakeholder engagement will     training alongside the actual      government agencies
               be lacking; and attentionto domestic     transactions conducted through     and officials
               participationwill be limiteddue to       the project as well as tailored
               strained government capacity             special training; stakeholder      Improved
                                                        engagementbroadened through        stakeholder
                                                        awarenessprogram, and strategy     understanding o f
                                                        for domestic participation in      sector policies and
                                                        sector development is formulated   investment
                                                                                           opportunities

                                                                                           National strategy on
                                                                                           geothermal
                                                                                           technology
                                                                                           development
                                                                                           formulated
               Government budget US$1,300,000           Government budget                  ProposedGEF
~Cost estimate
               over three years                         US$1,300,000 over three years      incrementalcost
                                                                                           financing o f
                                                        [nternational assistancecost       US$350,000 over
                                                        US$350,000 over three years        three years
 Cost estimate Government budget US$4,800,000           Government budget                  Proposed GEF
 subtotal      over three years                         US$4,800,000 over three years      incremental cost
                                                                                           financing o f
                                                        Internationalassistance cost       US$3,800,000 over
                                                        US$3,800,000 over three years      three years


                                                      89

Including a proposed fundingo f US$200,000 (with additional US$200,000 in-kindfrom GoI) for
project management, monitoring and reporting, the over all proposed GEF incremental cost
financing is US$4,000,000.      Considering the global environment benefit achieved through
incremental geothermal power generation directly leveraged by the proposed project at
implementation completion, the (undiscounted) cost effectiveness o f the GEF incremental cost
financing i s about US$O.O7/ton C 0 2 abated. The overall cost-effectiveness o f mitigated C02
emissions, consideringlevelizedcost o f energy, i s estimated at US$12/ton-C02 abated.

4.     AssumptionsandMethodologyfor EstimatingIncrementalBenefitsandCost

The global environment benefit is assessment based on comparison o f geothermal power
generation, using prevailing technology in Indonesia, with coal-fired power generation, using
300 to 600 MW units with electrostatic precipitators and standard wet-process sulfur scrubbers.
The following assumptions are used in calculation o f C02 emissions and incremental cost
(geothermal vs. coal-fired):

Geothermalplants:

       Capacity factor                  80%
       Lifecycle                        30 years

Coal-fired plants:

       Capacity factor                  75%
       Lifecycle                        30 years
       C 0 2 emission factor            800 kg/MWh

Details on cost calculations and additional assumptions are available inAnnex 4




                                                    90

                                 Annex 17: STAP Roster Review
  INDONESIA: GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


The following comments were provided by STAP Roster Reviewer Jayant Sathaye, Senior Staff
Scientist, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA. The response to each comment i s
inserted immediately after the comment inboldItalic font.



   WORLD BANKINDONESIA GEOTHERMAL             POWERGENERATION       DEVELOPMENT      PROJECT:

                                      Review and Comments



                                          Jayant Sathaye

                                         25 November 2007

Summary and Conclusion

The goal o f this project i s to promote geothermal energy development in Indonesia as an
alternative to the development of coal power plants. This will help reduce emissions o f
particulates and sulhr and nitrogen oxides, and carbon dioxide, which i s a major contributor to
climate change. Indonesia possesses significant geothermal resources but its exploitation is
hampered because o f the lack o f capacity inproject development and also lack o f ready access to
investment inthis resource. The project aims to address bothissues.

The technical problems identified by the World Bank are familiar and widespread in many
electricity generation companies in developing countries. Lack o f knowledge about the design
and implementation o f new generation technologies particularly renewable ones is not
uncommon. The project thus provides a viable platform for improving Indonesia's capability in
this sector. It is technically feasible and manageable and reflects priorities that will have both
local and global benefits. It will also enhance the credibility o f geothermal energy as a
developable resource inIndonesia andother countries.

In summary, this project is well suited to provide tangible sustainable development benefits in
the power generation sector inIndonesia. .

General andspecific comments byparagraph are noted inthe sections below.

General Comments

The project is aimed at improving the exploitation o f brownfield and greenfield geothermal
energy resources. The proposed project will build capacity for project design and
implementation, and increase access to investment inthis sector. The project goals are not tied to


                                               91

an IBRD loan since that might delay the development o f geothermal resources in the country.
While this i s acceptable, it i s important that the project activities be closely tied to some ongoing
investmentprogram ingeothermal energy. This would enable the project to demonstrate tangible
benefits o f capacity buildingthat otherwise mightbe difficult to track andverify.

Response: The proposed project is indeed closely tied to actual investments in geothermal
power development by investors and project developers. This is supported by Component 2 of
the proposed project which will assist GoI undertake actual investment transactions and
leverage in excess of 350 M W of geothermal power generation capacity (at least 300 M W
brownfields and at least 50 M W greenfields).            More importantly, the policies and model
transaction procedures developed and implemented in the proposed project will continue to
progressively catalyze up to 3,200 M W incremental geothermal power capacity by 2020.
Paragraph 19in the revisedPAD better reflects these linkages.

The project appraisal document (PAD) does not provide a description o f Indonesia's geothermal
resource and the technologies that will be used inbrownfield and greenfield projects to exploit
the resources. A description o f the steam or hot water temperature, field depth, level o f
impurities, types o f turbines used to extract energy, etc. will help the reader to relate the costs
with resource size and efficiency estimates.

Response: The Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA) has sponsored a
comprehensive geothermal resources assessment of Indonesia for the preparation of GoI's
Master Plan for Geothermal Power Development. The interim JICA report, which contained
detailed data and information of 51geothermalfields with a total estimated capacity of 13, 824
MW, provided the basisfor the cost and technical evaluation of geothermalpower investments
during thepreparation of the proposedproject. The JICA report and the cost analysis report
are in theproject file (Annex 12 of PAD)

Geothermal electricity generation typically releases some greenhouse gases, particularly carbon
dioxide. Admittedly, these are relatively small compared to those from the major alternative, coal
power plants, but need to be accounted for inthe document. For instance, a survey o f geothermal
facilities inseveral countries concluded that the carbon dioxide coefficient was 122 g/kWh.20

Response: The relatively smaller emissionsfrom geothermal plants is already reflected in the
estimation of avoided C02 emissions.

Specific Comments

Iwouldliketosuggestthefollowingspecificconsiderationstoimprovevarioussectionsofthe
maintext, and appendices.

Section A. Strategy Context and Rationale
   -    Para (P).3 What were the lower tariff levels? Can you provide a range?




                                                   92

Response: The original targfs rangedfrom 7-9 US cents and they were renegotiated to around
5 US cents.
    -  P. 5 It would be useful to provide information on the range o f geothermal andcoal power
       plant costs inIndonesia.

Response: Both geothermal and coal capital cost estimates are indicated in the economimc
andfinancial analysis section (Annex 4). Further underlying assumptions are onproject file
in the study by Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA).

SectionB: ProjectDescription
    -  P.6-C1.1 Please list the types o f preliminary alternative policy and technology options
       that MEMRcould choose from. Will R&Dbe one o f the options?

Response: Alternative policy options that were consideredduring project preparation are
describedin Section5 ofthe PAD. In terms of technologychoice, it is optimallydetermined
by the developerswho will be makingthe investmentrather than beingpredeterminedby
the Government. Therefore, the MEMR, b design, would not want to pre-specify a
technical solution, and instead provide developerswith the latitude to evaluate each field
anddeterminedthe most suitableandleastcost technologicaloption.

    -  P.6-C 1.2 Please list the countries with geothermal resources that you are referring to here
       andalso list the types ofoptions that they have or are takinginto consideration.

Resvonse: this is summarized in Paragraph 29 as well as Annex 4 of the PAD.

Annex 1. CountryandSector Background:
    -  P.20 - Iam somewhat surprised that Indonesia has extensive geothermal resources but
       the resource is not cost-effective enough to generate electricity when compared with coal
       powered generation. In California, geothermal has traditionally out-competed other
       baseload resources. Here it would be good to add more background on technologies,
       quality o f resource base, and the cost o f generating electricity relative to other locations
       worldwide.

Response: the costs are higher in Indonesia in largepart due to thefact that most geothermal
power components have to be importedfrom industrialized countries and have limited related
human resources, while new coal-fired plants using Chinese technologies are significantly
cheaper than similar plants relying on technologiesfrom industrialized countries, such as
Japan.

Annex 4. Resultsof ProjectAnalysis
    -  P.28 - The three basic approaches for estimating local pollution damage costs are
       appropriate. However, the SO2 and N O x costs in the U S were to a large extent driven
       down by the increased availability o f low sulfkr coal and not as much due to
       technological improvement. A similar situation could arise inIndonesia iflow sulfur coal
       is utilized as an alternative source o f coal. This should be noted either in the text or as a



                                                 93

       footnote so that the reader i s aware o f the source o f the costs and also its implications for
       the Indonesia situation.

Response: Footnote added in Annex 4.

    -  P.29 - Please make a note in the text that scrubber and precipitator costs are included.
       How much do they add to the power plant investment cost? I s the coal only 60% carbon
       because of large ash content? I s the coal washed?

Resuonse: The assumptions table for coal fired thermal power plants in Annex 4 already
indicates the environmental control considerationsand reflects its associated costs. The cost of
ESP adds 2-3% to the power plant investment and the cost of FGD adds another 3-4%. I n
general Indonesian coal has very lower sulfur (less than 0.5%) and FGD is normally not
needed and is not included in the investmentforpowerplant in theproject analysis. The 60%
carbon content is based on coal chemistry analysis data from PLN, the national power
company. Theash content of Indonesia coal is low, too, and coal washing is not necessary.

    -  P. 35 -Apparently there is no electricity shortage inIndonesiatoday. Mightthere be one
       inthe future? Wouldthis helpinmakinga stronger case for geothermal?

Response: the Java-Bali power grid, accounting for 75% of installed power generation
capacity in all of Indonesia, is already under pressure with deteriorating reserve margin in
recent years, forcing PLN to undertake a crash program of building 10 GW new coal-fired
plants by 2009.     This indeed makes a stronger case for accelerating geothermal power
development and is reflected in the main text as well as the annexes.

Annex 7. ImplementationArrangement

    -  P.57-60 - Project implementation needs to be tied to actual projects that are being or will
       be implemented shortly. This will allow a closer link to be established betweenproposed
       project activities andthe expected results from the project.

Response: the proposed project will involve actual transactions of investment in at least 350
M W of geothermal power capacity.

Appendix 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues:
   -   Page 73, Operation paragraph - Need to report pollutant emissions from Indonesian
       geothermal plants, and if none are available, this project needs to provide indicative
       measurements o fthe values or use IPCC default factors for these.

Response: the suggestion will be considered as part of the Component 2 activities to develop
environmental and social guidance document to assist geothermal power investors and
agencies in complying with Indonesian requirements.




                                                  94

Appendix 11: Incrementalcost analysis:
   -  Page 90 - Are the capacity factors andpollutant emissions factors based on experience to
       date? If the current values are different, i s there a reason to believe that the assumed
      values will actually materialize?

Response: Yes, they are based on actual experiences in Indonesia. The capacityfactors and
the emissions factors applied in the analysis are relatively conservative to avoid
overestimating.




                                              95

                 95                                   100                    105                         110                        115                           120                          125                                               INDONESIA
                                                                                                                          This map was produced by
                                                                                                                          the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                    GEOTHERMAL POWER
                                                                                                                          World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                          colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                          any other information shown                                                                         GENERATION DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                          on this map do not imply, on
              15                                                                                                         the part of The World Bank                                                                                                      PROJECT
                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the

                                                         INDONESIA                                                        legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                          or any endorsement or                                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                          a c c e p t a n c e o f    s u c h
                                                                                                                          boundaries.                                                                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITALS
                      MYANMARMYANMAR
                                                                                               VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                               PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS

              10                                                                                                                                                                                                       10                             MAIN ROADS

                                 THAILANDTHAILAND                                                                                                                           Sulu                                                                        RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                            Sea                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

               Banda Aceh                                                                        A        Y                                                                                                                                                135                  140
              5                                                            A            L
                                                                                                                  S        BRUNEI                                                                                                                                                                  5
                         1                                                                                                                                                                                       Talaud
                                     Medan                           M                      Natuna
                                                                                            Besar                      I                                                                Celebes                      Is.
                                                                                                                                                               Tarakan
                        PematangsiantarPematangsiantar                                                                      A                                                             Sea                                                        PACIFIC           OCEAN
               Simeulue                                                                                                                                                                             2424
                                                                                             1919                                                                                                                         Morotai
                                                      2
                                                                            SINGAPORE                                                              23
                                                                                                                                                   23                                        Manado
                          Nias                                   Pekanbaru
                                                                 Pekanbaru      Tanjungpinang
                                                                                                                                                                                        2525               Ternate       Halmahera
              0                                                  3                                                  KALIMANTANKALIMANTAN                                                    Gorontalo                              Waigeo
                              M                                                                Pontianak
                                                                                     Lingga                                                                                  26
                                                                                                                                                                             26                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                               20
                               entawai                                                                                                                       Samarinda
                                    Padang                                                                                                                                                                   3030                             Manokwari          Biak
                                                                                                                                                            Balikpapan      PaluPalu                                                     SorongSorong
                                     Siberut                4         5    JambiJambi                                                                                                           Peleng                  Obi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Obi
                                                                                          Bangka                            21
                                                                                                                            21
                                                               SUMATERASUMATERA            Pangkalpinang          Palangkaraya
                                                                                                                  Palangkaraya                                      SULAWESISULAWESI                 Sula Is.                       Misool    3232          Yapen                 Jayapura
                                                                                                                                                           Mamuju                                                        CeramCeram
                                                      Is.                                    9                                                                                                                                                                      IRIAN JAYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IRIAN JA
                                                                  6             Palembang
                                                                                Palembang            Belitung                                22
                                                                                                                                             22                    2727                                                     Amahai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Amahai     Fakfak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fakfak
                                                                                7                                    Bandjarmasin                                       2828         29
                                                                                                                                                                                     29     Kendari          BuruBuru                                            3333 (PAPUA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (PAPUA)
                                                          Bengkulu                                                                                              Parepare                                             Ambon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Timika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              imika      Puncak Jaya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Puncak Jaya
                                                                                     8                                                                                                                                                                                   (5030 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (5030 m)
              5                                                                                                                                                                              Muna                                            Kai
                                                          Enggano         Bandar
                                                                          Bandar           1111              Java Sea                                        Makassar                                                  Banda                  Is.                                                            AENI
                                                                         Lampung
                                                                         Lampung             JAKARTA                                                                                         Baubau                                3131
                0       200    400 Kilometers                                  Serang
                                                                               Serang                                                                                                                                   Sea                            Aru                                           GUINEAUG
                                                                                               1212Bandung                                                                                                                                             Is.
                                                                                                   Bandung  Semarang
                                                                                                            Semarang      Madura
                                                                                     1010                 1313             Surabaya
                                                                                                                           Surabaya                                                                                                                                                       AUPAPUAAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wetar
                0     100   200    300                   400 Miles                       JAWA                                                                                                                               Babar          Tanimbar
                                                                                                   Yogyakarta                              1616                                                                                                                                                                  WE
                                                                                                                          1515                               Sumbawa                               Alor                 Moa                Is.
                                                                                                                                           BaliBaliLombok
                                                                                                                                                                    RabaRaba        Flores
                                                                                                              1414                                                                                                                                                          Merauke                  NEWN
                 95                                   100                    105                                            Denpasar            Mataram
                                                                                                                                                   Mataram                             Ende                                                          Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                                                         1717               1818                             TIMOR-LESTE
              PROVINCES:                                                                                                             10                          Waingapu     Sumba                 Timor                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kupang
              1 NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                        12 JAWA BARAT                        23 KALIMANTAN TIMUR
              2 SUMATERA UTARA                                  13 JAWA TENGAH                       24 SULAWESI UTARA
              3 RIAU                                            14 D.I. YOGYAKARTA                   25 GORONTALO
              4 SUMATERA BARAT                                  15 JAWA TIMUR                        26 SULAWESI TENGAH                                  I N D I A N O C E A N
              5 JAMBI                                           16 BALI                              27 SULAWESI BARAT

NOVEMBER      6 BENGKULU                                        17 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT               28 SULAWESI SELATAN
              7 SUMATERA SELATAN                                18 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR               29 SULAWESI TENGGARA                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD
              8 LAMPUNG                                         19 RIAU KEPULAUAN                    30 MALUKU UTARA                 15                                                                                                                                                  15
              9 BANGKA-BELITUNG                                 20 KALIMANTAN BARAT                  31 MALUKU                                                                                                                                                                                                         35801
        2007 10 BANTEN                                          21 KALIMANTAN TENGAH                 32 IRIAN JAYA BARAT                                                                                                     A U S T R A L I A
             11 D.K.I. JAKARTA                                  22 KALIMANTAN SELATAN                33 PAPUA (IRIAN JAYA)              115                           120                          125                    130                          135                  140

