                   Document of
                 The World Bank        62983 v1
                                              Report No:




              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                      ON A

        PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                      OF
GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                GEF TF092324-IND
            APPROVED ON MAY 29, 2008


                     TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


                   June 22, 2011
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CO2     Carbon dioxide
DGESGWM Directorate for Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Groundwater
        Management
DGMCG   Directorate General for Mineral, Coal and Geothermal
DGNREEC Directorate General for New and Renewable Energy and Energy
        Conservation
GEF     Global Environment Facility
MEMR    Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
WB      World Bank




              Regional Vice President:        James W. Adams
                     Country Director:        Stefan G. Koeberle
             Sector Manager / Director:       Franz R. Drees-Gross
                    Task Team Leader:         Migara Jayawardena




                                          2
                              INDONESIA
            GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                P099757
                               CONTENTS

                                                                                                                        Page
A. SUMMARY................................................................................................................ 4
B. PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 6
ANNEX 3: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE............................................................ 8




                                                             3
INDONESIA GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

SUMMARY
1.    This restructuring paper is in response to a request by the Government of the
Republic of Indonesia (GoI) made through a letter dated June 14, 2011, from the Ministry
of Finance. The letter and the associated detailed Action Plan, request the extension of
closing date of the GEF Grant from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2013 for the Geothermal
Power Generation Development Project.

2.    Approval for the proposed extension of closing date is sought from the Regional Vice
President since, although it is the first extension of the project, it covers a period of two
years.

3.   Details of the proposed extension are discussed in Annex 1.


PROJECT STATUS
4.   Background. The project, approved by the World Bank’s Board of Executive
Directors on May 29, 2008, was designed to support the policy and institutional reforms in
order to promote the expansion of economic and environmentally friendly geothermal
power generation in Indonesia and reduce CO2 emissions from the power system.
Following the realization of effectiveness conditions, the Project was declared effective on
October 16, 2008.

5.   The project comprises the following components.
      (a) Component 1: Policy Framework for Scaling-up the Development of
          Geothermal Power
      (b) Component 2: Transactions Management for Mobilizing Investments in
          Geothermal Power Generation
      (c) Component 3: Geothermal Sector Technical Capacity Building
      (d) Component 4: Project Management Assistance

Summary of Implementation Progress. Due to initial delays and management challenges
faced by the project, the project implementation rating is marginally unsatisfactory.
However, given the progress made in terms of sector development and the scale-up in
project activities in support of the reforms, project can achieve its objectives with the
extension proposed through this restructuring paper,

6.    As of April 30, 2011, the Grant had disbursed US$ 0.55 million (15 percent of the
total Grant amount) and commitments had reached US$ 1.6 million (40 percent of the total
Grant amount).


                                             4
7.    At project outset, delays were experienced with respect to the completion of internal
government procedures for activation of the Special Account, and the procurement process
for the selection of consultants for key activities, particularly to develop a pricing policy to
address incremental costs (pricing consultants) and to design and prepare for geothermal
investment transactions (transaction consultants).

8.    In order to compensate for these delays in completion of the required processes, the
World Bank task team became actively involved in supporting the Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Resources (MEMR) and organized workshops and seminars to make progress with
capacity building activities on pricing, incentive mechanisms and transaction. In order to be
able to respond to the government’s priority needs, the Bank mobilized funding resources
outside the project to carry out a study1 focusing on geothermal resource risks in Indonesia.
This analysis will inform further project activities related to geothermal resource risks.

9.    Project activities have picked up considerably over the past year. MEMR mobilized
consultants under the project to carry out two key activities focusing on the removal of
major barriers related to pricing and transactions involving geothermal power development
in Indonesia. Since project inception, existing geothermal developers have added 220 MW
of geothermal capacity. Furthermore, with the assistance of the project and the World
Bank, six power purchase agreements were signed between PLN, the national power
company, and state-owned geothermal developer, Pertamina Geothermal Energy (PGE).
Since the consultants were mobilized under the project, they have played an important role
in undertaking the urgent tasks of reviewing the existing policies and embarked upon an
intensive work plan as envisaged by the GEF Project design. This has included advisory
support to the GoI in general, and MEMR in particular, for mobilizing investments in the
sector. The consultants have delivered draft reports to MEMR, and consultation workshops
to obtain feedback on the reports were organized. Their recommendations are currently
under review by MEMR, and it has become evident that additional time is required to
implement GOI decisions.

10. The scopes of some studies under the project were also slightly modified during
supervision as a result of findings of scoping studies and in order to reflect evolving
priorities in the sector due to ongoing developments on the ground. For example, as a
means of resource risk mitigation, MEMR recently decided to upgrade data quality and
provide independent validation of resource information for a selected field proposed for
competitive tendering under the project.

11. As a part of the effort to mainstream renewable energy, including geothermal, the GoI
has established a dedicated Directorate General for New and Renewable Energy and
Energy Conservation (DGNREEC) in MEMR. In line with this new institutional
arrangement, the Directorate for Geothermal Enterprise Supervision and Groundwater
Management (DGESGWM), which was the designated implementing department for the
project, has been renamed as the Directorate for Geothermal and relocated under
DGNREEC. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is under the Directorate of
Geothermal.

1
 An Assessment of Geothermal Resource Risks in Indonesia, Private Participation in Infrastructure Advisory
Facility (PPIAF), The World Bank, 2010.
                                                    5
12. MEMR has faced some challenges in managing the project due to a lack of familiarity
with World Bank procedures, changes in personnel, and the recent institutional
restructuring at MEMR. As a result, there is room for improvement with regards to
procurement and financial management. The financial management of the grant is rated
moderately unsatisfactory in the latest supervision mainly due to non submission of interim
financial reports (IFRs), lack of withdrawal applications submitted for disbursement, delays
in budget availability and weaknesses identified in transaction review. However, following
Bank provided training, the IFRs have now been submitted. A withdrawal application for
disbursement has also been submitted to MOF, and the audit by BPKP has been carried out.
The budget issues are being dealt with and the task team is working with MEMR to address
the documentation issues identified in the transaction review. The task team has agreed
with MEMR on remedial actions and training opportunities to address these project
management shortcomings in order to improve implementation going forward.

13. Despite the challenges faced by the project, MEMR has reaffirmed that the project in
general, and the activities focusing on pricing and transactions for geothermal power
generation in particular, continue to make a critical contribution to the government’s effort
to remove the major barriers facing geothermal energy scale-up in Indonesia. Furthermore,
the project remains relevant to the achievement of the country’s development goals,
particularly in light of the significance of geothermal energy in the country’s power
generation expansion program.

14. Action Plan for Project Implementation. Despite progress made by MEMR thus
far, the major barriers related to pricing and transactions still exist. Therefore, an
assessment undertaken by MEMR confirmed that the project continues to contribute to
realizing the government’s objectives for geothermal energy. As part of this effort, the
MEMR prepared an Action Plan in consultation with the Bank, which forms the basis for
the proposed extension of grant closing date.

15. The Action Plan, which is available in project files, envisages adjustments to
implementation of individual activities, and proposes revisions to the scope of a select set
of activities within existing project components, which are necessary to reflect the current
development status in the sector and ensure continued alignment with the government’s
priorities.

16. According to the action plan, a total of US$ 654,850 in GEF funds will be freed up
due to cost savings resulting from actual contract values under some activities being lower
than originally envisaged, and revision of scope of some studies in order to better align
with current priorities, or whose objectives have been met under other activities. MEMR
will allocate the funds freed up towards other priority activities that reflect the recent
progress in the geothermal energy sector in Indonesia. Specifically, MEMR intends to use
US$ 600,000 of the remaining available funds for a study to upgrade and validate data for
geothermal fields proposed for model project tendering under Component 2. Furthermore,
the remaining US$ 54,850 will be directed towards strengthening the capacity of the
project management unit in order to improve overall project implementation.



                                             6
17. The reallocation of funds among individual activities within the project does not
affect the allocation of Grant proceeds presented in Section IV, Part A, Paragraph 2 of the
GEF Grant Agreement.

18. None of the changes in activity details or implementation arrangements impact the
Project Development Objectives, or the expected outcomes of the individual activities. On
the contrary, the Action Plan helps ensure that the project continues to meet the
government’s objectives.

19. The Action Plan also includes a revised implementation and disbursement schedule,
which is presented in Paragraph 20 of this Paper. Accordingly, the procurement plan will
be updated by MEMR and submitted to the Bank for review.



PROPOSED CHANGE
20. Extension of closing date. The Government of Indonesia requests the extension of
the project closing date, by two years, to June 30, 2013. This extension is necessary in
order to compensate for initial delays and allow time for the completion of the critical
activities under the project. Further details are available in Annex 1.

21. Implementation schedule. Consistent with the proposed extension of project closing
date by two years, the following revised implementation schedule is envisaged for each
component.




                                            7
8
                                      ANNEX 1:
                              Extension of Closing Date

INDONESIA GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                     GEF TF92324 – P099757

                                        Restructuring Paper


1.    The closing date for the Indonesia Geothermal Power Generation Development Project
[GEF TF92324 – P099757], will be extended from June 30, 2011 until June 30, 2013.

2.      As described in Section B of the main text of the Restructuring Paper, the project
implementation progress is rated moderately satisfactory and with the proposed changes the
project objectives continue to be achievable.

3.    The proposed extension is necessary to compensate for initial delays in project
implementation, and allow time for the completion of high priority activities under the following
components:

       (i) Component 1: Policy Framework for Scaling up the Development of geothermal Power
       (ii) Component 2:Transaction Management for mobilizing Investments in Geothermal
            Power Generation

4.      The Recipient has put in place a realistic Action Plan to ensure completion of the project by
the revised closing date. The World Bank task team has reviewed the proposed action plan and has
found it to be satisfactory. The action plan and implementation timeline are available in project
files.

5.     This will be the first extension of the project.
