Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  10012-BR  Type:  (SAR)                   Report No. 10012-BR
MENEZES, B/ X39324 / 17 131/ LAIIN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO.METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
MARCH 6, 1992
LAI Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiros (Cz$)
US$1          = Cr$ 280  (April 20, 1991)
US$1          = Cr$ 340  (June  30, 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BC          - Banco Central do Brasil
Central Bank of Brazil
BNDES       - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CBTU        - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
EBTU        - Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
EEPASA      - Ferrovias Paulistas S.A.
Sao Paulo State Railways
GEIPOT      - Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
GOB         - Governo Federal
Federal Government
MSP         - Governo Municipal do Sao Paulo
Municipality of Sao Paulo
;4.A.S.     - Minist6rio de Aq&o Social
Ministry of Social Action
MINFRA      - Minist6rio da Infra-Estrutura
Ministry of Infrastructure
MR          - Metropolitan Region
Regiao Metropolitana
RFFSA       - Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
Federal Railways
SNT         - Secretfiria Nacional de Transporte
National Transport Secretariat
SP          - Governo Estadual do Sao Paulo
State of Sao Paulo
TRENSURD    - Urban train of Porto Alegre
Trem Urbano de Porto Alegre
UIPD        - Unidade de Implementacao do Projeto
Program Implementation Unit
Other
ATC         - Automatic Train Control
ATS         - Automatic Train Stop
CCE         - Centralized Energy Control
CCO         - Operational Control Center
EMU         - Electric Multiple Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL - METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents                                                     Page No.
Ie 1.  1 1 M0 B   OUD TRNx_ SECTORR ................................ 1
As Background o ... ... .6. * * * *   * * * * *   * *.   * *   * * * o  * * t  * a  * * * * * ... o 9 * * o 1
B. The Institutional Framework. .... ......a...... ....    2
C.  The New Constitution; Its Impact on Urban Transport.....    4
D.  The Key l1sues for the Sector...........................    6
E. The Bank's Strategy for the Subsector.e..... .........   6
F.  Past Experience in the Sector: Lessons for the Future...   7
II.    RAIL TRANSPORT IN THE URBAN 7SPORT SECTOR: THE ROLE OF CBTU 7
A.  The Creation and Role of CBTU.........................   7
B.  The Condition of the CBTU  yvdtems ......................    8
C. The Institutional Constraints of the CBTUT......             8
D. Modal Integration and the CBTU  ...... *   .,.......         10
E. The Financial Situation of CBTU       .......     ......    10
F. Decentralization of CBTU...  ............ . . * .    13
III.   TEE _PROJECT ................................................   13
A.  Proje      ctObjectives and Rtiionale .......... on.......  13
B. Project Description................. ................ ..     14
C.  Project Components. ......................... .... .. .     14
D.  Project Organization and Implementation .................   16
E.  Implementation Schedule ...........   ............. . . ...   17
F. Project Cost and FinancingCd ...Fn......                     17
Go Procurement......,                                           19
H. Disburseme          nt,Accounts and Audits ..................   21
I. Project Mon4          torlng and  Reporting ..... .* .......  .    22
J.   Mid-Term  Project  Review   .............................. .  24
K.  Project Economic  Evaluation Summary ....... 0*00*00**000#0   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during July 1991. The mission comprised Messrs. B. Menezes (Task
Manager), J. Rebelo (Joint Task Manager) LAlIN; E. Abbott, LEGLA; J. Baigorria
(Sr. Railway Engineer) LATIE; P. Doty (Financial Advisor), L. Villela (State
Finances Consultant), R. Villela (Economist), J.L. Collard (Signalling and
Telecom Consultant), J. Kerr, (Rolling Stock and Workshops Consultant).
Messrs. R. Scurfield 'and L. Thompson (INUTD) acted as Peer Reviewers.  Mmes.
F. Cash and M. Torres helped prepare this report.
This project was prepared in parallel and appraised at the same time as a
proposed similar project in the State of Rio de Janeiro, which has been
postponed. Some data on RJ has been retained for comparative purposes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



is
IV.    DECETRALIZATION. INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL POLICY REFORMS   25
B. Modali:ation........... ............................   27
C. Financial Polic7..e. ...*...- ..... .... -.--.-......... 28
V.     ENVIRONMFNTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT .........................   31
VI.    PROJECT RISKS, AGREEMENTS AND RECONMENDATIONS ...............   32
DETAILED COST AND DISBURSEMENT TABLES.......................             36
CHARTS
1.   Timetable for Key Actions and Events ........................  43
2.   Institutional Arrangements.. ................................   44
3.   Flow of Funds/Legal Arrangementsr......t.....................    45
4.   Load Diagram - Morning Peak Hour .......46
ANNEXES
1.   Bank Assistance to the Urban Transport Sector in Brazil.......   47
2.   Traffic Demand and Modal Integration..........................   55
3.   The Rehabilitation Program
A.  The Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan......   63
B.  Permanent Way Rehabilitation Works ................    68
C.  Stations Rehabilitation Works ...............   75
D.  Rolling Stock Motive Power and Workshops/Depot..........       77
E.  Signalling, Telecommunications and Electrification........   85
F. Project Implementation and Monitoring ......      ...............    95
4.   Institutional Reforms and Financing Mechanisms:
Their Impact on Modal Integration and Cost-efficiency
A. The Impact of Decentralization of tbh CBTU on State
and Municipal Finances...                           ...*.#090**. .  103
B.  Urban Transportation Expenses and Household Income ........   113
5.   Economic, Financial and Environmental Impact
A. Economic Evaluation   ......        ....t s.................    117
B. Financial Evaluation.....................................    123
C.  Environmental Impact of the Project...#**00............... #   135
6.   Selected Documents and Data available in the Project File ....   137
7.   CBTU Proposed Accelerated Disbursement Profile................    138
MAP:   IBRD 23134 - Metropolitan Transport - Decentralization
Project CBTU - Sao Paulo System



iii
BRAZIL
M9TROPOLITAN TDMN$PORT   .CENTRALIZATION PROJECT IN SAO PAULO
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         The Federative Republic of Brazil
Impl.muntina      The Brazilian Urban Train Company (CBTU) and the State of
Afencies:        of Sao Paulo
Amount:           US$126 million
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Objectives
and Descrigtion: The broad project objectives through a first project in Sao Paulo are
to lay the foundations for the financial, institutional and
organizational policy changes required to achieve sustainable,
integrated multimodal transport in ti.a SP MR. The specific objectives
for the proposed project are:
* to support the Federal Government in its efforts to transfer the
CBTU-SP subdivision to the State in order to enhance its management
and operations;
* to introduce institutional, organizational and financial policy
reforms to assure its long-term financial sustainability (including
cost-efficiency gains, improved multimodal integration, expanded
capacity, and substantial reduction in subsidies); and
- to contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental improvement
(facilitating access to work, decreasing their trip time to work, the
reduction of congestion, and the reduction of accidents and fatalities
through the provision of safor and more comfortable rail transport).
The model in this project will be utilized by CBTU to decentralize its
remaining 8 subsystems.
The project includes an Investment Component (IC) and an Institutional
Development (ID) component.   The IC component (90Z of the loan)
includes  civil  works  and  goods  to  implement  the  proposed
rehabilitation of stations, track, rolling stock, signalling, power
supply, telecommunications, fencing of the right of way, traffic
engineering equipment and construction of transfer points required to
integrate CBTU with other modes. The ID component (lOX of the loan)
will consist of the development and implementation of policies and
action programs to: a) establish organizational, financial and
institutional reforms as a basis for improved cost recovery, including
the implementation of a plan of action for the transfer of those
remaining viable CBTU subdivisions to their respective states;
(b) operationalize multi-modal and tariff integration between CBTU-SP,
PEPASA (Metropolitan Train) feeder bus systems and non-motorized
vehicles, introduce long run variable cost based fare structures which
reflect peak and off peak services and to improve targeting of



iv
subsidies; (c) identify an investment program to consolidate the
rehabilitation and decentralization in SP; (d) study and recommend
different  management  alternatives,   technical  improvements  and
financial reforms for improving the operating efficiency of the FEPASA
and the CMTC (SP), as well as similar studies for each of the
remaining operating subdivisions including a review of management
contracts and franchising or concessions to the private sector; and
(a) provide technical and management training to CBTU employees as
recommended in the organization and manpower development studies (and
after decentralization to the staff of each operating agency), and
staff of selected other transport agencies participating in the
project.
The project is estimated to require five years to implement, at a
total cost of US$281 million equivalent with a foreign exchange
component of US$126 million (45 percent). The project will be managed
by a special Program Implementation Unit (PIU), created in the CBTU
for the purpose of decentralization, of which the CBTU-SP will be the
first. It would remain active for the duration of the project. After
decentralization (12/31/93) the entire Unit will be transferred and
incorporated into the SP-Public Corporation to be set up for managing
system. This will ensure retention of project management experience
for continuity and consolidation.
?rol ct
Benefits:         Substantial quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are expected
from the provision of larger capacity and safer operation by CBTU,
namely, operating cost savings, time savings for the users, less
accidents and fatalities and employment generation through better
spatial integration of markets. In addition, there will be a positive
environmental impact through the reduction of fossil fuel consumption
and road congestion with a consequent improvement of air quality and
noise pollution, will require less ai,sel operated buses to the
electrified rail service cleaner and less noisy. Poverty alleviation
will also result from facilitation of access to employment. An
economic evaluation of the project shows an ERR of 46% for the
investment component which represents 96% of the total project cost.
Project
lisks:            The main risks involved are the dynamics and consequent delays in the
dialogue between the three levels of government, the political
reluctance to raising tariffs which will allow each sub-division to
reach the targeted working ratios, the possible delays in the
procurement process, and the timely availability of counterpart funds.
Negotiations between the Federal and State Governments have progressed
very well. All parties have agreed on the decentralization, and the
risks are more associated with "fine-tuning" its phasing and terms of
transfer. The tariff issue will remain a major risk although CBTU has
been increasing tariffs, because Governments may be tempted to freeze
tariffs for long periods of time, thereby eroding revenues. The
contract plans will contain provisions to protect the CBTU-SP system
from these imposed freezes.  The delays in the procurement process
will be minimized by requiring the borrower to produce the major
tender documents by Board Presentation. The timely availability of
counterpart funds will be addressed by seeking assurances that they
are included in the Federal Government FY92 provisions and subsequent
years, for CBTU.



v
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
SAO PAULO
ESTIMATED COSTS      j/                      ______           _
US$ NIlllion                                    LOCAL          FOREIGN         TOTAL 3/
A. IN.TITUTI L                                    .,V    . .       _                    _ACTIONP_
Tech. Assistance
Studioes                                          6.2             3.3               9.5
Training                                          0.7             0.3                1
-B <    HI$TMEN'spROGRA -    _;_____.,_
Civil Works                                      28.2            15.2               43.4
Materials                                          7.4           10.7               18.1
Equipment                                        24.2            58.1              82.3
Mechanical Works                                  19.8           59.3               79.1
Supervision of Invest. Program                    7.2                                7.2
:9 ~~ALBASEKG0~:.                     93.6           146.9             240.5
Physical Contingencies                           11.4            11.9              23.3
Price Contingencies                               8.4             8.8               17.2
TOTAL,. PROjECT.                    113.3           167.6    _         281
FINANCING PLAN                                            US$Million
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                       -.   .    .    s . ... .
____________________________ _              LOCAt      =     ______     _  __A_ _ L       _A
IBRD                                                     }             125.6             125.6
GOB                                                113.3                42.0             155.3
TOTAL                               .1.3                 16.6           .. _-
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:               USSmillion
._ __  _  _   _  _  _  _  _ __  _                                   -        '     h
Bank PY                     92              93             94            95       96
Annual                      20.0    2/      35.0           40           20.0      11
Cumulative                 20.0             55.0            95          115.0     126   J
I/  Including estimated local taxes and duties totalling US$39.1 million.
2/  Including initial deposits into the Special Accounts totalling US$11.0 million.
3/ Differences in totals may be due to rounding.
Rate of Return: about 46% based on an evaluation nf the investment component, which represento
962 of the total project cost.



I.  THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECT
A.   kackround
1.1 Urban Transportation is in a crisis in Brazil. Although the nation has
invested heavily in the sector over the past 15 years, the effective demand for
urban transport services particularly in major metropolitan regions (MRs),
increased by about 82Z in the last decade, and under present pricing policiee,
exceeds the existing peak hour supply in most NRs. To add to this capacity
shortage,    the   Brazilian   urban
transport    sector    suffers    from
institutional problems due to a lack    AVERAGE ANNUAL POPULATION GROWTH RATE
of  coordination  between  the  three       FOR BRAZIL AND S.PAULO METROP. REGION
levels of government responsible for         POPULATION GROWTH RAVE S
urban transport in the MRs. The New         . _         4.           4.0
Constitution  promulgated in October                         4.... .
1988, clearly transfers responsibility    4: I'  .      .........
for  urban  transport  to  state  and    3,            ......
municipal governments. The federally-    2.
owned  rail  system  (CBTU) has been .
financed and operated independently of l v        . o     1070 To la    1980 t1s8?
the transportation priorities within                       DECADE
MRs. This has led to inefficient modal  |Msuomn 90&PAULOMUNIClPLITY 
and tariff integration and, above all,  I                      -              -
to a lack of prioritization of urban   SOURCEEIPOT
transport investments. Finally, cost
recovery policies and mechanisms have  Figure 1
been so inadequate that some of the
systems (particularly the CBTU) have deteriorated to the extent that they are
no louger a safe and reliable means of transport.  The main objective of this
project is to support the Federal Governmment in its efforts to transfer the
CBTU-SP sub-division to the State of Sao Paulo in order to enhance its
operational and financial management.
1.2 The urban poor, who are the main users of the urban train system, bear the
brunt of these problems: (a) shortage of capacity at peak hours resulting in
overcrowded (>10 pass/m2) often inhuman conditions, (b) long work journeys (2.5
hours each way) from the metropolitan periphery to the urban centers, with often
more than two modal transfers; and (c) high proportion (20%) of their income
towards home to work fares (normally bus plus rail fares). Expansion of the
capacity utilization of the rail based systems has been singled out by several
studies, as the least-cost priority option to increase peak hour capacity in the
HRs especially of Sao Paulo (SP) and Rio de Janeiro (RJ), which between them
alone account for 65% of all urban transport trips. There exists a consensus,
that a decentralization of the CBTU systems ,i.e. the transfer of the
responsibility for the administration, operation, financing and ownership of the
CBTU systems in each of the 9 MRs, in line with the provisions of the New
Constitution, will make the systems more responsive to their ridership. This
decentralization should be coupled with the implementation of a comprehensive set
of efficiency-related policies which will, among other things, promote modal
integration, improve direct cost recovery, target subsidies, and institutionalize
a predictable and sustainable system for financing the operating shortfall of
each MR operating agency, and for expansion of the systems in the future.
1.3  Urban Growth Fuels Demand for Urban Transport.   While the national
population almost tripled, from 52 million in 1950 to 150.5 million in 1990, the



-2-
urban population quadrupled from 19
million to 73 million, particularly in      URBAN POPULATION AND TRANSPORT DEMAND
Brazil's  central-west  and  southern                BRAZIL-1980 TO 2000
cities and metropolitan regions (NRs)       0 ON        No
and cities (S&o Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
Belo Horizonte and Brasilia), where                     1 
more  employment  opportunities  were        l         *        4
available.    Both  rural  and  urban    '°° .    .         "  i
migrants have gravitated toward these       so, j    .. ...                45
cities in search of employment.  To
underline   the  magnitude   of  the        a OUAINTTA N.0OL    CAPTHWA*&S LM!; =UM Si
problems facing the urban transport                  TRIPISIDAY . T  -
sector,  it  is  estimated  that  the        r_,0   Euo  =2000
number  of trips/day  for all urban
areas   with   more   than   100,000                                .
inhabitants jumped from 68 million to  Figure 2
124 million from 1980 to 1990, and is
expected to reach 180 million in the
year 2000 or the equivalent of 1.8 tripsiday/person.  Measures to discourage
heavy migration frotm rural to urban areas including a policy to develop the
country's interior (interioriza&ao), through the provision of basic needs to
small farmers, and upgrading services provision in medium-sized cities, are not
sufficient to stem the continuing migration to large MRs such as Sao Paulo, Rio
de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, and to the other urban conurbations around various
state capitals. This migration further increased the pressures on the existing
urban transport systems, making coramuting to work a daily ordeal, especially to
the poorest segments of the MRs, which depend mainly on buses and trains to reach
their work places.
B. The Institutional
Framework
1.4 The institutional framework for urban transport policy and financing has
(in common with many sectors in Brazil), been considerably weakened 4n the recent
past. State and municipalities, traditionally responsible for the provision of
urban infrastructure and services, became increasingly unable to meet their
growing financial obligations.
Federal: In 1964, the Federal Government (GOB) centralized policy and
investment decisions by creating the National Housing Bank (BNH) to provide
financing for a broad range of shelter-related services.  More than a decade
later, in response to growing transport problems, the Brazilian Urban Transport
Company (EBTU) was established in 1976 to implement urban transport policy and
to finance urban transport investments.   At the same time,  the Brazilian
Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT) was created to assist preparation of both
urban and inter-urban transport policies and investment plans.  In 1984, the
Brazilian Urban Rail Company (CBTU) was formed in an effort to separate
nationwide rail-based goods and commuter services. The CBTU was empowered to take
over the planning, operation and financing of the majority of suburban rail
systems, focused in the MRs. From 1979 to 1985, the National Urban Development
Council (CNDU) had the primary responsibility for urban development coordination
within the GOB and with other levels of Government. In March 1985, the Ministry
of Urban Development and the Environment (MDU) was established and took over
CNDU, BNH and (in January 1986) EBTU; the urban divisions of GEIPOT were also



-3-
merged with EBTU.  Since the MDU was responsible for urban transport policy
formulation,   those   institutional
changes were intended to improve urban     A     I A   O : :.>
development pla1ining and coordinatiion    : T             U
and policy formulation.  CBTU however      OLIOY
remained  withlin  the  Ministry  of
Transport (MT).  In 1989, as part of a
major    macro-financial    policy   ;    98    New Federa           -
adjustment to reduce the size of the    ¢onsttiut fn:
public sector, the GOB abolished both         * Shifted urban tranport
the MDU and the EBTU, thus eliminating           Ur   tci Stat   a
the main federal agency in charge of              :Oitteu.
preparing guidelines and negotiating           * Ipeeted t.ac   r o  ,
financing  for  the  urban  transport         :         more r         in
sector.   Thus a first step towards          :        of  St     and
decentralization  of  responsibility            M n  iaut±.
from  the  national  to  sub-national         * Allows {orc1eato.Qf
levels was  initiated,  al hough the            metropolitan regios, urban
CBTU continued as the only federal              conglmerates    iiticworegians
urban  transport  agency  in the MT,
which  was  incorporated  into  the             in oep  to integrate  th.
Ministry of Infrastructure (MINFRA) in       ,                    of  t        ,an
March, 1990.                                     nest
Local: States and municipalities are    *  i2sX 0   :tinctU   o  he Tt t` 
respectively  responsible for inter-          (Bai1r4W   Ur             W t
municipal    and    intra-municipal
transportation services. In the case    :    Leav   a vac u  at.the
of Sao Paulo for example, the State
regulates    the    licensing       o            ee4I..onoeal
intermunicipal bus passenger services,   . r   tt gSP=   5!.07*>
owned and operated excl'tsively by the          R        h  major agen.,
private  sector.  It  also  owns  and                .... b....
operates    a   metropolitan   train            urb  t?ansport  a   th m i
(FEPASA). In June 1991, the incoming  ... ...a.. . ....... .
Adtainistration set up a Secretariat of
Metropolitan  Transport   to  better            R       4          t
integrate  urban  transport  systems            rcnoIspot~re4
within the MR.  The Municipality of             mnc~'te   ihu
Sao  Paulo  (MSP)  owns  and  operates     .        a       v5tRoff
about 20% of the total municipal bus
passonger services and regulates the    *19      'oOe
remaining 80% operated and owned by        etiz              o
the private sector.Ubn~j                                        ~)t   h
linancing   Agencys   The   National          * Pe   al.itation to
Development   Bank   (BNDES),   which           ntoa   oenet
invests   in   a   broad   range   of         *      _ ~ ..e .....de~one
infrastructure sub-sectors, maintains           to mo 
a role  in  the  f inancing  of urban           codnto   n   iaca
transport  investments  at  both  the
federal and the local levels.                                   . .
BOX 1
1.5  Given the context of the rapidly
changing institutional scenario, there



-4-
is an urgent need for reforms to: (a) define the specific roles and
responsibilities for urban transport sector within the GOB, at the moment, split
between the Ministry of Infrastructure (for the CBTU) and the Ministry of Social
Action (MAS) for road based transport; (b) improve the interaction between the
three levels of government in urban transport currently weak or non-existentI and
(c) strengthen local coordination, especially in the MRs, to assure proper
planning, programming, coordination and monitoring of the urban transport
services.   The lack of sowe formal coordination entity leads to poor modal
integration, a duplication of investment, and wastage of scarce resources.
C.  The eVCoatiti             I
1.6 While the institutional framework is weak, the environment for introducing
aerious and long-term reforms, is stronger than it has ever been, especially as
a consequence of the provisions under Brazil's New Federal Constitution enacted
in 1988, which shifted the responsibilities for urban transport from the GO0 to
the states and municipalities. It stipulates, among other things, that  the
Federal Government would have responsibility of enacting legislation concerning
guidelines in national transport policy; and for transit and transportation.
However, the Federal Goverrnent can authorize the states to legislate on specific
questions related to those guidelines.   Such legislation would define the
contractual terms (concessions) for public service companies, special conditions
and their terms, renewal, including supervision. Such legislation will also
define the rights of the users, the tariff policy and the obligaticin of
maintaining an adequate level of service.
1.7 For sub-national governments, the Constitution authorizes states to organize
themselves, and observe their own charter and laws, as long as the principles
stated in the Federal Constitution are observed. States are allowed to designate
metropolitan and microregions and urban conglomerates, by grouping the
neighboring municipalities, in order to integrate the planning and execution of
public serving common interest. Furthermore, the Constitution states that it is
the responsibility of the municipalities to: enact legislation on matters of
local interest; organize and provide for, directly or under a concession, always
through bidding, the public services of local interest, including public
transport, which is considered an essential service.
1.8  The 1988 Constitution also mandated fiscal reform transferring a significant
larger proportion of tax revenues from GOB to subnational governments,
facilitating the latter to assume the financial responsibilities which accompany
the decentralization of services.
D. Key Issues in the Urban Transport Sector
A recent Bank sector review identified 3 sets of crucial issues in which
to support policy reforms: (a) institutional; (b) financial and economic; and
(c) technical.
1.9 The first set of issues include:
Fine-Tuning  Intergovernmental  Relations:  geared  towards  a clear
definition of their respective roles in the financing, planning and
operation of urban transport services in accordance with the 1988
Constitution;



ll: ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      5
*     Creation of a Coordination Agency In each MRs formally empowered for
planning, coorditijtin6 and setting priorities for new multi-year
investments in order to (i) assur:e a minimum of planning continuity,
and to encourage modal integration including tariff setting and cost
sharing policies; and (ii) strengthening the technical capacity for
transportation planning, and the economic and financial evaluation of
new investments especial.,  siith the proliferation of the proposed high
rail transit (LRT) systet.  and
*     Introducing Regulatory Reform: targeted towards (i) the elimination
of regulatory barriers which might   prevent  free entry  and/or
competition in the market for provision of transport services
especially bus services; (ii) thie encouragement of market based
incentives for pollution control to the extent possible, to minimize
the fiscal burden implied by de facto government subsidies to
polluters; and (Iii) allocating responsibilities for the enforcement
of the law and definition of tougher standards, across government
levels
1.10 The second set of issues woxuld require a reform of current financial and
ecoaomic policy and management towards addressing short term (operations and
maintenance) and long term (investment) requirements. Specifically these should
include:
*     Cost Recovery and Tariff Policies: targeted towards improving the
financial viability of operating entities by (i) setting tariffs
which, when added to subsidies, cover at least the long-run variable
costs (defined as out-of-pocket costs plus depreciation of equipment
and cost of capital) of the service provided and by controlling fare
evasion; (ii) moderating demand through setting of appropriate peak
and off-peak pricing;
*     Improving the Targeting of Urban Transport Subsidies: to the low
income population, especially to the informal sector. Existing
mechanisms such as the "vale de transporte" are intended to provide
such subsidies but are only available to those in formal employment.
Only 40% of the target population for which thils subsidy was designed
takes advantage of it. In this subsidy, the employer picks up all the
urban transport costs   above 6% of its employees' salary.  He is
allowed to deduct these costs from his Federal Income Tax.
Unfortunately, a good percentage of the target population does not
have formal employees and therefore cannot take advantage of this
ingenious targeted subsidy;
d     Imlproving the Financial Management of Public-Owned Systems: through
wide ranging cost cutting measures, staff rationalization policies,
strict adherence to operating targets through the introduction of
Contract Plans, and by appointing more professional managers to run
the mass transit systems; and
*     Revamping of Funding Mechanisms  and Policies:  in  order  to  (i)
guarantee adequate financing of subsidies on a predictable basis
(tariff differentiation, contracted budgetary transfers, etc.) and
channelling them (tokens, multimodal passes, differential tariffs);



-6 -
and (ii)) generate resources for the implementation or extension of
mass transit sys'cems.
1.11 The third set of technical issues relate to:
Capacity and Safety:   the need to increase the supply of adequate
cost-efficient peak hour capacity in order to guarantee an acceptable
level of service to the average commuter, under reasonable safety
conditions. This can be done by (i) rebabilitating and restructuring
existing systems, implementing modal integration, and by selective
expansion of new services which prove to be the most efficient
alternative from the technical, economic and, especially, financial
standpoint; (ii) improving traffic management to maximize use of
available  road  space  and  reduce  congestion,  through  route
rationalization for mass transport services, through appropriate
traffic engineering equipment and low enforcement; (iii) reducing
traffic and transit accidents through a combination of transit safety
education campaigns, law enforcement and appropriate traffic
engineering;  and  (iv)  exploring  and  implementing  alternative
technologies to minimize environmental problems.
E. The Ba s Strategy for the Subsector
1.12 Urban transport policies would be geared toward the efficient provision of
the urban transport services which are required to restore the economic
efficiency of cities, and which improve access to affordable transportation
through directly targeted subsidies, the low-income populations which have
traditionally received less attention. rolicies would be consistent with the
broader transport sector objectives, as well as with the objectives of the urban
sector, and of poverty alleviation.
1. 13 In view of tbe goals stated above, which encompass economic efficiency, cost
recovery, selective targeting of subsidies to alleviating poverty, administrative
convenience and modal coordination, the Bank's vision for the sector in the
short-term (3-5 years) is oriented towards: (i) assisting the three levels of
government in formulating and implementing an urban transport policy consistent
with the increased role of subonational governments; (ii) supporting an emergency
program to rehabilitate existing services such as thLe CBTU rail services, metro
lines and busways, which can easily and quickly increase their efficiency and
their peak hour capacity; (iii) introducing better cost recovery mechanisms
including adequate cost-based peak hour tariffs and fare evasion control in the
rehabilitated services in order to strengthen their financial base; (iv)
increasing the efficiency and equity of existing services through multimodal
tariff and physical integration; (v) promote deregulation and private sector
participation; and (vi) improving the targeting of subsidies to the poor.
1.14 Over the medium term (5-7 years), the Bank's support is expected to shift
towards a focus on promoting a more efficient and financially suotainable market
oriented supply of public transport services, leading to a final phase (> 7
years) of policy consolidation.
F. Past ExRerience in the Sector: Lessons for the Future



-7
1.15 Bank support to the urban transport sector has been provided through four
urban transport projects totalling US$51:3 million, of which the First, Second and
Third Urban Transport Projects (Loans 1563-BR, 1839-BR, 1965-BR) were completed.
The IV Urban Transport Project (Loan 2822-BR) which continued the policy
initiated in the Third project, was cancelled when the GOB abolished EBTU.
1.16 The major lessons learned from previous urban transport sector loans are
described in detail in ANNEX 1 and can be summarized as follows: (a) because of
the complex institutional framework outlined earlier (see para. 1.4), the
coordination between the three levels of government in urban transport cannot be
assumed, and must be dealt with very carefully at the project preparation level
and during project supervision. Institutional arrangements and agreements should
be reviewed in detail during a mid-term project review (para. 3.23); (b) policy
reform must be directed towards promoting modal integration, in order to minimize
distortions resulting from inefficient physical and financial coordination
between modes; (c) the tariff levels should allow for significant cost recovery
o' working costs and must be complemented by pre-defined financing mechanisms
which cover the shortfall between operating costs and revenues; (d) demand levels
forecast by the borrowers should be carefully scrutinized, and (e) more attention
must be given to issues of maintenance/management of infrastructure.
II. RAIL TRANSPORT IN THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR:
THE ROLE OF CBTU
A. The Creation and Role of CBTU
2.1 Suburban rail services are provided in several of the MRs either by the
Brazilian Urban Railways Transport Company (CBTU) or by State oxwned entities such
as FEPASA in Sao Paulo and TRENSTURB in Porto Alegre. GOB created the Brazilian
Urban Rail Company (CBTU) in 1984, by separating suburban rail passenger services
from freight services which, at that time, were both being provided by the
national railways (RRFSA) on existing rail lines (810 km), in 9 states. GOB's
objective was to create an agency fully dedicated to suburban rail service which
could offer a more cost efficient rail service to the MRs than that provided by
the Federal Railways (REFSA), thereby relieving some of the MRs peak-hour
capacity problems. CBTV operates suburban rail services in Rio ee Janeiro (380
km), Sao Paulo (192 km), Recife (52.5 km), Belo Horizonte (33.6 km), Salvador
(13.5 km), Fortaleza (42 km), Macei6 (33 km), Joao Pessoa (30 km), and Natal (56
km). The CBTU's 9 subdivisions cover 44 municipalities with a total population
of 38 million inhabitants, and provide daily transportation service to about 1.9
million passengers. However, it carries less than half the passengers it was
expected to serve, offers a very poor level of service, requires an average
subsidy of US$700 million/year from the GOB and is not reaching the modal share
initially targeted for the system (15%). This target could be easily achieved
if it were operating properly. CBTU is therefore, falling short of the goals for
which it was created.
2.2   Although  CBTU carries less than 8% of all motorized trips in the MRs, it
serves the most poor areas of the MRs, penetrates most city centers and has an
estimated repressed demand (simply due to lack of capacity as present prices),
in both Sao Paulo and Rio of an estimated 1,000,000 pass/day each. This is the
result of an inefficient operation due to frequent disruptions of the system
caused by equipment shortages and failures, power supply and overhead catenary
problems, lack of appropriate signalling to decrease headways and frequent



accidents in the rail right of way. The weak financial situation of CBTU is a
result of poor cost recovery mechanisms such as very low tariffs (normally 1/3
of tho bus tariffs for equivalent trip lengths), fare evasion, a non-commercial
oriented management, lack of appropriate cost accounting and financir.1
managemenit, very weak inventory management which affects spare part and rolling
stock availability and inexistent staff and line rationalization strategies. All
of CBTU's subdivisions are being examined in the light of present and potential
ridership, and replacement by more cost effective modes is being evaluated where
appropriate.
B.  The Condition of the.ABU Syst9ems
2.3  WJille the systems in Recife and
Belo Horizonte are quite modern and
inspired by recent European urban rail
systems, the networks operated in Sao          CBTU RIDERSHIP INCOME PROFILE
Paulo and Rio (Table 2.1) are old and            ( Of RIDERS WITH INCOME I)
in very poor condition, lack adequate             % OF TOTAL RIDERSHIP
rolling stock and suffer from frequent                          36
operating disruptions.   Ironically,        40 -                      20   22
these are the lines which carry more         ..........
than 90% of the overall CBTU's daily
ridership. In both megacities, CBTU's s.
ridership  consists  mainly  of  the *
lowest income groups who live in the    .
fringes of the MR (more than 73% and                   # OF MINIMUM WAGES
58% of CBTU-RJ and CBTU-SP  ridership                 URIo de Janeiro   Sao PaulO
respectively earn less than 3 minimum
wages  lg.o3). Since  1984, the  1.2   Mwnlnum W.M*/a*nI.;v*
million pass./day ridership in Rio de
Janeiro has been decreasing mainly due
to the lack of peak-hour capacity and  Figure 3
in  1991  was  reduced  to  700,000
pass./day. In CBTU- SP, the ridership
went up from about 712,000 in 1984 to about 966,000 pass./day in 1991 and cannot
grow unless there is an increase in train capacity.   In Rio, the ridership
increased every time a new train was introduced, suggesting that train capacity
there too is a major ridership determinant. However, any major investment effort
making the CBTU sustainable must be linked to its decentralization to improve,
among other things, the institutional framework for interaction between the three
levels of government, modal integration, and financial management as discussed
below.
C. The Institutional Constraints of the CBTU
2.4 Over the years, CBTU operations (under federal jurisdiction) have become
increasingly distant from the needs of its ridership and its management had both
insufficient resources and lack of autonomy to improve the quality of service
offered. Operational policy, administrative directives, personnel management,
and most important, the allocation of short and long term financial resources,
are dictated from a distance and inevitably fluctuate with the changing
political, economic and financial scenarios of incoming and outgoing federal
administrations. Every year industrial action by striking unions, or physical
breakdowns of CBTU's systems in Rio and Sao Paulo alone result in paralyzing rail



- 9 -
transport, with consequent chaos in road based public transport and traffic
management in the MRs, leading to significant losses in economic productivity.
Since May  1990,  CBTU has been under  a new management and  considerable
improvements have been made (see para 2.9).   However, these gains will be
shortlived unless the institutional framework is changed to improve the
interaction and "modus-operandill between the three levels of government, within
the context of supporting policy reforms and the plant and equipment are
rehabilitated to provide an acceptable level-of-service to the main user.
Table 2.1:   COMPARATIVE DATA FOR THE CBTU-RJ AND CBTU-SP NETWORKS
CHRCERISTIC."T-JCEI.S 
Track Extension (km)                       739                     407
Rolling Stock (EMUs)                       358                     180
J of Stations & Stops                       127                     59
Average * of pass/day (000's)               660                     940
Employees (Dec/90) Total number          11,298                   4,457
Of which Operating        9,025                   3,802
Pass. x km/day (1991) (000's)            14,786                  13,028
Costs/pass.km US$ (1991)                  0.054                   0.026
lSonthly Cost US$ (000's)                 9.640                   3.988
Working Ratio (Z)                           934                     423
Source: CBTU
July 1991
2.5 There is a general consensus for the need of a three-pronged approach to
(a) decentralize the responsibility for policy and operations of the CBTU to the
local level as mandated by the Constitution; (b) set up a Local Coordination
Agency (LCA) i  each MR, recognized by all levels of government, and with the
authority and also the means to promote and ensure modal integration; and (c)
introduce appropriate reforms (such as efficient pricing, lack of entry barriers
and other deregulation). A well managed decentralized CBTU can be sustainable,
if the LCA is effective. Ideally, the LCA should be a consensus building body
which prioritizes investments, promotes modal integration and allocates subsidies
in a quasi deregulated environment, and not a command/control agency. The LCA
would have representatives from each level of government, the operators, and the
users. Furthermore, this agency would have the responsibility to advise and
recommend the allocation of resources in response to market forces and within
specific targeted poverty alleviation objectives. This type of coordinating
entity exists in major cities throughout the world but not in Brazil. Hitherto,
the main barrie;s to the creation of such entities in Brazil, have been the
reluctance at each level of government, to give up traditional control of
investment resource allocation within their respective jurisdictional areas.
The absence of such LCAs to plan, evaluate and prioritize urban transport sector
policy investments in the MRs, is also the main obstacle to effective physical
and tariff modal integration.



- 10 -
D. Modal Integration and the CBTU
2.6 CBTU subdivisions are not well integrated with the other urban transport
modes except in Sao Paulo where a major effort promoted and sustained by the
METRO has resulted in good physical and tariff integration between the several
modes. The construction of well located transfer terminals was the catalyst for
such an efficient integration. The next step for Sao Paulo must be to consolidate
the policy coordination and
management of the CBTU and
FEPASA (Trem  Metropolitano)                  AVERAGE # OF PASSENGERS/DAY
systems,   and  review   the              TRANSPORTED BY CBTU-RJ AND CBTU-SP
medium    and    long    term               o. MSOENOERSOAY
transportation needs :f that            1200_
megacity. In Rio de Jeneiro,              1-                           . c
there is very little modal              oo |                       . t    ...
integration    and    this              Go
discourages the use of two or
more  complementary  modes,               0-
increasing   therefore   the            20     l
overall  tariff  for  those 
1084   1086   1086   187   158    1983   1010   n100
users who are forced to use                              YEAR
two modes to get to work. In                         CBTU-SP = C8TU.RJ
general, the lack of modal
integration   has   affected          SOURMCBTU
considerably the ridership of Figure 4
all CBTU systems. In Belo
Horizonte (DEMETRO) and in
Recife (TRANSREC), both systems have been recently modernized but suffer the
consequences of inadequate modal integration. Similarly, Porto Alegre's rail
system (TRENSURB) financed by the Bank's Second Urban Transport Project also
suffers from this lack of modal integration. As a result of poor coordination
between the different levels of government and of agencies involved in its
planning and operations, its ridership1/ is well below original forecasts
contributing to growing financial deficits.   Modal integration of the urban
transport systems serving the MRs ought to be a top priority in the sector and
the proposed project includes several measures to assure better integration of
CBTU with the other modes.
E. Present Financial Situation of CBTU
2.7 As in most urban rail systems throughout the world, CBTU requires, at
present, massive annual subsidies to operate (average US$708 million/year during
the 1988-1990 period).  The shortfall in CBTU revenues is mainly due to low
tariffs, which are lower than its working costs and are Government imposed for
"social"' reasons; and also to high tariff evasion (almost llZ of ridership) due
to lack of adequate control at stations.  Until recently, CBTU tariffs were
controlled by the Federal Government and in general, were 1/3 of the urban bus
1J While modal integration is desirable and recommended, it can only succeed in increasing
ridership if the user sees considerable financial advantages in utilizing the combined transport
option, and the bus operators see financial advantages in serving the rail stations, and the
regulatory agency encourages such integration.



- 11 -
tariffs in the MR. Unlike CBTU, the urban bus tariff, the intermunicipal bus
tariffs and the metro and FEPASA tariffs are set by either the municipality or
the State. The FEPASA metropolitan train (state owned) charges tariffs which
are, traditionally, 2 to 3 times higher than CBTU's tariff, but it offers a
better level of service. Based on recent train surveys of the CBTU ridership,
the latter will be willing to pay a tariff comparable to the one charged by
FEPASA, if the service improves.
2.8 In 1990, while CBTU farebox revenue was US$0.11/passenger, its working
cost/passenger, i.e., the cost, not including depreciation and cost of capital,
was US$0.96. The ratio between working costs and operating revenues (working
ratio) was respectively 9.2, 14.8 and 8.7 in 1988, 1989 and 1990. Table 2.2
shows condensed income statements for CBTU as a whole for 1988, 1989 and 1990.
It also shows a breakdown of Government subsidies to the system.  During the
1988-1990 period, the Federal Government subsidized 1002 of working costs, 100%
of capital improvements (such as new equipment), and 100% of the debt service.
It covered, however, only 80% of the operating costs because it did not pay for
all the depreciation and interest costs.
2.9 The total subsidy per paying passenger in the CBTU system ranged from $1.50
to $1.37 from 1988 to 1990. In August 1991, the Government liberated the tariffs
and is allowing CBTU to adjust them more in line with the other transport modes,
reserving, however, the right of an ex-post review. Furthermore, CBTU has also
been allowed to practice different tariffs in different subdivisions instead of
a single tariff across all subdivisions. CBTU new management also embarked on
a cost reduction program including a staff rationalization program, which reduced
personnel from 22,900 to 17,600 since March 1990.
2.10 The improvement of CBTU's financial situation can only be achieved through
a combination of higher paying passenger demand, tariffs which are as close to
working costs as possible, and a comprehensive cost reduction program.   The
higher demand exists since there is, at present, repressed demand.  However, to
materialize this demand and to increase revenues, a better and more reliable
level of service is required and tariff evasion must be reduced or eliminated.
This can only be achieved byJ a rehabilitation of track and stations, equipment
and systems. The higher tariffs, closer to working costs, are possible and in
the last year, the tariff has advanced from 10% to 20% of working costs.
Although this is a substantial increase, it is far from what is necessary to
decrease dependency on subsidies (paras. 4.10-4.15). Tariffs should progress,
as fast as they can, to 60-70% of an acceptable working cost. However, it is
recognized that, there are affordability issues which are discussed in detail in
Annex 4B.   Notwithstanding those issues,  a higher tariff is possible and
desirable. Finally, a comprehensive cost reduction program is already underway
and requires additional staff cuts, better inventory management and improved
preventive maintenance. All these aspects are taken into account in the proposed
Project.



- 12 -
Table 2.2 C0TU STATEMENT OF INCOME 1988-1990
(millions of US dollars)
|___-_-__________________ ..       Year  ended   Decem*ber  31        May
1988        1989        1990         1991
Paying per day (000)        1.583        1,612       1.542   .
Average fare (US            $0.12       $0.08        $0.11
cents)----
Farebox revenues              $57         S41          $50       $24
Operations subsidy            573         710          532        121
630         751          582        145
Working costs                 524         602          430        108
Interest                      67          189          174          43
Depreciation                   78          54           38          13
0ther, net                    31           99           54           9
_________________________        700          945          695       174
Net loss *                   ($70)      ($194)                   (S29)
_______________________  _        .      _- _-_ _._. _  ($113)  1 1
Workins cost ratio            9.2         14.8         8.7       4.6
.i les:iie.- d. :. :       :.. . .... ..  .-.    ..
Operational-                 .      .__          _
Working costs              $524        S602         $430        108
Interest                    49          108          102          12
Depreciation                  0           0            0           0
____________ __  573       710          532         121
Capital-                            .      .                .   _._.
Debt payTmnts                51          35           56 _
Investment                  90           33           44
141          68          100           0
Total subsidies              $714        $778         S632       S121
Operational-            __._.                    _
Working costs               100%        100%        100%       100%
Interest                    74%         57X          59%         29%
Depreciation                  0X         0X           0%          0%
_____________________  .  .86%             84%          83%         73%
Capital-                             -                        .
Oebt payments               100%        100%         100%      100%
Investment                  100%       100%         100%       100%
Capital subsidy               100%        100%        100%       100%
88X        85X          85X       73x
patSsengert: . .    .:: . : .  .           .. ____ _._.__=
Operating.                   $1.21       $1.47       $1.15   .
Capital                       0 30        0.14        0.22
S1.50       S1.61       $1.37 _____
.,       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
File: INCOME.TBL
* Does not include exchange rate and inflation adJustments



- 13 -
F.  De  ntralization of CBTU
2.11 In summary, since the mid 1980's, the CBTU has lost more than 1 million
passengers/day in its Rio and S. Paulo subdivisions which, at present, are only
transporting 1.5 million passengers/day. This is the result of an inefficient
operation due to frequent disruptions of the system caused by equipment shortages
and failures, power supply and overhead catenary problems, lack of appropriate
signalling to decrease headways and frequent accidents which disrupt rail
sezA.ices. The deferred maintenance pattern experienced by CBTU is due to poor
maintenance policies and a weak financial situation resulting from: (a) a heavy
dependence on the cash-strapped federal government for operating subsidies; (b)
poor cost recovery mechanisms such as very low tariffs and fare evasion; (c) a
lack of appropriate cost accounting and financial management; (d) very weak
inventory management which affects spare part and rolling stock availability and
(e) non-existent staff and line rationalization strategies.
2.12 The GOB has decided to transfer sub-divisions of the CBTU to the respective
States and has set itself a December 1993 deadline to accomplish this goal. To
facilitate this decentralization, it has decided to embark on an urgent physical
rehabilitation and financial restructuring program for the CBTU-SP and thereafter
the CBTU-RJ subdivision, through which it intends to improve overall operational
performance and, reduce operating expenses, and has approached the Bank for
financial and technical support. The rationale for such strategy is that CBTU's
transfer to the States will allow local Governments direct participation in their
planning and operations, better monitoring and integration with other urban
transport services under their jurisdiction in the MRs and, consequently, will
lead to cost-efficiency gains which, when combined with policy and tariff
reforms, will improve the level of service and produce a substantial reduction
of government subsidies to rail transport.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives and Rationale
3.1 The broad objectives of the project are to lay the foundations for the
financial, institutional and organizational policy changes required to achieve
sustainable, integrated multimodal transport in the Metropolitan Regions of
Brazil. The specific objectives for the proposed first CBTU project are: (a) to
support the Federal Government in its efforts to transfer the CBTU-SP subdivision
to the State of Sao Paulo in order to enhance its management and operations; (b)
to strengthen institutional, organizational and financial policy reforms in the
CBTU-SP to assure its long-term financial sustainability (including crst-
efficiency gains, improved multimodal integration, expanded capacity, and
substantial reduction in subsidies); and (c) to contribute to poverty alleviation
and environmental improvement (facilitating access to work, decreasing trip time
to work, the reduction of congestion, and the reduction of accidents and
fatalities through the provision of safer and more comfortable rail transport).
3.2 The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil is to support policies and
investments that will encourage economic growth and social development in a
context of macroeconomic stability.   Our emphasis is on efficient resource
allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the appropriate
targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor.  The proposed project



- 14 
objectives are in line with these objectives, namely: (a) to promote financial
viability of public enterprises and their reform, including decentralization to
various levels; (b) to contribute to poverty alleviation; and (c) to reduce
Government subsidies through better cost recovery policies. From a multimodal
perspective and given the forecast peak hour demand, the average trip length and
the cost of alternative modal options,   CBTU's rehabilitation will produce
quicker and higher benefits than projects in other modes.  Furthermore, the
proposed project is in agreement with the GOB's stated desire to transfer urban
transport to thle states and municipalities and improve the efficiency of delivery
of urban transportation services. Through its involvement in the preparation of
this project, the Bank has already helped in accelerating the decentralization
process and will facilitate the process of cormpletion. At the same time, it will
stimulate a thorough review and improvements of sub-sector policies--particularly
cost-recovery, financing and modal integration--at the federal, state and
municipal levels.
B.  Project Description
3.3 The project includes an Investment Ccmponent (IC) and an Institutional
Development (ID) component. The IC component (90% of the loan) includes civil
works and goods to implement the proposed rehabilitation of stations, track,
rolling stock, signalling, power supply, telecommunications, fencing of the right
of way, traffic engineering equipment and construction of transfer points
required to integrate CBTU with other modes. The ID component (10% of the loan)
will consist of the development and implementation of policies and action
programs to: a) establish organizational, financial and institutional reforms as
a basis for improved cost recovery, including the implementation of a plan of
action for the transfer of those remaining viable CBTU subdivisions to their
reGspective states; (b) operationalize multi-modal and tariff integration between
CBTU-SP, FEPASA (Metropolitan Train) feeder bus systems and non-motorized
vehiclees, introduce long run variable cost based fare structures which reflect
peak and off peak services and to improve targeting of subsidies; (c) identify
an investment program to consolidate the rehabilitation and decentralization in
SP; (d) study and recommend different management alternatives, technical
improvements and financial reforms for improving the operating efficiency of the
FEPASA and the CMTC (SP), as well as similar studies for each of the remaining
operating subdivisions including a review of management contracts and franchising
or concessions to the private sector; and (e) provide techlnical and management
training to CBTU employees as recommended in the organization and manpower
development studies (and after decentralization to the staff of each operating
agency), and staff of selected other transport agencies participating in the
project.
C. Proiect Comionents
The Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan
3.4 CBTU's decentralization is not by itself a guarantee that the individual
subdivisions will be better managed than its predecessors.  A package   of
institutional and policy reforms are needed to induce modernization changes and
motivate management and staff, but also the financial management and
administration, especially in regard to cost recovery mechanisms of the system.
Otherwise, the vicious cycle for another emergency program of rehabilitation
will repeat itself with all the negative impacts on the ridership and on the MR



- 15 -
as a whole. Furthermore, actions are needed to change the environment in which
CBTU operates in order to facilitate the modal integration and sustainability
desired in the long term.  The basic sub-components of the institutional and
policy package proposed are described in detail in Annex 3A and are summarized
belowt
(i)     Decentralization:  The first set of strategic Actions Plans concerns
the  actual   decentralization  process:   (a)   institutional   and
organizational arrangements; (b) patrimonial-agreement on the
valuation and assets to transferred; (c) aspects relating to transfer
of personnel, pension benefits, and miscellaneous human resource-
related   issues;   (d)   legal  and   administrative   aspects   for
decentralization; (e) financial and economic aspects including a study
of short and long-term financial impacts of the transfer; (f)
engineering-focused on a detailed hand-over timetable of rehabilitated
rail sections; (g) physical integration - with on-going infrastructure
projects by the host municipalities (including the construction of
some bus terminals with the participation of the private sector, and
bicycle storage facilities).
(ii)     Management:  The second set of Action Plans are designed to improve
the management of the new CBTU subdivisions: (a) preparation and
implementation of a manpower development plan, to streamline the
management and operations staff in each of the new subdivisions, to
propose concise job descriptions and to staff them accordingly; (b)
a cost accounting, management information systems and financial
management study and implementation so that timely and adequate cost
management is possible; (c) preparation of an action plan to improve
inventory management since lack of spares is one of the main causes
for the low rolling stock availability rates; (d) preparation of an
action plan to subcontract maintenance and other operations to the
private sector; (e) preparation of an action plan to increase non-
operating revenues by renting station space, advertising and
development of subdivision's real estate; (f) technical assistance and
training for staff at all levels as proposed in the manpower plan.
(iii)     Modal Integration:  The objective of the third set of Action Plans is
to     support  the  policy  framework,  and  provide  practical
recommendations for implementing modal integration. These studies will
also include a review of existing transport agencies with a view to
reducing cross-inefficiencies across modes: (a) a tariff study focused
on  achieving  multi-modal   tariff   integration,   including   its
operationalization; (b) updating of the Transport portion of the
Master Plans of the City of SP with emphasis on route rationalization
modal and tariff integration; (c) CMTC management and route
rationalization study; (d) FEPASA's operations and management and
integration study.
Some of these studies will be combined. This component will also include for
training and technical assistance of the relevant sector staff of the CBTU-SP,
and staff of participating agencies in the LCA, as set out in Annex 3A.



16 -
The Rehabilitation Progratu
3.5 This program is designed to rehabilitate the infrastructure and equipment
of CBTU-SP to a level which will allow it to meet the operational and financial
targets indicated in para. 3.22, and can be summarized as follows:
SAO PAULO SYSTEM (CBTU-SP)
3.6  The track rehabilitation program would consist of: (a) infrastructure works
including improvement of drainage systems on about 13 line-km, the rehabilitation
of 6 small bridges and 43 m of culverts, the construction of 3 and rehabilitation
of 4 pedestrian overpasses, the construction of about 1,200 M2 of retaining walls
and of 6,800 m of fences along the right of way; (b) superstructure works
including the replacement of sleepers, fastenings, ballast and rail switches,
on specific sections, for a total of about 244 line-km (Santos-Jundiat, Leste
main and Leste bypass corridors)t(AP IBRD 23134); and (c) rehabilitation of track
maintenance equipment and related spare parts for maintenance. The passenger
stations program would consist of the modernization/rehabilitation of 19 stations
including fences.
3.7 The rolling stoc'x program would consist of: (a) the rehabilitation of 12
EMUs; (b) the modernization of 37 ENUs and (c) the acquisition of eight second
hand and/or remanufactured diesel locomotives.   The workshop program would
consist of: (a) the construction of a small depot for maintenance of heavy track
equipment  (Lapa), and of a depot for the mat-tenance of EMUs;           (b) the
acquisition of plant equipment for workshops; and (c) the construction of a
laboratory for the repair and testing of electrical components, including related
plant equipment.
3.8 The signalling program would consist of: (a) reinstalling track circuits
on 10 track sectors which cover about 31 km of line in order to decrease the
headway; (b) acquiring 51 point machines to modify some installations and provide
a standby reserve; (c) installing signalling in 2 lines with the RFFSA network;
(d) equipping about 85 km of line with ATS; (e) replacing 54 km of cable; and (f)
renewing the centralized traffic control systems on about 130km of line. The
telecommunications program will consist of: (a) installing an integrated
telecommunications system on the overall network as well as on the secondary
cable network; (b) installing a track telephone system, a track-to-train radio
system and indication panels in 14 stations; (c) installing train loudspeaker
systems in 26 stations and on 114 trains.  The electrification program will
consist in repairing approximately 940 overhead contact line attachments and to
improve the distribution by installing 31 network switching devices.
D. Proiect Organization and Imiplementation
3.9 The project will be managed by a special Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
created in CBTU for managing the execution of the project (see Chart 2). CBTU and
the State agreed that the PIU will continue to manage the execution of the
project after the Operational Transfer of the CBTU-SP system to the State. This
will ensure the continuity of project management experience acquired prior to
Operational Transfer and will prevent delays which could occur due to an eventual
change of the project implementation team before the conclusion of the project.
To manage and guide the "non-hardware" aspects (political, legal, administrative,
institutional, and so forth), through the transition and until December 1993, an



- 17 
intergovernmental General Coordination Committee will coordinate the work of a
number of task forces, which will carry out strategic studies on terms of
reference agreed with the bank during negotiations.
3.10 Actual execution of the various action programs would be the responsibility
of CBTU's respective Directorates, with support from CBTU-SP and with appropriate
external technical assistance. The Federal Government through CBTU, the State
of SP through its State Secretary of Metropolitan Transport and, in some cases,
the Municipality of SP, will participate jointly in most of the action programs.
A separate and independent Monitoring and Audit consultant will be contracted,
reporting directly to the President of CBTU.
3.11 During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on: (a) project staffing
of the PIU which will include a unit chief with project management and
engineering experience in projects of this type, a procurement specialist, a
financial analyst and a transport systems planner; (b) on the type of project
management information system (PMIS) package required to monitor the execution
of the project and the type of reports to be submitted to the Bank ; and on the
Implementation Program which is a schedule of the CBTU Project Agreement.
E. Im,lementation Schedule
3.12 The GOB and the State of SP have given high priority to this project, and
its implementation has been scheduled over a five-year period (1992-1996),
compared with the Bank's average disbursement profiles for similar projects (6.5
years). An overall implementation schedule and a specific procurement schedule
are shown in Annex 3F. Key events leading to decentralization are scheduled as
shown in Chart 1.
3.13 CBTU's management believes it has the technical capabilities and expertise
required to implement the project during a shorter period than proposed by the
Bank, i.e. 1992-1994, subject to the availability of counterpart funds. An
alternative cost-table for such accelerated option is shown in Annex 7. Provided
the Bank's guidelines for procurement are followed, the Bank would not have any
objection to a shorter implementation period and in accelerating the disbursement
schedule.
F. Project Cost and Financing
3.14 The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$281.0 million
including physical and price conti.ngencies, with an estimated foreign cost of
US$167.6 million or about 59.6% of total cost. Taxes and duties are expected to
account for about 14% of total costs or US$39.2 million equivalent.   Total
project cost includes US$12.0 million for the policy and institutional
development action plan, and US$269.0 million for the rehabilitat-!on program
(table on the next page and tables Ti to T5 at back of SAR).   Physical
contingencies add up to US$23.2 million, or 9.6% of the base cost,, and price
contingencies are estimated at US$17.1 million or 6.5% of the base cost plus
.9!I 



- 18 -
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 3.1:  CBTU-SP: Project Coat Estimates and Bank Flnancing
(US$ million equivalent)
Sao Paulo
Bank Par_olpatlo 
. ~~~~~~_                              .1...._Eai6CPl_    
CBTU-SP PROJECT                     Local   Forelgn                           . Taxes  ,    S$   %of Total
A - Civil Works
a- Rehab. of P.Way Infras.         3.900    2.100       .      0.720  .:0000    2.112       .4;;
b Rehab. of P.Way Supers.          0.000    0.000              .000       ooo    00         :4
- Track Renewal         o0.000    0.000                       .,000 00000                   40
d Track Construction               1.59a   0.858                . 0283 .  .     0.88   .      0
e Statlons                         2.935    1.580  .          0542         .     I+8     5689
t-,Workshops                       1.809    0.974.             0.334  ._73    0.980         .0
g - Meot Eletric Systems           0.850    0.457             0.157  0 1,307    0.460
h - Inst. of Signaling Systems  6   .419    3.4571                    . .876    3.476   : 40F
I- Inst.ot Telecommunications Syste   10.745    5.788 . 4.548   1.984  1-,530    5.819 .     40
Sub-total Civil Works               28.246   1.2105       21    5.215  *43.456   15.297  . 
B - Materials                      __.___
a- Rails                           0.000    0.000             0.000 0   000     0.000     _00
b- Sleepers                        2.740    1.478      380.  0,718   4*24    3.500   .   .
o - Fastenings                     3.006    7.015     .-8;31t7  1.704 .   01.    8.317 117
d - Ballast                        0.884    0.476       1     0.163       .    . 0.000
e-Turnouts                         0.149    0.349                      0.085    0413   .
-Other                            0.578    1.348      1.98   0.327    1925    1.588        10.
Sub-total Materials                 _ 7.363   1 0.865  .15 6031   2.097   18028   13.834
C - Equipment
a - Telecommunications            11.690   27.276    32.341   6.624 .38985. 12.936           40
b - Eletric Systoms                2.055    4.798    -.        1 t15  : . 1    2 275 
c - Signaling                      6.764   15.760     1       3.827      ;      7.475        40
d - Track Machinerv                1.104    3.313     .86   0.751   .44.7 38668 .
o - Workshop Machinery             1.192    2.781   . a       0.675         3    .298
I - Locomotives                    1.400    4.200       .     0872 .6.          0000           .
Sub-total Equipment                 24.195   58.125.. 08.808  13.714 .220 29.649
D - Mechanical Works                               .         . ..           -_.
a - Rehab./Modern. EMVs           19.774   59.322    leg0    9.49,2  .79;096   38.874   .-
b - Rehabilitation of Wagons       0.000    0.000       . 0000   0.000     600.0  0.000      0:O
c - Rehab. of Track Machinery      0.000    0.000     0;000   0.000 .     o.0.     0.000    100
Sub-total Mechanical Works          19.774   59.322    8.904   9.492 . 7949.  38.874 .   .'.. 
E - Technical Assistance
a - Supervision of Invest. Program  7.180    0.000     8 305t0.859                         :B1.0 3.150
b - Project Monitoring             0.508    0.218     0,83    0.087     . .     0.473 37.
o - Studies and Technical AssIstance    5.689    3.063  .     1.050    ..752 5.699  .    :74
Sub-total Technical Assistance      13.357    3.281     4        1.997   AS3      9.322  ..
F - TralnIn-                         0.655    0.281      .2    0.112  j      ;95 0.634  . :.: .7.
~~ ...i~*:.c.*~**~*    ~883   :0bY 94               .              1cV.810 = 
PhyvIcal ContingencIeE              11.351   11.9021.  20.010   3.243                       3.425a210.0833.
Price Contingencies                  8.374    8.779     4       2.393   i 7.13   . 7.870 .  , .
..loI         a -  .   .-    -  _            ,     .  _         _    . .,113.315  167..64    2..41.717r .39,    2089.  . __ .
Source: COMU                                                                             lincosrr.wkl



- 19 -
physical contingencies$ estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule (an
estimated implementation period of 5 years), and of the following forecast of
price escalation for both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollarss
1.8 Z in 1992, 1.9% in 1993, 3.9% in 1994, 4.92 in 1995, and 4.2% in 1996. Base
costs correspond to June 1991 prices. The costs of goods are based upon supplier
quotations for similar Brazilian made and recent prices of imported items. The
cost of civil works for track rehabilitation and workshop buildings are based
upon detailed engineer designs and prevailing unit prices; however, the final
designs for stations scheduled for the first year of the project would be ready
for board presentation; only preliminary engineering designs for stations at plus
or minus 20% have been considered at this stage. Cost eatimates for consultant
services are based upon prevailing local and foreign man-month rates; they
provide for the cost of local transport, office equipment and other minor items
and, where appropriate, international travel and per-diem.
3.15 The project would be financed from the proposed Bank loan of US$126.0
million (or 45.7% of the project cost), and Federal Governmen'i contributions of
about US$155.0 million equivalent or 55% of the project cost. (tables Tl to T6).
During loan negotiations, agreement should be reached on: (a) the project
financing plan; and (b) the guarantee of the GOB regarding all necessary
counterpart funds for the project.
G. Procurement
3.16 All project components financed under the proposed Bank loan would be
procured in accordance with " Bank's Guidelines for Procurement" (May 1985).
Details are shown in the following summary table:



- 20 -
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
ESTIMATED COE, IN US$ MILLION 1/
Expenditure Category            Procurement Methods         N.B.F.   TOTAL
4/  COST
ICB       LCB      OTHER       4/      _GOST_
A. Civil Works and            107.9      24.5        _                132.4
Systems                      (36.5)     (8.5)                         (45.0)
B. Materials                  18.5                            1.5      20.0
(15.4)                                  (15.4)
C. Equipment                  14.7                                     14.7
(6.6)                                    (6.6)
D. Mechanical Works           93.6                   _                 93.6
(46.0)                                  (46.0)
E. Technical                                       19.3                19.3
Assistance2/                                   (12.3)              (12.3)
F. Training
Travel and Expenses3/                           0,5                 0.6
(0.4)              (0.4)
Consultants                                     0.5                 0.5
(0.4)            _(0.4)
TOTAL            234.6      24.5      20.4       1.5     281.0
(104.4)     (8.5)    (13.1)             (126.0)
.r/ Figures in parenthesis indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
V Consulting services.
3/ Items not involving procurement.
4/ Not Bank-financed.
3.17 Procurement procedures would be as follows:
(a) contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$300,000 equivalent
each, and contracts for civil works including systems, and mechanical works
estimated to cost more than US$5.0 million equivalent each, would be
procured through ICB procedures in accordance with Bank's guidelines. In
ICB procurement of goods, local bidders would. be granted a margin of
preference by adding 15% (or the applicable custom duties, whichever is
lower)  to the CIF value of the foreign bids21.   A'though it is not
foreseen, the procurement of any goods below US$300,000 may eventually be
procured through LCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5
million; (b) civil works of US$5.0 million equivalent or less, up to an
aggregate amount of US$24.5 million (Table 3.2) would be awarded through
local competitive bidding procedures and foreign bidders would have the
opportunity to compete; in additiorn, prequalification procedures would be
2/ A local bidder ts a Brazilian firm (or a consortium) offering goods containing components
manufactured In Brazil and representing at least 50% of the value of the complete good5.



- 21 -
followed for the procurement of all contracts for civil works,
rehabilitation/ modernization of EMUs, electrification, signaling and
telecommunications (rolling stock and systems being turn-key jobs); and
(c) consultants, which are expected to aggregate to about US$19.8 million
(including supervision of investment under the project), would be selected
and engaged following the Bank's "Guidelines for the use of Consultants"
(August 1981).
3.18 All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or
more, and all contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5.0
million or more, which overall represent about 83% of all Bank-financed goods and
civil works, would be subject to the Bank's prior review of the procurement
documentation. CBTU's management has the capabilities to handle adequately the
procurement processes required for this project. During appraisal, agreement was
reached with CBTU: (i) on the use of standard bidding documents for the
procurement of goods and/or civil works, under LCB and ICB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, and of the guidelines for the selection of consultants;
a standard letter of invitation and contract will be agreed at negotiations; and
(ii) that no later than January 1, 1992, CBTU would send to the Bank for review
a complete set of bidding documents to be used as samples for all ICB (in
english) and LCB tenders under the project. The two firet LCB contracts before
and after decentralization takes place, regardless of value, will be reviewed by
the Bank. Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)     prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
(b)     comprehens re quarterly reports to the Bank by the borrower (assisted
by connultants), indicating:
*    revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project,
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingency;
*    revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion time for individual contracts;
*    compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement;
and
(b)     a completion report by the borrower within three months of loan's
closing date.
H. Disbursement. Accounts and Audits
3.19 Disbursements of the Bank loan have been scheduled over a five year period
(1992-1996) (Table T6 "disbursements"). Within the 45Z level of cost-sharing,
the Bank loan would be disbursed for: (a) works: (i) civil works (rehabilitation
of track infra/superstructure, stations, workshop buildings, electrification,
signalling and telecommunications, at a rate of 40Z of total expenditures; and
(ii) rolling stock (rehabilitation and modernization of EMUs and wagons) at a
rate of 56% of total expenditures; (b) goods (purchases of impregnated timber,
fastenings, turno'uts, rail welding portions, insulated joints and track
maintenance and workshop equipment) at a rate of 1002 of CIF costs of foreign
expenditures or, for bids awarded to local manufacturers, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs excluding taxes); (c) tecmnical assistance; and



- 22 -
(d) training of personnel, at a rate of 50% of local consultants residing in
Brazil and for training in Brazil, or 100X of foreign expenditures for other
consultants and for training abroad.
3.20 In order to reduce the time period during which CBTU would pre-finance the
Bank's share of project costs, two Special Accounts in US dollars, with initial
deposits of US$10.0 million and US$1.0 million respectively, would be established
in the Central Bank and in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, for the foreign and
local expenditures respectively. Withdrawals of expenditures against contracts
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more, and all
contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5.0 million would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), certified by CBTUI the
supporting documentation would be retained by CBTU and would be available for
review during project supervision.   Retroactive financing amounting to no more
than US$10.0 million would be permitted for project related expenditures incurred
after September 1, 1991.
3.21 During loan negotiations, it was confirmed that CBTU has made provisions
for: (a) counterpart funds required for project expenditures according to work
and procurement schedules; (b) continuing to retain independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, to audit its accounts, including the projects accounts,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles; (c) forwarding the annual
audit reports to the Bank not later than four months after the end of the fiscal
year; and that (d) the Special Account would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
I. Proect MonitorinR and Reporting
3.22 Three levels of project monitoring are envisaged, in addition to the
independent Monitoring and Audit under the Office of the President (para. 3.10),
and will be agreed during loan negotiations:
(a)     Project implementation : would be monitored against a targeted time-
schedule, starting well in advance in February 1992 with the
completion of bidding documents, and thereafter with the issuance of
bid invitations for the various project components, followed by
contract awards and project execution ending June 30, 1996 (Annex 3F)
and key events towards decentralization.
(b)     Operational Performance Targets:  would  include the physical  and
operational performance targets shown below in Table 3.3).



- 23 
Table 3.3: OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE TARGETS
i   _
~~~~                 :99i~. :.19  -'9        1994  '99        19
Pass. Transported (000's)Ida_   940   1,015   1,040  1 197  1 260    1j260
Track Rehab. (ktm)               19      121     104
Headway (minutes)       Min. 10 Min. 10 Min. 10   Min. 8    Min. 8    Mln. 8
_____________________________  Max. 12 Max. 12 Max. 12  Max. 10  Max. 10  Max. 10
Availability of EMUs (X)"  79    80      84       87       87        87
Utitization of EMUs (%)2'  98    98      98       98       98        98
Staff (# of employees)   4f457   4,457    4 457    457    445   _,457
1/ Ratio between available and existing fleet. An EMU is a standard trainset used in peak hour operation.
2/ Ratio between fleet in operation plus reserves and fleet available.
Source: CBTU
July 1991
(c)     Financial Performance Targets:   they will be the basis for the
monitoring of the financial performance of the project. CBTU's
financial performance and that of CBTU-SP, would gradually improve
with the project as a result of the proposed physical and operating
improvements, tariff adjustments and increased passenger traffic.
Farebox revenues will increase by 361% in CBTU-SP from 1990 to 1996.
During the five-year project implementation period, the working ratios
(the ratio of working costs divided by farebox revenues plus other
operating revenues) of CBTU-SP are projected to decline from 4.23 in
1990 to 1.0 in 1996. Even though traffic is expected to increase by
53% in CBTU-SP, operating subsidy payments will gradually decrease
through the efficiency improvements. Operating subsidy reductions per
paying passenger in the MR of SP are more dramatic, declining from
US$0.30 to US$0.03 in CBTU-SP. Since salaries and wages constitute
more than 50% of total working costs, additional improvements might
occur from a successful implementation of manpower studies financed
under the Project.  The capital subsidy (new investments, ioe the
World  Bank  project,  plus  debt  service)  during  the  project
iraplementation period will be a Federal obligation and will not impact
the CBTU-SP from 1992 to 1996.
Financial performance targets as shown below (Table 3.4) will also be agreed
to during loan negotiations. In view of the tariffs presently charged by the
FEPASA tletropolitan train, which are 3 times those of CBTU in the same
metropolitan region, it is expected that a rehabilitated CBTU-SP will attract the
demand required to achieve the proposed financial targets.  In addition, the
project calls for several changes in the maintenance organization and in the
materials management area.   Those changes are expected to cut costs and
contribute to the achievement of the proposed working ratio targets.   Pro-forma
income statements, balance sheets and sources and applications of funds for CBTU-
SP after the rehabilitation are shown in Annex 5B.



- 24 -
Table 3.4: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TARGETS
fN ~  ~      ~     ~      . -.8Cl>T                    -       -.-    
____   .     .2K.      .*.PK}  .: . . 1991    19 19 9  1994    1995    1996
1. Working Ratio               2.88    1.86    1.42   1.16    1      1
2. Salaries and Wages as X of    58     56      55    51       51      51
working costs
3. Average train fare (in 1991 constant  0.14    0.20    0.25   0.30    0.33    0.33
USS) __                        ___  __.._.__
4. Paying Passengers per day    771    842    874   1,017   1,084   1,084
000)______==                          - .          _.              _..-.
Source: CBTU
July 1991
J.  id-Term Proiect Review
3.23 A Mid-term Project Review: (tentatively recommended for June 1993) will take
place to review preagreed institutional, operational and financial performance
indicators, and compliance with covenants (including tariffs, subsidies, progress
on studies, etc) of the Loan and Project Agreements, to assess project
performance and progress on decentralization and to propose corrective measures,
if any. Particular importance will be given, during the mid-term review, to the
agreed working ratios and the status of the studies and action plans required
to ensure a smooth Operational Transfer.
K. Proiect Economic Evaluation Summary
3.24 As this project was prepared jointly with a possible project for CBTU-RJ,
the economic evaluation of the project was done for CBTU-RJ and CBTU-SP as a
whole and separately. The evaluation was also undertaken for each of the main
corridors in both CBTU-JR and CBTU-SP so as to determine whether any of the
corridors should be dropped from the project. Some assumptions had to be made
in the corridor analysis insofar as rolling stock is concerned, in order to
artificially assign it to each corridor. In addition to the above evaluation,
an analysis of incremental economic rate of return of the electrification of
4.51on of track in CBTU-RJ was also undertaken. The "overall" and "by corridor"
ERR's for the base case are shown in Table 3.5. The evaluation is conservative
and the results show that the S. Paulo rehabilitation project is economically
viable.



25 
Table 3.5: ECONOMIC EVALUATION - CASE (1/)
:orridors.   :         ERR %)    NPV fUSS x 11)8   :. 89C.;
A. GLobaL (RJ and SP)                45          576.6             2.5
B. Rio de Janeiro                    43  6_ 258                    3.1
a- D.Pedro I/Deodoro (2/)
b - D.Pedro II/Sta Cruz            47          106.6             3.2
c - D.Pedro lI/Japeri              53          91.4              3.3
d -Linha Auxiliar                  36          38.4              4.3
e -Leopodina 3/)                 36.5(36.6)  39.9(36.6)       2.3 (4)
C. S. Paulo                          46         309.8              2.2
a NO/Se                            48          179.7             2.6
b - Leste Tronco                   49          82.7              2.1
c - Leste Variante                 48          54.8              2.0
1/ Useful life: 20 years; discount rate; 11%/year
2/ Inctuded in the D.Pedro Il/Sta. Cruz Corridor
3/ Values in parenthesis refer to case without electrification of Graimcho-Saracuruna segment;
4/ Cash flow with all inputs of differential costs negative.
3.25 Substantial quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are expected from
the provision of higher capacity and safer operation by CBTU, namely, operating
cost savings, time savings for the users, reduction of road congestion, less
accidents and fatalities and employment generation through better spatial
integration of markets. There will also be a contribution to the improvement of
air quality and noise pollution, since a great number of riders will switch from
diesel operated buses to the electrified railways which are cleaner and less
noisy. Finally, poverty alleviation will also result from improved accessibility
to employment.  The benefits quantified in the economic evaluation were: (a)
direct benefits such as the reduction of trip cost and the value of time savings,
reduction of the road maintenance cost due to lesser buses, reduction of the
operating costs associated with the traffic control of buses; (b) indirect
benefits such as the reduction of congestion due to lesser buses, reduction of
road accidents and the reduction of environmental pollution.   The indirect
benefits were not included in the base cases evaluated.  They were only used for
sensitivity analysis purposes. The costs quantified in the economic analysis
were: a) the long-run marginal costs of the CBTU-RJ and CBTU-SP operation before
and after the project, which were estimated using standard costs to reflect less
erratic maintenance policies, and b) the economic investment costs of the
program.
3.26 The ERR for the base case of CBTU-SP was 46%. The sensitivity analysis on
traffic forecasts, increased investment costs, deferral of benefits to the fourth
year, etc., produced acceptable results which ranged from 23% (case in which
benefits are deferred to the fourth year and investments cost 10% higher) to 60%
(case in which the benefits faom externalities are added).  A more detailed
description of the economic evaluation is given in Annex SA.
IV. DECENTRALIZATION. INSTITUTIONAL AND FINIIANCIAL POLICY RFORMS
4.1 The transfer of CBTU-SP subdivision from the GOB to the State of Sao Paulo
has been agreed, and formalized through the execution of an Agreement of Intent
(Convenio Ba9ico) on August 30, 1991.



- 26 -
A. Decentralization
4,2  Transitional Phase to Decentralization:   As the successful transfer for
decentralization will be subject to detailed negotiations, and will involve some
political considerations in addition to financial and technical issues, the
detailed steps and transition to decentralization are viewed as a dynamic process
involving the full and transparent participation of all levels of Government.
In order to underpin this process, joint and parallel strategic studies,
administrative and legal actions, organizational changes and key political
decisions would have to be undertaker. in a logical and sequential manner, and
synchronized with the timetable for processing and executing the proposed Bank
Loan and eventually for transfer of the system to SP not later than the target
date of December 31, 1993 (see Charts 1-3).
(a)     General Coordination and Completion of Strategic Studies: immediately
following signature of the Convenio Basico, the General Coordination
Committee (CG) to manage and guide the decentralization process. The
CG will  incorporate  a number  of  task  forces.    The  CG,  with
representatives from the CBTU and SP will report to the Conselho
Diretor through the Representantes Executivos (see Chart 2). The task
forces will work on the strategic studies and Actions Plans (para.
3.4(i)) outlined in the Convenio Basico.   A draft outline of the
detailed terms of reference and an agreed work program, prepared by
CBTU in collaboration with SP respectively, for the task forces on
decentralization (as specified in Clause II, para 6. of the Convenio
Basico) will be submitted to the Bank prior to Negotiations. The
output of these studies will determine the additional contractual
responsibilities of all signatories to the Convenio Basico (in
addition to the provisions under the Loan and Project Agreement).
These will be formalized through the execution of Supplementary
Agreements (Termos Additivos) to the Convenio Basico.
(b)     Transfer to Public Corporations:   in accordance with the Federal
Government's policy for modernization of the economy, and SP's long-
standing tradition for efficiency, the CBTU-SP will be transferred to
a Public Corporation (Sociedade Anonima de Economia Mista). Assurances
will be sought at Negotiations that, not later than June 30, 1993, SP
would set up such Public Corporation, under an independent Board and
management autonomy, and thereafter, not later than December 31, 1993,
the CBTU-SP subdivision will be fully transferred to the Corporation.
The articles of Incorporation would include for, among other things,
that (i) the Corporation will be managed by professionally trained
Chief Executive Officern (CEOs); (ii) the management will adhere to
specific operating financial and performance targets set forth in
annual contract plans; (iii) management will abide by agreed personnel
and administrative policies; and (iv) generally follow sound
commercial practices. Draft Articles for r:he Corporation will be
reviewed by the Bank.
4.3   imetable and Phasing for Decentralization.  The project has been prepared
to take into account the Federal government's objective to complete the legal and
institutional transfer (DECENTRALIZATION) of the CBTU-SP by the target date of
December 31, 1993, although rehabilitation will continue to 1996. However, since



- 27 -
complete decentralization of assets require legislative amendments for which
-approval dates cannot be set with certainty, it was agreed:
a) to introduce an intermediate step herein called "Operational Transfer"
which would permit the transfer to proceed as planned not later than
December 31, 1993, pending approval of legislation to permit the "Ownership
Transfer" of the CBTU-SP system to take place as a second stage.  Both
terms are defined in the legal documents (Section 1.02 (t) and 1.02 (u) of
the LA) as follows;
i) " Operational Transfer" means the effective transfer to the SP
Entity of all management and operational and responsibility and
accountability for the operation and administration of the CBTU-SP
System.
ii) "Ownership Transfer" means the transfer of ownership of the CBTU-
SP System to the SP Entity including the enactment and execution of
all legal, contractual and administrative acts and documents required
under the legislation of the Borrower and the State for these
purposes*
b)   It was agreed to include a specific dated covenant (Section 3.06) in
the Loan Agreement concerning the submission to the Federal Congress on an
amendment to a Bill of Law or of a Bill of Law that would permit the
conclusion of the decentralization process.
c)   The terms of the operational transfer will include a validity period
of 50 years which shall be terminated, after appropriate legal
authorizations are given and put into effect, by the effective transfer of
CBTU-SP System to the SP Entity. The operational transfer will provide the
SP Entity with all the rights and obligations required from the
administration of the system. The terms and conditions of the Operational
Transfer will be set out in a contract to be signed between CBTU and the
SP Entity.
4.4  Contractual Arrangements:   In order to ensure a smooth transition to
decentralization, (the formal legal transfer and start of operations by the SP
Operating Corporation (see para 4.2(a)), and to support its subsequent
consolidation, the following legal arrangements will apply: (See Chart 4.1/Annex
4.c)
With the Banks
(a) Bank and GOB    (Borrower)               Loan Agreement
(b) Bank and CBTU   (Executing Agency)        Project Agreement
(c) Bank and SP      (Operating Corporati6n) Project Agreement
Between Governments and agencies:
(d) GOB and SP               (Convenio Basico and Termos Additivos)
(e) CBTU and SP Entity       (Operational Transfer Contract)
B. Modal Integration
4.5 Bank support for this project was based on early agreement that
institutionalizing a policy of multimodal integration is a "sine qua non" for



- 28 -
this project with the objective of: (a) improving multi-year investment planning
and physical integration of different services, introducing integrated tariff and
operational policies, and strengthening of the regulatory framework for managing
public transport; (b) strengthening the institutional framework and management
of each mode in a parallel and consistent basis to minimize cross-inefficienciesI
and (c) defining a clear role and responsibility for the private sector in the
provision of transport services and related infrastructure in the MRs.
4.6 The project will finance selected studies, which will recommend immediate
actions to be implemented by the state and municipalities of the MR, and form the
basis to facilitate urther reforms in the sector, as follows: (a) an updating
of the existing Master Transportation Plan prepared for the Municipality of SP
(MSP) and the SP Metropolitan Region (SPMR) and a Route Rationalization Study for
the SPMR; (b) a Management Study focussing on policy and an institutional
development action plan of the MSP-owned bus company (CMTC); (c) an operations
and Management Study cf the FEPASA Metropolitan Train to define alternative
options for its future operations, including its integration with the
decentralized CBTU-SP; (d) a study to review the Regulatory framework within
which "concessions" and "permissions" are granted in MSP and SPMR in order to
facilitate the implementation of recommendations of the Route Rationalization
Studies, and (e) a multi-modal tariff integration study.
4.7   A State Secretary of Metropolitan Transport to establish institutional
arrangements on a permanent basis, to plan, coordinate and set priorities for
integrated urban transport in the SPMR was created by SP by Law No. 7.450 on July
16, 1991 and regulatios setting out its organization were established by Decree
No. 34.184 dated Noveember 18, 1991. This was a encouraging first step towards
enhancement of urban transport coordination in the SPMR, one of the main
objectives of the project. At negotiations agreement was reached on (a) the CBTU
and SP will undertake to ensure completion of selected studies before the Mid-
Term Project Review, so that an Action Plan on the agreed recommendations can be
implemented; and b) that, not later than 12 months from the date of signing of
the Loan Agreement, the State of Sao Paulo will present a plan (financial,
technical and institutional) and a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
transfer, integration into the SP corporation, and consolidation of the
metropolitan train system (FEPASA).
C. Financial Policy
4.8  Poverty,  Affordability  and Subsidies:    The  growing crisis  in urban
transportation in 1razil, especially in all the MRs demands a close look at
alternatives for financing services in a more predictable and sustainable way
while, at the same time, targeting subsidies more directly to low-income
ridership.   The various initiatives already underway within CBTU to improve
efficiency (see paras. 2.8-2.9) through tariff increases, quality and service
capacity and trip reliability, as well as efforts focused on reduced operating
costs, are planned to continue.
4.9 The ridership of the CBTU is predominantly of very low income - about 58Z
in SP earn less than 3 minimum wages and about 78X earn less than 5 minimum
salaries (only the very desperate will travel under the appalling conditions
today). The most recent consistent data on household expenses and income (IBGE,



-29 -
Family Budget Survey, 1987/88) shows that basic expenses!' (except urban
transportation), for families declaring revenues equal or less than two minimum
wages (MW), exceed average family income. If urban transportation (UT) expenses
are added to basic expenses, almost all household income is used up, even for
those earning between 2 and 5 MWs (Annex 4B).
4.10   Given the scarcity of reliable aggregate data on household expenses
required to estimate the share of UT expenses incurred by a low income household
as a X of household income, it was necessary to perform a simulation exercise
based on current UT fares and MW, etc. (see Annex 4B). This simulation shows
that UT expenses (based on a home to work ride which includes the use of bus plus
rail), in 1991, account for at least 61% of total hosehold income. UT expenses
plus basic expenses as a share of household income, went up in comparison to
1987/88.   For household earning up to 2 MW, those figures for SP are 161%
(1987/88) and 211% (1991)4I. Bus fares' real growth in the period accounts for
most of that increase.
4.11 The same exercise was done to evaluate the impact on low-income families'
budget of the proposed rail rates after CBTU decentralization in SPMR (US$0.33).
By the time the project is completed (1996) and even assuming a sizeable minimum
wage increase (MW assumed at US$100 in 1991 constant dollars), the costs of urban
transportation for poor households in terms of the consumption of basic goods and
services is going to rise.   It is estimated that in 1995 UT costs (bus-rail
combined trips) will correspond to about 66% of household income in SP (61% in
1991) for households with incomes up to 2 MW. It is therefore clear that while
the program envisages a substantial fare increase (pegged to the urban bus fares
in each capital city) the average income level of CBTU's riders present severe
affordability constraints for full cost recovery, especially for rail-based
travel.
4.12 To make UT affordable to the poor it is necessary to strengthen and expand
the eligibility to the "vale-transporte" program to low income residents which
are not formally employed, to substantially promote integrated (bus-rail, subway-
rail) fares, which could be lower than the combined fare assumed in Annex 4B, and
to increase the overall level of service provided to the users. This will imply
lower travel times due to higher frequencies and operating speeds bringing down
therefore the overall generalized transport cost to the user thus alleviating the
burden that urban transportation imposes on poor households.
4.13 Unlike rail fares, bus fares do not contribute to road maintenance which
is the responsibility of local Government and is financed out of general
revenues. Therefore, even after a successful cost reduction program, rail based
operating deficits reflect (i) a small percentage for the financing of
maintenance costs for fixed infrastructure and (ii) a directly targeted subsidy
to help alleviate poverty. In order to maintain the future financial health of
the SP Entity after decentralization, and to ensure adequate and timely
maintenance and safety of the system, it will be necessary to ensure a reliable
and predictable source of financing to meet these "normalization" payments.
3/ Food, housing, clothing, health care and education.
4/ Figures higher than 100% are both due to understatement of monetary earnings and to the
relatively higher share of non-monetary earnings in those households.



_ 30 -
4.14 Impact of Decentralization on Local Finances. The financial situation of
both the states of SP and RJ has been uneven in recent years.   Successive
macroeconomic stabilization plans, high inflation rates, and changes in the
legislation concerning tax collection and indebtedness have led to a somciwhat
erratic behavior of both revenues and expenditures.   Until 1988, the underlying
trend was one of deteriorating financial performance and increasing recourse to
borrowing.   In 1989 a generalized improvement was registered, mostly as a
consequence of the implementation of the new constitution which has, inter-alia,
enlarged the tax basis and the revenue share of sub-national governments. In
1990, the situation deteriorated again, as local tax revenues were negatively
affected by the serious economic recession (Brazil's GDP fell 4.5Z in real
terms).
4.15 The evaluation of the capacity of the local governments to assume the
financial responsibilities of the decentralized sub-divisions was carried out
taking into account past and future financial performance and the projected needs
for government financing to cover the difference between working expenses and
passenger generated revenues (normalizatiowu costs). The financial situation of
the federative governments depends largely on the fiscal decentralization
included in the 1988 Constitution. While decentralization of expenditures is
still awaiting complementary legislation, the decentralization of revenues is
already underway and will be complete in 1993. There are no official estimates
of the net impact the reform will have on local (or central) governments.
Preliminary estimates indicate that in relation to 1987-88, states' revenue level
may increase as much as 10-15%; and municipalities revenue by 30-35%.0'
Expenditure responsibilities will increase as well, but the net effect is still
uncertain. For the purposes of this project, one has assumed conservatively that
any increase in local revenues would not be totally offset by corresponding
increase in expenditures, so as to avoid further built-up of arreare or
outstanding debt. In addition, one assumed that economic activity in 1992 would
recover and that tax revenues would recover to the level of 1989.
4.16 In the case of Sao Paulo (SP), both financial performance and the size of
the normalization payments suggest that the state can meet the needs of the new
Corporation. On the one hand, the fiscal performance of Sao Paulo in the last
five years has been reasonably good: the state has been able to generate a small
but constant current surplus with which it financed about one-third of its
investment expenditures.-   On the other hand, the size of the normalization
requirements is relatively small and the State of Sao Paulo has met on a timely
basis all contracted subsidies agreed with both FEPASA and the Sao Paulo Metro.
The annual amount the state would need to finance is estimated at $65 million
which compared with the $1900 million annually spent by the state in
transportation activities is relatively modest. That is, the additional cost of
decentralization would represent roughly 3% of the state budget allocated to
transport in the last five years. Taking into account the potential savings
obtained from other transport modes as the institutional capacity of the sector
is strengthened (i.e. with the creation of the state transport authority) and the
5/ For more details see Anwar Shah, The New Fiscal Federalism in Brazil, World Bank Discussion
paper, No, 124. 1991.
6/ The remaining was financed with borrowed revenues and that has led to an accumulation of debt
(declared or undeclared) and of debt service. In 1990, debt service represented 30% of the state
revenues.



- 31 -
possibility of additional sources of tariff revenues, once the tariff study is
complete, the amount under discussion is likely to be financed on a timely basis.
4.17 Review of Financing Hechanisms. In conclusion, it was agreed that efforts
should be focused on seeking a solution(s) that (a) would generate sufficient
resources to maintain a stable and predictable funding for urban transport
investments; (b) mechanisms be established to generate adequate operating cross-
subsidies from within transport related taxes, user charges, etc., to provide
adequate support for normalization (operating deficits) transters; and (c) CBTU
would contract with a credible institution (such as IPEA) to provide a structured
leadership to a Tariff and Financial Policy study, to conduct discussions at the
federal, state and local levels, and to help in drafting the appropriate
legislation to implement such policy reforms at the national level.
4.18 In the meantime, agreement was reached at negotiations so that (a) During
the project disbursement period, the GOB will meet the project-related cost of
capital investments plus debt service (interest and amortization) of the CBTU-SP;
(b) during the period prior to Operational Transfer , GOB will cover the differ-
ence between the working costs and operating revenues of each sub-division; (c)
and that after the Operational Transfer is effected the GOB operating subsidy
(shortfall between operating revenues and working expenses) to the SP Entity will
be discontinued.
V. ENVIRONM4ENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
5.1 Since the main objective of the proposed project is to increase the capacity
offered by the rail suburban system, it is expected that a substantial percentage
of the passengers now carried by bus will return to their original mode of
transportation, that is, rail. This is especially true for passengers who live
within walking distance from the stations, who switched to bus because, in the
last five years, the capacity and safety offered by the trains decreased
considerably. However, it is not so obvious for those passengers who are not
within walking distance. Nevertheless, theoretically it is estimated that by
project completion about a thousand (1,000) less buses/day will be required in
the streets of the Sao Paulo metropolitan area, because over 320,000 pass/day are
conservatively expected to switch back to rail. The main positive environmental
impacts expected stem from this reduction in bus services, given their present
negative impact on the air quality, noise levels, traffic congestion, and road
accidents. Other positive impacts as discussed below, include the effect of the
rehabilitation of the rail system on passenger safety at the stations, on 'the
land use around the right of way and the decrease of fatal accidents resulting
from lack of fencing of the right-of-way.
5.2 The impact on air quality is due to a reduction of emission by the buses
which will be removed from circulation, or which will have their route-km.
shortened because, they will be operating feeder services for the rail system
rather than duplicating their routes. The impact on air quality was estimated
at 6.3 million US$/year in S. Paulo. The impact on noise levels is also due to
the removal of buses, especially in Sao Paulo, where the older vehicles
predominantly owned by the public sector are noisy and when bunched together,
cause very high db levels, which hardly allow people to chat at normal voice
levels on the street. This impact was quantified at 1.3 million US$/year in S.



- 32 -
Paulo.   The impact on traffic congestion was also estimated at 8.4 million
US$/year in S. Paulo and is mainly due to the shorter waiting time for commuters
using their automobiles and buses and also due to the savings in fuel consumption
since the vehicles consume more when they are idle. The effect on road accidents
is based on statistics which suggest that, in the metropolitan region, the number
of bus accidents is a function of the number of buses on the road. It is
estimated that the savings due to lesser accidents are 1.7 million US$/year in
S. Paulo. In addition, the fencing of the right-of-way is expected to decrease
the number of fatal accidents due to people who cross the tracks. Even if the
benefits estimated were cut in half because the bus oporator. would, in .cGe
cases, continue to run the buses at lower load factors, the project would
contribute positively to the environment.   Details are given in Annex Sc.
Benefits which were not quantified are those related to the improved living
environment which will result from aafer and cleaner stations, crossovers from
the sidewalks to the stations, space for queuing up at the wickets, ramps for the
handicapped and, in some cases, modal integration with taxis, buses and private
automobiles. Other non-quantified benefits are those related to the structuring
effect of a revamped rail system which will attract housing in the surrounding
areas. Furthermore, real estate development on the air space above the stations
and on land owned by CBTU is also expected. Other non-quantified benefits relate
to the lesser stress which the road system and congestion will impart on the road
users and the better ambience expected in trains where, at present, people are
carried as cattle. Shorter trip times and faster home-to-work trips will also
have a positive effect on the rail users, welfare.
5.3 The proposed physical rehabilitati in of the system is not expected to have
negative impacts.  Most materials used will not affect the environment, the
contractors will be responsible for proper disposal of old materials, the
earthworks are mainly in CBTU's existing right-of-way and there is no
expropriation.   Wooden ties will only be procured from contractors who are
allowed by their national agencies to sell them and, wherever feasible, concrete
ties will be used.  The visual impact of the stations will be enhanced with
appropriate architectural designs which will blend with the environment and the
same will be done with the overhead catenary, wherever possible. In short, the
environmental impact of the project is expected to be positive. Assurances will
be sought that the project will be executed, and the system subsequently operated
in accordance with good environmental practices.
VI. PROJECT RISKS. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Risks
6.1 The main risks involved are the dynamics and consequent delays in the
dialogue between the Federal and State Governments, the political reluctance to
raising tariffs which will allow each sub-division to reach the targeted working
ratios, the possible delays in the procurement process, and the timely
availability of counterpart funds. Negotiations between the GOB and SP have
progressed very well and the same is true for the negotiations between the SP and
MSP  for modal coordination.   All parties have  agreed  on the thrust  of
decentralization and the risks are more associated with its phasing and term of
its transfer. The tariff issue will remain a major risk although CBTU has been
increasing tariffs, because Governments may be tempted to freeze tariffs for long
periods of time, thereby eroding revenues.   The contract plan between the



- 33 -
operating entity and the Government will contain provisions to protect the CBTU-
SP systems from these imposed freezes. The delays in the procurement process
will be minimized by requiring the borrower to produce the major tender documents
by Board Presentation. The timely availability of counterpart funds will be
eddressed by seeking assurances that they are already included in the Federal
Government FY92 provisions for CBTU and will be included for every year
thereafter. The proposed Mid-term Review (para. 3.22) will also monitor this
condition.
Agreements Reached
6.2   The following assurances have been obtained:
A. Project Management:
a)     that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be structured and
adequately staffed and otherwise supported in the implementation of
its responsibility under the project (para. 3.9);
b)     that  Procurement will  be  carried  out  in  accordance with  Bank
guidelines, including (i) the use of standard bidding documents for
the procurement of goods and works, under LCB and ICB procedures; (ii)
use of Bank's guidelines for the selection of consultants; and (iii)
the procurement limits (para. 3.17);
c)     that Special Accounts in BACEN and in a Commercial Bank will be opened
and maintained (para. 3.20);
d)     that Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) (i) will
be audited according to procedures, and by independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, and (ii) audits will be submitted within four
months of year-end (para. 3.21);
e)     that (i) within ninety days of loan signing a Project Management
Information System (PMIS) satisfactory to the Bank be installed; (ii)
preagreed  institutional,   physical,   operational  and  financial
performance targets to be included in quarterly and annual reports to
the Bank; and (iii) an independent project monitoring consultant,
reporting to the President of CBTU, be appointed to maintain a
continuing performance audit of the project, and recommend corrective
actions where required (para. 3.10-3.11);
f)     that the project will be executed,  and the system subsequently
operated in accordance with good environmental practices ( set forth
in a Side Letter to the Loan Agreement) (para. 5.3);
B. Decentralitation and Operational Efficiency:
g)     that the Operational Transfer will be completed by the target date of
December 31, 1993, or when 60Z of the loan funds have been disbursed,
whichever date is earlier, in accordance with a phased program
previously agreed with the Bank (para. 4.3);



- 34 -
h)     that CBTU shall enter into an agreement (the Contract) satisfactory
to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  to  effect  the  Operational
Transfer.(para. 4.3 (c)).
i)     that not later than December 31, 1992, the Executive Branch of the
Borrower shall submit   to the Borrower's Congress a bill of law, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, authorizing the Borrower
to take all action required to effect the Ownership Transfer (para.
4.3 (b)).
j)     that not later than June 30,  1993,  SP establish a juridically
independent public corporation (the SP Entity) with sufficient powers
and authority to accept the Operational and Ownership Transfers and
to own and operate all assets included therein. That SP not later than
December 15   each year after the Operational Transfer and until
December 15, 1995, execute agreements with the SP Entity, satisfactory
to the Bank , (the Contract Plans) including specific  operating,
financial and performance targets for the following fiscal year and
the financial contributions and other actions required from the State
to enable the SP Entity to attain such targets. (para. 4.2(b));
k)     that CBTU up to December 31, 1993, will take all necessary actions to:
(i) carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in tke Schedule to the CBTU Project Agreement; and
(ii) achieve agreed basic physical, operational and financial targets.
(para. 3.22(a)-(c));
1)     that CBTU not later than September 30, 1993, CBTU shlall prepare in
consultation with the Borrower and State and put into effect a
detailed plan of actioni (including datee and intermediate targets),
satisfactory to the Bank, to reach a working ratio for CBTU's
operations in the State (and after the Operational Transfer for the
SP Entity) not higher than 1 by December 31, 1995. Such plan shall
include a specific program of tariff increases and a set of
operational measures required for that purpose. (para. 3.22).
m)     that operational targets which minimize the need for unnecessary
tariff increases, will be adopted and will automaticall:v trigger an
internal management review of operating income and expenditures, and
operating performance targets to maintain efficiency (para. 3.22);
C. Financial Policy and Modal Integration2
n)     that the GOB during the project disbursement period, will meet the
project-related cost of capital investments plus debt service
(interest and amortization) of the CBTU-SP and the Loan (para.
4.18(a));



- 35 -
o)     that during the period up to December 31, 1993, the GOB will cover the
difference between the working costs and operating revenues of the
CBTU-SP (para. 4.18(b));
p)     that the CBTU, SP (and where applicable the MSP) undertake to ensure
completion of selected studies, including a tariff and financial
policy study (all under terms of reference approved by the Bank)
before the Mid-Term Project Review, so that an Action Plan on the
ageeed recommendations can be prepared (para. 4.7(b));
qt     that not later than 12 months from the date of signing of the Loan
Agreement, Sr will present a plan (financial, technical and
institutional) and a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
transfer and integration, and consolidation of the FEPASA metropolitan
train system with the CBTU-SP (para. 4.7(b)); and
D. Mid-Term Review:
r)     that a Mid-term Project Review will take place (June 30, 1993) to
review preagreed institutional, operational and financial performance
indicators, and compliance with covenants (including tariffs,
subsidies, progress on studies, etc) of the Loan and Project
Agreements,   to  assess  project  performance  and  progress  on
decentralization and as necessary agree on remedial actions.
Particular importance will be given, during the mid-term review, to
the agreed working ratios and the status of the studies and action
plans required to ensure a smooth Operational Transfer. (para. 3.23).
6.3  As required at appraisal, a draft Supplementary Agreement to the Convenio
Basico satisfactory to the Bank and completion of Final engineering of 75%
of works, which covers the totality of the first year program and 50% of
the second year were submitted to the Bank during Negotiations.
6.4       The following are Conditions for Loan Effectiveness:
a)     The execution of a Supplementary Agreement to the Convenio Basico,
incorporating selected provisions of the Loan and Project Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.2(a));
b)     The establishment of the PIU and its adequate staffing by CBTU, with
a team of specialists satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.9).
c)     The duly registration of the Loan Agreement by the Central Bank.
Recommendation:
6.5 With the above Agreements and Conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$126 million equivalent, to be paid over a period
of 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate and fees.



- 36 -
Detailed Cost and Disburaement Tables



WAML
MEXOPUTAN 7ANS               CENTLZATONPT
CMWdC0dTa=b
fJ9S milmon)
Sao Paulo           unrt     la    l1o       184  1r  1m3   TOTAL li t             6     3  1tA94 1i l 1 1                        14  1U6  1589
ls-Fetilunwsv t _ _ t= _ _ _ 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a   7a  R4||O|    F|Bg 711  1llO|   ° ol  1s 6J  S im
murWrWay                                         6f9   1                                                   M.   0.0.,1       7.7  |2o.1  10.8   .o0   0.0 .             19°2   13.6     5Em
lf.CuS 6                m            r     2j  I   ttl  o --0181    a   ' .1X    A    2.7 aoli Q 1   0.oll   Qo.0   Q019 1.6             oo 1.2  0.0   OD           2.5     oc     oLs'g
.Orsnlr,a                           3   U8        H   wtc X  1                             e 2   0  13  I01=1 0L.   0.   0   -0.0,  0.0 1    0.3  1.0   0.3  0.0   0.0.. 0  0.8    02            15   3     12
.enoim                  u           0      3       0   0    0          0       gi0.0    0.0 0.1 00.0    0.0 v00.0.0              0.0     0.0.0    0.00.0D           0.0      .  0.        0.0    s6 3-      17
ien     e    es 0    0       0   0    0          0            0.0    0.000            0.0    0.00.0        0.0l   0.00.0    0.0.00            0.0    0.0ll   0.0O00         577OD   ool 0.0 O.C  _  12
e.Fg         "     f      t l2            0       0717  0    0          7       192.       I  0. 0  0.0 124 7w7       0.0 2.2           4.5 0.0  L00I 1.              7.8  _ 1               1 O70E          17        -..
I- u                      Lol    l   i       71     I       oil _  7  1 0 0  211         1 2 701   0 2  0 .0. . °O   l   0.0 0 0     0a.   0 . 0 0 .0   0 .0. 0 2  oA           0. Q c120   5 05        7      1 2
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13 .3 M s1!1 1it41 S!oll  0l° °||   7299 i-.   g                          |°|  °|°|   D  OD| e.et o.o|   .l Q1t °o5    12 x  oag 
. Tm d c   W .          1cM          0      0        0 I  0  I 0       0            0 10   0 .0  0 .0  0 .0   0 .0   7  0 .0      O nI  0 .0  0 41. 0  0K   .         0.0    0.      nlA .        5    3    1 27
Ml     23    119~~~     iCo0    0        24     1      020     121,.00.          .     043           1 20.0 Mo0    2.7                  1.0    IACL    02 OO   .W    5235    12
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4nt.7iht                                           12.   7.7 -250.5l  CLO°  !M2 5i      031°l°iol¢l2.   1a  +a.79Dpa844 040    0             °EL  a4      6 4.5
{   .Tndcsn|l hin   ll    °||  ||    °6{ °||   li    C   F      | °°1  °°|| eol  OD||  >n15;0n|l °-°|| 7°l| °°71            O 0.0      ,;JD22 °l  |               °        F
i   M-i t          ||en         || 37EP  29MO    39        0 |      105f     =    3    SI 03 1 2 4 111  o  OD||   QD||   414j   IS|                                                                     471 .o| n| n| S    0.  .4Gl -.OM
|   oKI. .F;hlb7ime  j|               0 ll  0t|    °1    0t    |       t41 0X 0      03011  .0 71LDI 0S11  a0.0   XXI 0.311          o   O.e o °011  O jai oOt :t.:!l I ie 1O OD         .i OD    (LO    a35 11 7
R|   F TR.F8fs     l tonal            oI|  501   2x0   °l   °1    tGD|. 020, I               . °0l 51  D    ODl  °°10  ^N°1| 0.l    'J|l  ODl °°1   °°%l               o! m-         OA I 0.0 I1.                        .
Tumu                       1 471        1l    o| |  o|   Q| |       i  --31    02            a o 0| Qo0 '. 0        | Os    |2 |   a|  OD|o.o|| OD|, ..S         OA -02         GO                 0    1
|  9 3  M o lu r ot b e8                             o1 °11  °I        724                                                                                                                            °1 ° 0 .10 O D  O D  0 .0  IOD| OA)|ooE O D  O D   r0211 -aol  oll C .,  ,I O D  aolo.o O D  O£t3 '°I
t  I T   il   11   71      11      41  li   a4::      .s1    W1    {i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    12  1.0 .    OD:  21 410  11  1  l 1 2   0.0   0.0 1,          1         0 .::'i.ll    I2
ttO7RBt                                                                                                         cS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.WKt I
Track tefw~~~~~~~~~=  0  0  0 -  0  0.0   0.0                                                                  0.0    0.0                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Tegck f"-  23    lig    102   0    0  2"    10=   . 02    1 2   IJD. O.O.  02  1.3   1.2  0.0   001 t-P-7      1.0    1.4    oz             5as    12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
Traek coreAftclk7n  I   wn  0  0  0   0    0  0  0.0   cio  0.0  0.0   OM    *.o  oo  0.0   0.0  OM    tw ~.Imo  0.0    GM    OD            535              -



WOTNVCThAI8APPCRTOOCENThAT,0WPR0JEOT
0111 cwtver  0156
Ul~~R  1~~   1lS~~   14  1~~~S  TOTAL     1~~~ 1~~ 1~a4  1s    Irn                   TOWl   1856  1n  i                 mdl.
I     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    
20.0  23.7  24    1.       3     2  23.4    44.7   28141         4.   A63       6.4   M00       1.6O5
*8b6ffI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60n ~~~~~~~~~~2.11   5,7 0.3.0                              O.(  812  2.4        8     O6A0 0.0    0fl0             a .0    1.6     aSIA
kt"  7M  W71!      a    of     GM2.1                4 5 .70   0.0    0.0        22.4       68    040 00    0.0  9.4           6.0   1.*    1.5        1 1 0 8
-FIed                                  50~~~~~~~~~~~~W  12   0  2e0    23402.03    030 030.0    0.0   1.0  0.4        .0.    CA   0.1   0.0   1.2        0.4      05     0.12 -1    10 53    12
*TvSIn  84ff..!,  84 ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~  9    0   1~~~~  17978   1~~~.1   1.1   1102D   0.0   I .51.          1,3. 1 0.2 k       0D   4.13,       1.4     22      05 41 1     10270    12
.Ej~~fvl8fl!   s~~~cr7       217 e          10   0    0         48  14       20       .1 00 00                7. .6   1.8  00                  .0.            .4      10      1-37.         00        1
-ATS                                            dko    32   32   0.5   0.0  I"I 4.5          a7    3.6  0.~~~~~~~6  O.Ci m0      70       .       .    z
E=Am*m                        2.5   1z   lz   00    0.0 I  19.31                        0.3 1 0.01        1.3 I    5A   0.9    I      '743~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
- ais                    10   70    17~~~~~~~~~~~I-
FWd  kM  icis.  761 III   0  270    ISM   02    0.1  Oi. 0.0   0.0 t OA. 02  0.1   0.1  CLO   0.0             0.3      0.1    0.1   OZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



IIMtTPOOLTA TRASP0^7 DECEN7RLAtON PROJE CT
D&W*d CCet T.W
(holi cedkhotml") P 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SS cJ__0                                  I __                    TO b-UCtn                                   Ms ^ . _  *                          _
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                     T-14T                                                                                        I       11      it    -T- 1       1 :     11-71 -Lolloo.o iz 1 I _  W i-2:ti..___
.ACAron 1l                                               Is   - m I          .  OA                  199   '00           t    -o        °         §       °      it"            li[ooeils20el0 0iolu*t2i I,1<o   . .o1....,__s
aEl-  -  wee tap                                                                                      1 §o.clellsol l  4.0  !..I  o       o        l         7     0.ol2  0.'si 0t .3                        2.:     .    3 5 t - 1.2
.ccs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |                     |     0  u                   I       |        0-l           0.      0.0             °aj                   0|.16b0i 0.0    0.|| osV|o  °0°§t *   0.2 l   *7'l  01 °° °0  °lo    20         it I
Crwuf                .        Eu            a-t  III  u             0     0          I     400           11  00   0.    C1°1°Il sl40.0    0.tl  0.2        0.0§    0-4   0o0    0tz loAll         0,:.9 ,   0.,      0.1                  so     it
Poe!..         I!           11       !!       1!        !!      ti    !100 1!0 !!                      0   0l5|l23l      2     . .\ri42f       2 I             ti                   1     2 7.2     0.4    02.0:2    10    7 0   1
L EbU "u  o                                          61     3      1i 7-l                       8 $att 0. 1 iTti    o.¢l   0.l4                2l 2.l      .1 X          oOj    .Xl;t               .1       ,  1. 1        .i 0  
}-Motntii~~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11  01 ({  11                               1 4625V             t-: .   0-51,@ 1  Wo    0-2        0-s-?t:70.21t*1s7       0.     00 1627Ol .Xt.0    0.0      0,0   tO.2    4"    = 1  3          i
|   E5tU-             ll     u       5       1      °1  11  0       } 0    11 0      7   *Imosol5i   "$1   °1 1            2 .0 |.  0.0|  0 |11 7, O |   21.7|   0.   16.0|    -1 *   ".O.       at.0       0.2       a 10 . 4       it
I w _ 1~~~~~~~.0      M1 "Vei          I   L ° 11        0  _  °     L O  , °  !10   :   l111  ° °ll  ° °11  0.1 ,   *.11  0°ll  °°l        :d71              o-0    l       ;° O.*           0.       0 .1  H : ft            10     0
5P                       IT    _     Xt                                                               201 ,,  231  122.    121 11--        SC 419l@ 1lsl2o i 2 3.2i   20.6 2 1 = . 1  7. 111  7-     .       14=            5       =2 :2
e   .    .    1l    1i   1l   11   111100  i1 0 1l : Lt.j14 ot 1}.8 1t 2" s11 . 2|m1*t-.?1:t rtX 1  D s . s .1  1   t _i._O      _ji2  3 .  l .     a 3.7 c 0.  0.0  *.I  7  _       .E . . 1.
0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    6,0   o.0  .0    0.111  0.0    0.01 "L'O.'b I  0.0  0.0  0.0    wt,   lo    75  12. 3
Z_  ___2_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~o0
O  0  0  0  0  0  0.0    0 a   O.O.   0.0    0.0    010  0     A   0.0   0.0    0.01         b~o    0.0       0.0 I   0.0            I 0    75            -
Emu.  a  5  a  0    12    16333$   2.1    *.I-  3.1    0.0    0.0                                 3.7  -0.0    0.01   CA           7.1      1.2 1   1.1    S-.  lo    76         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iX
U*d-Wi~                               158   lo.111  9.0   12.3    64   lo~*  170          21.7   226  15.2    7.0   -**M          43.       10.9    1i.
Evue  A  la  10.   6  3  ~~37   iplefoo  15.8  11111A  19.0   12.3    5.4   70.0  17.4   21.7   22.4  15.2    7.0   $4.0          93.0     10.0    10.1   lwo    lo    76         72lv,



BRAZIL
METROPOUTAN TRAINISPORTOECENTRALIZA.'riciN PROJECT
(IJSS mmn)
anct. oontinowida)
SAOPALPLO                                   cAutntptv             UnR            B*MCoM                           Totid In    Cenftooncim          Bnw         O' Tom Co""'
I    I               cost
IM4 190        tow  Dim   IM2  iGM   IN4 IM5 IIOM  TOTAL  1802 II ION  11094 TIGMII ISWI IMAL l4=hwtGAl(e=Lt="_' twm    1;,x
'(OWN
A. lnstftu-bflal                   421  415. 93- II  10  950            4338. 4289   9M   107  103. 9M.            4931 .1154   133  133 :4110Y-l'     0      $018 1  1352 t,.    I
iL Treining,                       38   37                   W                                                                  Vs    74   low        0                  If We
I-Mamgem"trocyclincs    ioernor  10   10    2    2    1   25   10   101   99   143  is   14   246.  114   114   20    20.  14.                      0               34 1:,
-2.Martagement trainlng              7    7    I    I    .1  is   la   67   as   10  10   io   164    Vs    77   12   113  -13                gi       0       ISO      23  !-n:101
-3.StTiervisars dr4eiopmem           2    2    o    o    0    5    10   21   21    5    5    3    55    24    24    6             6                    0        Be
-4,Enalneers deve"men!              19  19    3    3    a   47   10  191   lee    31   30 1 30   470   217   217  -'7   38   39    "7                  0       482 - es  .:,647
b. pfq impmwentawn unit      MCI  20   29    5    5    r.  71   10                   47         46
296                 __n4    "129   33Q.  M       67. W        I .      0      mi    100
c CBTuslumft                rtion 148  148   28    0    0  322         USI  1456   278    0    0   321   Ism   1682   33iI   0    0   3m              ol    3249    443
I.Manpower DevtRational.   pL-monl  29   291  6    o    0   64   10   2DI 1280    GD   0    a    637   33D   331   71    01  o    M  i               ol     644      as
2.Cost Acet. anci tarft  lp-Monl 25   2511 121  0    0   62   10 - 250  248  120    0    0   C.15 M            2"   143    o       o    709 1      ol      624.    051
-3.Manag!Mento?                      c    5))  oI  o    0   1 1    10   Ss   55    0    0    0    ilo    63    63    0            o     o    126       GI      III      1511  12611
4.POV. Sec. Paf'Jcipatlon         12   1211 -0    0    GI, 25   10  125   193    a    0    Oil  248-  141   t42i   0           0     0   M3          GI     249      3411  'M31I
MV. 13      be-mor  is   lat I  aI  0    0 1wI  lo   I 79   176i
S.Non-operMing   [an                                                                      2    Oll  3561  2M    204    0       0     0    407        0 1    3ii      49    407
-6.CSTU--PIFEPASA tMmWn toe-mw   -13  1211  01  0j  0 1251  lo_ I  .122.   a    0    01 2481  142.  141.   0                      01  o    253         oll    249       3411  203
7-CBTL-SP/Metm, intearation  be-mot  25   2511  oil  o    o 150!  lo  250. 245.   0    a    01 4951  254.  283.   0            01  o   Bsr          oil    490      Gel 1  W7
8.CBTU Marlmwnp Stucly    IMMOI  21   2011 loll  0    o IBill  lo  20r.  203   Be    0    o    SW[  233   234   117            0    0                0       51
cl. PAodW Inteamtlort Studin    pe-mo!.  103- -    0    0          '10  1041  102S  620    0    0   25W   liab  1184. $to             o   '20ft      :0   :-2825.  I,368
Pe-MO         41. 40   C)   0  123   10  416   410  400    0    0   1226   472 1 *74   475    0             o   1421        0      1251 1   III   11421'
P-CUTC Managm.troute mUon. pa-mc       37    0    0    0   74   10  375   36D    0    0    0    744   40    428    0           0     0    851        0      749    102   -1361
4.Susreg.fra mmoorkSP    Pe-MO         12    0    0    0   25   10  125   123    0    0    0  249   142   14P    0            0     0   2w          0      250.    34    255i
3.Termirtal lntbffv. s-wtor  ps-mo    12  12. 12    0    0   371  10  124   723  120    0    0.  360   141   142. 143          0     01  426         0-M        - -ti.
vfnandng Mothants"     kpo-Mor -lo  19I o    a    0   3811  10  194  lith    t)   0    1)   W4.  919   :w    10   1)    0    440
lae-mol  76   781  of  a    40 '151   10   nal I 751 I  0                         a%    SW      lo    o      0   '17M       o'.: -IM
I.Lea-41FInjiletirt actkms  foe-mot  at   51    of  o    0  102   lo   $13ti        0    o I  a   icis   5m    584    o        o     o   lisal I     a      1=6 1   140   II
I 2.Contract Plcls C13TUISTATE  IC-Llmof  25   25    ol  o    0   50     25-0  240.         0    0    495.  253.  284    0        0    0   5"          0      499      so
o
.2. iftmatkyn !W-001*    I u       3    2 .  I   *    0    6    80   126;  124   '42    O.  Jo  Adio   143F  443.               0    0    4m                 gee      40    33w.
I s    to   63 __.g    21   0    0    140   '42    71   25    a          0   -Mes                        mll  :189
2                                                                            iit
S.                         Wmw   di   so   lo   lo          123    8   ?SS   251   49   4i   12   iiis-           1290   ft                                       7
TOTALNVESyMMTS(A+S)                                      la. im                                     40402
t-3
A)
f
CD
"3



-41-
Table T1
METROPLTN    ASOT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
SAO PAULO
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ million)
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds  of  the Loan,  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of  the Loan  to each
Category  and the percentage of expenditures  for  items  to be  financed  in each
Category:
______________________________  *yKin~la  qidvalent)..\:~ .. . . .ount--o:.bfl&.  :
(1) Works:
a. civil works                          38,000,000                            40X
and systems
b. rolling stock                        39,000,000                            562
(2) Goods                                   21,000,000              100X of foreign expenditures
and 1002 of local
expenditures (ex-factory
......._....._._._._-_,___________-costs)
(3) Consultant's services                   10,000,000
and training:
a. training abroad                                              100Z of foreign expenditures
b. training in Brazil                                           502 of local expenditures
c. consultants                                                  50% of local expenditures for
services of cons ltants
residing within the territory
of the Guarantor and 100Z of
foreign expenditures for
services of other consultants
(4) Unallocated                             18,000,000             _
TOTAL                         126,000,000
Source:  Appraisal Mission
October 1991
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                US$million
Bank FY                      92              93              94            95        96
=~~~~~ .    -   -  _   =                                             -  u_
Annual                      20.0    I/       35.0             40    _    20.0        11
Cumulative                  20.0             55.0             95   .      115.0     126
A/ Incl-ading initial deposits into the Special Accounts totalling US$11.0 million.



- 42 -
Table T6
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
SAO PAULO
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
~~~~~Db1~' et  ; Avotnt                             .      - .~ 1........vt4+;
June 30, 1992                20.0 I/            20.0                16
L9 9 3 o   ::_              _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _--_-._:_ _A_---_ _-_ _ _--;_ _:-: _
December 31, 1992            10.0               30.0                24
June 30, 1993                25.0               55.0                44
December 31, 1993            22.0               77.0                61
June 30, 1994                18.0               95.0                75
1995                    _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __                    _  _  _  _   T_ ___r_._._-__
December 31, 1994            13.0              108.0                85
June 30, 1995                 7.               115.0                91
;  .<                              ................... ......'.'
December 31, 1995             6.0              121.0                96
June 30, 1996                 5.0              126.0               100
Assumptions
Loan Effectiveness: May 30, 1992
Loan Closing Date : June 30, 1996
1/ Including an initial deposit of US$11 million into the Special Account
Sources Mission estimates



-43 -                               CHART 1.
4~~~~~~4
-z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
a
n
d
2~~~~~~~~~~~
03
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
t                                         Q         
fI         . IL
=LU 
C>V .      C                                          aJ
pu-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
I                               S. ~~~~~~~a
5-m-                                       -     --                      _
-- -t l--                                         S-  -           _
a                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~
I-~~~~~~~~~~.
*-IO55.1                            U~IL  aa-
3  ~z  X s>_ 
- ~     c       o       .                          .J
-O                                 4
IL                                 W
Lii  uaS~~~..S~&.-~~@S -            a
_~~w-                   -
~~~~I                              U
X  ~      ~ S                          -
" Ul lill~.
11:               ,N



BRAZIL-METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
STATE                            SAO PAULO                                                             RIO DE JANEIRO                              STATE
aMv          ...NFRA...                ............ a v
,  -    i                         I............................                                                       .....
EXECUTIVE REP ESENTING                            CBTU          i                                     EXECUTIVE REPRESENTING                      u
A=i''' 1 ,m, ...   ...........E           L       .............
ETEXcECUI           I         I   M                                              .
|  -  -|   I                   | DIRE"OW  I                       r    !   - -~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   El
GENERA    CO-ORDINATIO                                                 l BA                           GENEI AL  CO-ORDINATION  I                 4
~~~~..                   ..............              .............. ......,..,,, ...E 
___                                                                                                                                                 i,  .
_ - LI  IA O N    T!
| Xt .....T...........   ,,,|SAPTI||OORP t........................ .| TI 
[OECENTUL2ZU2[g                  1{   S&Ohuto   |                |RIONEJGEIRO |l                     {lECLIUTII
~~~~~~£ORIH, ,IW'I                                         _                      f I    '   F   ,  * 
ENGIE|STERN  
B' HE .............                                           .II



FLOW OF FUNDS                                  CT 3
F S L  UNION
BIRD   X4CTTNj
I  YL n-- _
CBTU
LEMAL ARRANGEMENTS
PRJC   AGREEMENT
J S  RDE DNRE TPR,    C UNION
AGREENENTS
.~~R   MR         Sp  .  
PPRJECT AOREEEN BT
IMO IRE
X,  X,~~~~~~~~I.UL9



46    STU/SP                    CHART 4
LOAD DIAGRAM - MORNING PEAK HOUR
JUNDIAi                6:00 - 7:00
LINHA SANTOS-JUNOIA(
FRANCO DA
ROCHA
CAiERAS        \
PIOUERI   19 '9200 
ILUZ    (/'/,o            ENGQ    \  LINHA LESTE-VARIANTE
b19.4W  30iSEETo                            '
\ tMtOOCA  /    -iv,c TMINDADEO      \.
01    ,&  ~ENGQ S.                        \
jPthAGA '\UAL">EOR
R j \ \ tASILDE -,gN~~~~~GQ
/ /   XX\  eweX                         AtA~~~~~~~~NUEL FEIO
TAM NOUATE(              \f
I------                ALMON VIANA
,  t   S              //               >^ SUZA~~~~~~~~NO
SANTO ANDRE       LINHA LESTE-TRONCO
ESTUDANTES
ts     MAuAs                L EGE N D
RAIL LINE
-&  LOAD WITHOUT PROJECT
s RIO GRANDE                   LOAD WITH PROJECT (1996)
D OA SERRA
SCALE
PASSENGERS/NOUR/DIRECTION
PARANAPIACASA
20.000
[10.000
O 



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 8
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR IN BRAZIL
1.     This Annex outlines the Bank's past support for the Brazilian Urban
Transport Sector and the experience gained.   The lessons learned can be
summarized ass (a) the coordination between the three levels of government in
urban transport cannot be assumed, and must be dealt with very carefully at the
project preparation level, and reviewed in detail during the mid-term project
review; (b) policy for the sector must be strengthened to minimize distortions
resulting from inefficient physical and financial coordination between modes and
to promote multimodal integration; (c) the tariff levels should allow for
significant cost recovery of working costs and must be complemented by financing
mechanisms which cover the shortfall; (d) demand levels forecast by the borrowers
should be carefully scrutinized; and (e) more attention must be given to
maintenance management on infrastructure.
A. FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1563-BR, US$88 MILLION, M&Y 1978)
2.    Project Objectives:  (a) to finance investments that would improve urban
transport services, with emphasis on the provision of public transport,
especially to the poor; (b) to promote and support the development and
implementation of appropriate urban transport policies; and (c) to strengthen
municipal, state, and federal capacity to prepare, appraise, and execute sound
urban transport projects.
3.     Project Cont,nt:   The project was broad in scope, and included: (a)
traffic engineering and management measures in central urban areas and at
critical points, the introduction of exclusive bus lanes and segregated busways,
widening of critical links, or construction of missing links in the road network,
reorganization or construction of bus terminals, paving of bus routes in low-
income areas, and training, technical a6sistance and institution strengthening
to improve the delivery of transport services. Project beneficiaries included
the five MRs (Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Recife and Salvador). Some
nine different agencies were involved in implementation and overall coordination
was the responsibility of EBTU.
4.     Implementation Experlince: The project experienced various delays due to:
(a) lack of institutional support to the cities from EBTU, and Government changes
in 1979 which led to otaff changes in the various implementing agencies; (b) the
preparation of final engineering designs and tendering; (c) land acquisition; (d)
availability of counterpart funds; (e) local level coordination, and (f) quality
control of the works. The closing date for the project was extended twice,
resulting in an implementation period from three to five years and nine months.
This suggests that the appraisal schedule estimate was overly optimistic but
performance was still substantially shorter than both worldwide and LAC region
profiles which were above eight years. The only specific covenant, other than
the standard conditions, was not met. The five municipalities were required to
take the necessary steps to revise the valuation for tax purposes of properties



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 8
whose values have been affected by the project.  In the early stages of the
project, EBTU staff were less forceful than expected in solving local problems
and bringing difficulties to the attention of decision-makers.   It must be
recognized, however, that EBTU was in its formative stages. This was a first
project for them and there was a learning process involved. As part of this
process, and in order to achieve institutional improvement, EBTU prepared several
operational manuals to assist in the appraisal and supervision processes. These
manuals and the experience gained by EBTU (and the Bank) provided the basis for
the development of procedures applied in thie Third Urban Transport Project
(1981), which did much to improve the quality and efficiincy of EBTU's
operations.
5.     Results:  The project was timely and helped to orientate the Government's
growing concern about urban transport problems.   The support given to the
institutional development of EBTU, following its creation in 1976, improved
federal level urban transport planning. The project was successful in providing
improved urban transport services, particularly public transport to serve the
poor. The OED concludes that "the project was successful in implementing some
of the most imaginative and radical buis priority measures carried out anywhere
in the world. These experiences have relevance for Bank-financed urban transport
projects worldwide". The bus priority measures included the development of the
bus corridor concept.   Bus corridors were designed to accommodate passenger
demand levels which were difficult to satisfy by conventional bus services.
Schemes involved segregated busways introduced into the existing road system,
facilities for passengers and pedestrians, bus system reorganization (usually
trunk/feeder), traffic management measures and integrated bus fare systems. The
project was also generally successful in providing institutional oupport at the
MR level where there has been, a significant improvement in the capacity of the
agencies to tackle urban transport iseues; the success was most particularly
noted in those Mrs where future urban transport investments existed, not
necessarily financed by the Bank, which provided the scope for continued
institutional support. Finally, the studies and institutional strengthening,
financed under the project, coupled with the successful implementation of the
physical components, have led to policy changes affecting urban transport in
Brazil as whlole and, in particular, lead to increased emphasis on public bus
transport and greater attention to cost-effectivo policies to traffic management.
6.     Sustainability:   Institutional, technical and financial resources are
required to sustain the types of investments included in the First Urban
Transport Project.   Although there were some institutional and technical
weaknesses, the project clearly provided institutional oupport to strengthen EBTU
and the local agencies. In the case of EBTU, this support was continued In the
Third  Urban  Transport  Project.    The  major  constraint  with  respect  to
sustainability hlas been the lack of provision for cost recovery, or other funds
to cover maintenanice of the physical schemes Implemented under the project. The
failure to make provision for maintenance of the Investments is seen in
practically all the city projects.
7.    HEowever, the project had a substantial institutional impact overall. It
assisted EBTU at a critical and formative otago of its development, by providing
strong techntiical and financial support, which enabled it to play a catalytic role
in transport improvements in urban areas. EBTU subsequently took increaningly
more responoibility in tho approicll anid supervioion of Bnnk-finanecd urban
transport projects, a procesa whtich began withl the five MRs included In the Firot



- 49 -
ANNER I
Page 3 of 8
Urban Transport Project, and which culminated with full responsibility for
appraisal and supervision of eleven out of the fourteen urban centers included
in the Third Urban Traneport Project.
8.     The institutional support resulting from the technical assi&tance and
studies, coupled with the experience gained generally from the successful
itplementation of the physical components included in the First Urban Transport
Project, have led to urban transport policy changes which affect Brazil as a
whole; these include more emphasis on traffic management, increased emphasis on
the provision of public bus transport, and the creation of coordinating bodies
at the local level to implement urban transport policy.
B. SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT (PORTO ALEGRE) PROJECT (LOAN 1839-BR, US$S59
MILLION, JUNE 1980)
9.    Project Objectives:  (a) to establish a new company to own, manage, and
operate a suburban rail mass transit system on a commercial basis without
operating subsidies; (b) to achieve a significantly more efficient modal
distribution of traffic and use of all transport facilities in the metropolitan
region's North-South corridor; and (c) to promote the development of selecaed
employment growth poles In the North-South corridor near urban railway stations.
10.    Project. Content:  The project consisted of the construction of a surface
suburban rail mass transit system usiug electric unit trains between the central
business area In Porto Alegre and the municipality of Sapucaia, 26.7 km to the
North; the establishment of a new company to own, manage and operate this
services and a complementary program of policies and studies.
I1.    Implementation Experiences Despite some serious problems of procurement,
passenger services started in March 1985, one year after the origineally planned
sterting date. The railway company, TRENSURB, had successfully been constituted
and during the course of project implementation had changed its nature from a
construction organization to a railway operating company. The closing date was
extended once by one year to December 31, 1986.
12.    Reaultas   The Project Completion Report sums up well the principal
lessonst
"(A) It Is not sufficient that the railway service has been successfully
implemented.   The success of the project depends upon the service
attracting sufficient passengers to make the investments economically
viable and the railway profitable. This will be highly contingent upon
the resumption of economic growth In Porto Alcgro and In the evolution of
tho fares for the users of alternative transport modes. In addition, the
attractiveness of the system would be enhanced by the Implementation of
the recoemendations of the studioe carried out under the project (bus
integration, car parking restrictions, etc.);
(b)     Ohe major lesson to be learned from thie project is that, In
cases In which there is a need for substantial policy decisions and the
implementation of measures Involving different Government agencies
subject  to  conflicting  pressures,   their  commitment  should  be
realletically assessed duritng project preparation. The steps to eneare



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8
that these policies are implemented on time should be carefully
identified at the same time. In the particular case of the Second Urban
Transport Project, a more detailed action program including specific
policy implementation targets and appropriate measures for its
enforcement should have been agreed upon during appraisal; and
(c)     Regarding the original objective of TRENSURB covering its working
costs, the appraisal was unrealistic to explect that this would take place
during the initial operation period.   Only after the system   hae
demonstrated its reliability to the usero, will the application of a
revenue maximizing policy be feasible. In the meantime, TRENSURB should
roview its staff needs in order to streamline costs and carry out a
tariff study to determine the optimal user charges.   The Bank should
closely follow-up the implementation of these tasks in the context of its
ongoing and future involvement in the sector and continue to impress upon
the Government the benefits to be gained from a financially healthy
public enterprise as well as the existencet of tools much more effective
than transport subsidies to achieve income distribution objectives."
C.  THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1965-BR, US$90 MILLION, MARCH 1981)
13.    Project Objectives:  (a) to improve the quality and efficiency of EBTU's
operations through changes in its structure, procedures, and staff allocation;
(b) to improve transport infrastructure and operations in 14 medium-sized cities
and conurbations (AGLURB); and (c) to pave bus routes in low-income areas in
medium-sized cities, state capitals, and metropolitan regions (PROPAV).
14.    Project Content:  The project consists of three subprojects:   (a) the
institutional subproject includes EBTU's reorganization, training, technical
assistance and studies; (b) the AGLURB subproject consists of the establishment
and operation of an urban transport management unit in each of the 14 cities and
various components in low-cost improvements to existing urban transport
infrastructure with et-phasis on public transport operations and improvements of
planning and operation of urban transport infrastructure and services at the
local level; and (c) the PROPAV subproject includes the paving of about 850 km
of bus routes in low-income areas.
15.    ImplementstionExperience: Project implementation delays were experienced
as a result of numerous political changes, limited counterpart funds, the
transfer of EBTU to the MDU from MT and, soon thereafter, the Sarney Government's
Ecotomic Package, which delayed the signing of the 1986 Convenios by about six
montls. The project was amended twice, which included for the addition of four
cities to the AGLURB subproject and of 350 km of bus routes in low-income areas
to the PROPAV subproject, and resulted also in an extension in the implementation
period from four years and three months to five years and nine monthe. EBTU was
In compliance with .1l loan covenants.
16.    Resultst  The AGLURB subproject has done much to create a reallitic and
effective transport planning environment in Brazilian medium-sized conurbations.
The design of the physical componento drew heavily on the successful experience
from the First Urban Transport Project. Emphasis of the project waO placed on
cost-effective, traffic management based schemes in which assistance to public
transport (buses) has been the primary objective tn the majority of components.



-- 51 -
Page 5 of 8
The institutional development of the AGLURB areas was achieved through the
establishment  of  management  units  specifically  to  coordinate  project
implementation. Transport companies were formed to coordinate transport planning
and operation. Retention of the management units would depend on decisions by
individual cities but selected personnel would be transferred from the management
units to the transport companies.   At the time of project completion, the
implementation delays arising from the political, financial, and organizational
factors meant that comprehensive ex post evaluations were not yet available. As
with the First Urban Transport Project, there is a risk that the institutional
gains may not be sustained unless a flow of funds is made available to AGLURB
cities to continue purposeful transport planning.
17.    The PROPAV program was innovative and was a significant step in EBTU's
development.   PROPAV was essentially a subsectoral component and EBTU was
responsible for all aspects of the program. The program utilized local materials
and labor-intensive construction methods to the maximum practical extent and
thus, the costs were initially overestimated. This permitted a greatcr than
targeted program to be undertaken and to date all 850km of paving have been
implemented. The PROPAV program is regarded as a highly succe6sful program. To
an extent, the success of the program is demonstrated by the fact that similar
paving programs have been undertaken in other countries in the region.
18.    The institutional strengthening comprised two main aspectst (a) EBTU
reorganization;  and (b) training and studies.   The reorgani2ation of EBTU
proposed under the Third Project was completed in 1984.   In general, the
reorganization was judged to have increased EBTU's effectiveness. However, with
the changing demands arising from federal government policy on decentralization
and from the needs of the Fourth Urban Transport Project, additional changes were
assessed as necessary.
19.    The training program comprised a conventional approach (of courses,
seminars, etc.) to transport planners and an imaginative training program for bus
operators and personnel. The latter program has been successful in reducing bus
operating costs, accidents, and improving public acceptability for bus services.
20.   The general delays in project implementation affected the commencement of
the studies proposed for inclusion in the project. Furthermore, EBTU did not
initially attach high priority to the studies. Itowever, in the last year of the
project, the study program was revised and additionally provided inputs to the
preparation of the Fourth Urban Transport project. In particular, tho Pinancial
Study enabled EBTU to form a policy on on-lending, the vehicle operating coat
study (carried out by CEIPOT) wao intended to provide data for incorporation in
tho EBTU 04 and the SITURB program will provide an initial data base for
evaluating bus operating costs.
D.  FOURTH URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 2822-BR, US$200 MILLION, MAY 5, 1987)
21.    Project Objectives:  (a) improve the operating efficiency of the urban
transport systems in the nine flRs through savings in transport costs and tima;
(b) seek to pass savingo from improvements in the urban transport systems on to
users, many of whom are amonS the urban poor, in the form of lower tariffs and/or
improved levelo of service; (c) conserve energy and encourage substitution of
diesel fuel by promotion of domestic energy sources, wherever economically



- 52 -
Page 6 of 8
justified; td) strengthen the role of financial considerations in urban transport
policy; (e) strengthen the major institutions, in particular for coordinated
investment planning for the sector as a whole; and (f) increase the
responsiveness of transport planning to local needs.
22.    Project Content:  The proposed project would have financed components
selected from EBTU's rolling urban transport investment plan (1986-1990) in
Brazil's nine MRs (Belo Horizonte, Belem, Curitiba, Fortaleza, Porto Alegre,
Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador and Sao Paulo). Components would include a
Corridor Program, comprising investments, including design and supervision, to
improve public transportation (mainly bus systems, but also some trolley bus and
ferry systems) and to correct weaknesses in road networks. The Corridor Program
would   include   infrastructure   (including  extensive  rehabilitation   and
reconstruction),  traffic management measures and supporting organizational
improvements; and a system-wide Maintenance Program, including civil vorks,
equipment, the establishment of maintenance management systems, and institutional
strengthening.   The project would also finance a sector-wide Institutional
Program which would involve EBTU, NRs, 1DU, and CBTU.  This component would
include technical assistance and training for improved planning and operational
practices6 studies and organizational measures to strengthen and imnprove sector
coordination, financial planning and urban transport policy development and pilot
technological development programs.
23.    Results:   Thore was a considerable delay in declaring the project
effective.   Institutional problems at the level of the federal government
resulted in a very poor environment for the project's implementation. The Fourth
Urban Transport Project wao cancoled whlen tho EBTU was abolished by the
Government in 1989.
E.  CONCLUSIOUS AID LESSONS TO BE LEARNED
24.   Despito the considerable achlievetnents of the First Urban Transport
Project and the anticipated succoss of tho Third Urban Trassoport Project, the
projects have lend to thc conclusion that a number of specific issues In the
urban transport oector require attention and should be addrenoed within the
context of overall sector reform: The principal concluoions can be summarized
as follows:  (a) the coordination between tho three levels of government in
urban transport cannot be aosumed, and must be dealt with very carefully at
the project preparation levol, and reviewed in detail during the mid-term
project review; (b) policy for the sector must be strengthlened to minimize
distortions resulting from inefficient physical and financial coordination
between modes and to promote multimodal Integration; (c) tlhe tariff levels
should allow for significant cost recovery of working costs and must be
complemented by financing mechanisms which cover the shortfall; (d) demand
levels forecast by the borrowers shlould be carefully scrutinized; and (e) more
attention must be given to maintenance management on infrastructure.
25.   Coat Recoveryt Direct cost recovery Is difficult In the urban
transport sector, othter thtan for self-finatcing  infreotructuro and paseongcr
vehicles and ve6sels. Thterefore, transportation infrastructure investmento
(urban and interurban) conventionally recover costs Indirectly through
transport-related taxes.  In tho Pirot Urban Tranisport Project, it Was
envisaged that partial coat recovery would tate place by the revaluation of
properties whose values wtre affected by the project.  No such revision in



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
valuation, however, has apparently taken place in any of the five 1RS, partly
because of the difficulties in assessing an increase in property values
through the low-cost improvement schemes provided under the project, when
alternative policies or conditions encourage the provision of essential
municipal infrastructure, at little or no cost to the beneficiaries. In
retrospect, the project should have addressed also the indirect cost recovery
mechanisms.
26.    Maintenance:  Lack of maintenance is clearly a problem in each of the
five MRs included in the First Project and is beginning .o be apparent in the
components implemented in the early stages of the Third Urban Transport
Project. Problems apply to a wide range of components. Maintenance covenants
were included in the agreements for both projects but this has proved an
ineffective mechanism for ensuring adequate maintenance levels. While there
is increasing awareness of the problem and while improved maintenance
stantdards cre an objective of the Federal Government, there is a need to
develop an institutional and financial framework and capability to provide the
necessary funding and to carry out the appropriate maintenance. In hindsight,
this problem probably reflects the limitation of addressing narrow sectoral
issues, in isolation of a broader policy framework for the urban sector as a
whole.
27.   Bits Regulation:  There has been a trend in some cities toward the
creation of integrated bus systems, controlled and regulated by a central,
public authority. The central authority plans the system and contracts with
operators to provide services according to standard cost schedules. "Excess
revenue" is taken from operators on profitable routes to cross subsidize those
operating unprofitable routes. The feeder/trunk concept may make this
increased regulation easier to achieve. There are several areas of concern.
Firstp there are signs that the determ'nation by the central authority of all
operating parameters is tending to lead to standardized solutions which may
stifle innovation and reduce passenger choice. Secondly, the contribution of
the private sector is limited. Thirdly, the needs of the passenger do not
always receive adequate attention; for example, feeder/trunk systems force
pasosengers to change buses and in cases where full integration has not been
achiovod, passengers can be worse off since they have to pay twice and are
further inconvenienced by the change. A thorough review of the regulatory
framework is required urgently, to ensure improved accessibility, balanced
with equity and efficiency considerations, while encouraging greater role for
private sector operators of public transport.
28.    Urban Hotrorail Systemat  The construction of the Rio de Janeiro and
S&o Paulo metros used about 242 of total urban transport investments made by
EBTU during the 1976-1986 period (no Bank financing). Although since 1984 the
financing of the metros Is the responsibility of the State Governments, the
Federal Administrations, through BNDES, have continued to e2tpand these
systems without a thorough economic and financial examination of the
investment's viability - and hence have subutantially increased their
dependence on subsidies.
29.    Urban rail transit oyotemo in Belo lIorizonte, Porto Alegre, Recife, and
Fortaleza, which are also being expanded, apparently without overall and
detailed study, raise two key issues: firot, the implications of forced
initegration of buses with the rail syotems (here the experience from Porto



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 8
Alegre suggests that this is a typical example of unsuccessfully increasing
bus regulation in that passengers are highly resistant to making transfers,
even when the fare is lower than a non-transfer alternative), and secondly,
with the prospect of continuing operating deficits for the urban railways,
changes in the financial arrangements for public transportation are likely to
be required. Some years ago, the audit report for the First Urban Transport
Project concurred with the Bank Urban Strategy Paper of June 14, 1985 (Report
No. 55867a-BR) regarding the need to "move toward more rigorous economic
evaluation of subway and suburban rail systems while improving coordination of
investment decisions to ensure macro-economic improvements such as energy
savings and increased urban efficiency". The experience of preparing the
proposed Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project, considerably expands
on this, and provides the model for reviewing instant decisions against a
broader framework of Institutional, Technical, Economic, Financial and
Environmental framework, focussed on long term sustainability of the
investments.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page I of 8
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TRAFFIC DEMAND AND MODAL INTEGRATION
1.    The objective of this Annex is to describe the transport planning
analysis undertaken to forecast the CBTU ridership in S. Paulo during the
project horizon. Since one of the most common pitfalls in the rehabilitation
of passenger rail systems is to overestimate traffic demand, a considerable
amount of time was dedicated to examine the justifications for the proposed
traffic forecasts. Furthermore, despite claims that the traffic levels
proposed are only based on recapturing ridership levels which were already
achieved in the past and that most of the passengers to be recaptured live
within walking distance from the stations, the CBTU planning team was asked to
demonstrate how those forecasts were made and the effects on the potential
ridership of different relative tariffs between bus and rail.  The analysis
shows that there is good justification for the proposed traffic forecast.
Following is a summary of the methodology used in the forecasts and the
highlights of the analysis.
S. PAULO
2.    The forecasts for CBTU-SP were undertaken by corridor, using a 1987 O-D
data base and a recent version of the UTPS model. The model compared
generalized costs for the competing modes, namely bus, metro and train. Basic
population, income, ridership and other relevant data for traffic forecasting
are presented in Tables 1 to 5. The details of the model owned by the S.
Paulo Metro and the complete output exists at CBTU and is available for
consultation if need be. Some of the basic data used is presented in Table 6.
The model used is periodically run by the S. Paulo Metro to analyze the impact
of changes in level of service, namely of the tariff, travel time and waiting
tinme on modal split.
3.    The model suggests that even at a tariff of USS.38 the CBTU ridership in
1995 will be slightly higher than 1,260,000 pas8./day. The simulations
suggest also that the traffic demand is basically inelastic up to that tariff.
The modal split in 1995 is given in Table 8. This suggests that the tariff
can be increased three times from the present level and, if the reliability
and headway targets planned after the rehabilitation are met, the CBTU-SP
system will have a traffic demand which is 34% higher than the 1991 level.
4.    Of the 1995 forecast ridership, 70% will be passengers who walk to the
stations and 30% will reach the station by bus, compared to the present split
of 50/50.



- 56 -
Page 2 of 8
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 1:            POPULATION GROWTH IN BRAZIL
(OOO'S of Inhabitants)
S. Paulo            4.751       5.5        8.153      4.5      12.609    3.1        17.141      2.0      20.843
Metropotitan
Region
Brazil             70.070       2.9       93.139      2.5     119.003     2.7    155.563        2.2     194.143
i/ CBTU Estimate
Source: IGGE, April 1991
Table 2:    CBTU RIDERSHIP INCOME PROFILE
......                 .nge .
l t~~~~~~~~~~~o  2ly;.II Range in tS :
;.|. C  3i   40.78    79'117  :18 2          173'390      -577
4--S144?Z
a. NO/SE                    4.8        3.0            18.0       15.8       41.2         7.7      9.5
b. Leste Tronco              6.8       3.5            18.4       19.0       39.9         6.3 615
c. Leste Varianto            4.0         .5           21.4       21.8       37.1         6.1      5.2
Otbobt    5.1        3.4            18.8       17.6       40.1        7.0      7.9
July 1991



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
BRAZIL
METRO-POLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table  3:              HOUSEHOLD  INCOME/MONTH
BASIC  CONSUMER BASKET AND CBTU TARIFFS  (1991)
0 (zero)(0                   4.3           3.4              41.4
o -39 (up to 1/2 MS)         1.4           3.3              40.2              106              71
40 - 78 c1/2 to 1 NS)        5.3           3.1              37.8              64               21
79 - 156 (1 to 2 NS)         10.7          3.5              42.7              36               13
157 - 234 (2 to 3 MS)        36.3          3.7             45.1               23                8
235 - 390 (3 to 5 NB)        19.9          3.8              46.3              15                5
Above 390 t5 Ns)             22.1          3.6              43.9              11               4
(1) NS: Mfnimwm Salary (APR 91; USS78)
(2) The basic cost of the basket was CrS12.495.86 (APR/91) - US$48.5 (household with 2 aduLts and two
children)
(3) IncludIng people who receive only benefits.
(4) CBTU monthly tariff. Estimated as USSO.1Zx22 days x 2 trips x 0.80 x # of persons/household
Source: ISGE, DIEESE
July 1991



ANNEX 2
Table 4:     POPULATION GROWTH IN MUNICIPALITIES SERVED BY CBTU
SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN REGION
1 9 8 0  |                               199O J
_l  Density I I     %    I I _          I [   Density  |_|_%    I lAverage Annu
Municipalities  Total# of Inhab. II(inhab.jha.) I  of Total  otal# of Inhab.   (inhab..ha.       I Population
__________________  -_____________        ___-_.__                                 .  G rowth   (% )
Caieiras                       25.152        Z.4         0.2            37.357         3.5        0.2           4.0
Campo Limpo Paulists           21,891        2.5         0.2            38,922         4.5        0.3           5.9
Ferraz de Vasconcelos          55,055       25.0         0.5            82,893        37.7        0.6          4.2
Francisco Morato               28.537        9.8         0.3            50,941        17.6        0.3           6.0
Franco da Rocha                50.801        3.3         0.5           72.468          4.7        0.5           3.6   ul
Itaquaquecetuba                73,064        7.0         0.7           104,633        10.1        0.7           3.7
Jundiai                       258,809        6.0         2.3           350,882         8.1        2.4           3.1
Maua                          205,740       26.4         1.9          312,486         40.1        2.2           4.3
Mogi da Cruzes                197,946        2.6         1.8          258,663          3.4        1.8           2.7
Poa              -             52.783       37.7         0.5           75,312         53.8        0.5           3.6
Ribeirao Pires                 56.532        5.1         0.5 _          82,815         7.5        0.6           3.9
Rio Grande da Serra            20.093        7.2         0.2           28,068         10.0        0.2           3.4
Santo Andre                   553,072       34.8         5.0          690,830         43.4        4.8           2.2
Sao Caetano do Sul   _163,082                2.2         t,            189,524         2.6        1.3           1.5
Sao Paulo                   8.493.226       56.9        77.2        11,128,848        74.5       76.9           2.7
Sao Vicente                   193,008       14.7         1.7          271.528         20.7        1.9           3.5
Santos                        416.677        5.7        3.8           486.810          6.7        3.4          1.6
Suzano                        101,056        5.5        0.9            148,053         8.0_       1.0           3.9
Varzea Paulista                33,818E      1t._         05 54,256                    18.1        0.4           4.8
Total              11,000,342                  100.0        14,465,289            _      100.0              3Q D
m X*
/1 CBTU estimate                                                                                      QUAD22A.WK 
Source: IBGE                                                                                                         ,l,
co



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
Table 56    MODAL SPLIT OF MOTORIZED TRANSPORT IN THE METROPOLITAN REGIONS
(% OF TOTAL MOTORIZED TRIPS)
Auto                                  Auto
Metropolitan Reglon         Bus    + Taxi    Train    Metro      Bus       + Taxi   Train    Metro
Balem                              57.0     43.0                        08 0.      32.0
Fortaleza                          57.0     41.0       2.0              69 0 _    30.0 _    1.0
Recite                             68.0     30.0       2.0         .     66.0      30.0      4.0
Salvador                           |8.0     30.0       2.0  ___          69.5  _   30.0      0.5 _ _
Solo Horizonte                     68.0     30.0       2.0              69.41      30.0      0.8
______                    ~~~~~~~~2/
Curitiba                           68.0_   30.0        2.0         -      ND        NO _    ND
Porto Alegre                   _   68.01    30.0_    2.0 _         -    67.8       30.0 _    2.2
Rlo de Janoiro                     80       24.0       7.4       0.6    04.3       3          .5      1.1
lao Paulo                                   39.0       34
1/ Estimate
2/ Not at disposal
Sources: OEIPOT. CBTU and METRO/SP
FORECAST OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT TRIPS BY CORRIDOR
(% OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT TRIPS)
1991                        1990
CORRIDORS                              _=_
___________ _ _  BUS    TREM  METRO    BUS  _ TREM    IMETRO
RIO DE JANEIRO              _      - _       -   _   _       |                              -
O.Podro 1 - Deodoro                 84 _     1  = I            55         45  
D.Pedro II - Japcrl                 s o0     20   _  -           55       45-    ---
D.Pedro Il - 6anta Cruz             88        12                72 _      28              -
D.Pedro ii - E.Roxo                 9G _      3       ...        9 1    20 _    ..
Loopoldina                          94   _  13        ...        77 _    23 _     . 
SAO PAULO
Santos Jundial   V)             _ 6  1 _      28        21 _    48        31 ()  21 -   -
Last* Tronco and Variants     _    43         10_  t    47       15 '8 _            09
(I) including FEPASA



- 60 -
ANEX 2
Page 6 of 8
Table 6:   COMPARISON BETWEEN TRAVEL-TIME AND FARE
FROM SELECTED STATIONS TO DOWNTOWN
(SAO PAULO, 1991)
................ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .'.
Ribeirao Pires                51             0.12            100            0.85
Cufeiras                      39             0.12            65             0.59
Santo Andre                   31             0.12            75             0.59
utinga                        20             0.12            62             0.46
Maus                          37             0.12            60             0.74
Sao Caetano do Sut            15             0.12            60             0.46
m   ~~~~~..
N091                          73             0.12            90             1.07
Tomaz Vosconceloas            45             0.12            90             0.65
Franco Rocha                  45             0.12            95             0.65
1/ Travel time In minutes
2/ Fares fn USS equi,alent
3/ Not available for each line separately
4/ To locate origin satations cee CBTU-SP tines diagram
Source: CBTU-SP
ENTU-SP
Table 7t   MODAL SPLIT FOR A TYPICAL CROSS SECTION
OF THE PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
NETWORK - 1995 FORECAST
'>__~~~__________                                       ..iA_.  .....
SANTOS   JUNDIAI             Northwest Bound           Train CBTU             25
Train FEPASA          35
_____________              Bus                   40
Southwest Bound           Train                  66
_ound          Bus                    34
LESTE                                                  Bus                    15
Train                 16
Metro                 69
Table 7A:   ACCESS AND EGRESS FORM CBTU-SP STATIONS
BY MODE (1991)
.  .  t91.._-,. OC~t  .:                                                   ..
1;~~~ .                AcZ0   .                         ;X::;  .           Md.                A~~.
_  ~~~~~~~%.-.7.  ...._ 3E=
WalkIng                     42.2                52.7                  Walking                       70
Bus                         42.0                38.6                   Integrated                   30
___3y                     6.2                 5.8                   (Bus, Metro)
Traii                        5.2                1.5            -
Car                          1.9                0.8
Other                        2.5                0.6
Source: CBTU
Iuly 1991



TABLE 8    PASSENGER TRAFFIC PER WORK DOV'
_ _OPAULO                                                                                                                                    FOR_  rSt___ _ _ . __  ___   _   _   r
SAO PAULO   - . ~~:.           1984        1S85       1989       1887        198        1989       1990       161'W                     E* 
SantosJunda I 1000ol)                      409         450        478        482  _      484_       497                                    9724                                    724
sTroncoBfndV  Imato (Iowa)           _      330         383        37t        3S7 j       381        370        403        403         45 _       483        509         538        SW
SUMOTAt.~ IOA                                                                                                                  j     __ ___   " 
ANNUAL AVERAGE CIOCO's x 30o        1   221700    243900  - 2553Q0         260700     253500     260100      28200C    282000 _     04800 _   312000      359100 _   378000     378000
ANNUALfASS.KMxt1000                   |4143790     4560930  | 478M5330    4S75_      47404S0    498387      527S40C    5273400    58E9780 _  6S34400 _   15170 _  706880       70600
li   l   I   tt   l   _  =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S   _   _                                  _     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
oQI
0lL>
j>1
01tISt



- 62 -
PNE. 2
Page 8 of 8
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATAON PROJECT
Table 9:  OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE TARGETS
1r= 5= I*                     - ,, -         -   SW
I Present
:* 0's)Iday      1991       1992       1993         1994         1995
Pass. Transported tOOQ  s)/daY        940       1.015      1,040        1.197    1.260         1,260
Headway (minutes                 MHin. 10   Min. 10   Min. 10        Min. 8       Min. 8       HMn. 8
______ ___________ _ m_ Max. 12   Max. 12   Max. 12    max. 10      max. 10      Max. 10
Availability of EMUs Cs)"             79        80          84           87           87            87
Utilization of EMUs  X)2'             98        98          98           98           98            98
Staff (0 of e__le_4) _457                                  4,457        4 7 _                     4
1/ Ratio between available and existing fleet.
2/ Ratio between fleet in operation plus reserves and fleet avaltable.
Source: CoTU
July 1991



- 63 -
ANNEx 3A
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
THE POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PLAN
This Annex describea the studies and training to be undertaken as a
basis for the policy and institutional development action plan. As mentioned
in the main text the studies will be divided in three categories: (a) studiee
which are only CBTU related; (b) studiee to enhance modal integration; and c)
studies which examine the decentralization and financing mechanisms aspects.
The training component should contribute to the skill upgrading of staff at
all levels through recycling, training in-house and abroad.
A list of most of the proposed studies and training is presented below.
Draft Terms of Referenco for each study were agreed at appraisal and will be
ready by negotiations.
A. CBTU Related Studies
..   Preparatton and implementation of a manpower development and
organization plan with staff rationalizatl.on.  This study will review the
oraranization of each of the new syetems by functional area and as a whole. It
will provide job descriptions for each of the main pooto and a strategy to
rationalize thc otaff. It will review tho aalary scale and benofito and,
baned on equivalont pooitions In the private sector, propooe a new salary
scale and a chronogram for its implementation. It wll a so define the
training requiremento and recycling to be undertaken under the training
component. Finally, it will propose a new admiooions policy based on the
needo of the new companies.
2.    Preparation of a cost accounting and tariff, management Information
systemos and financial management study. At thio otago, it lo clear that both
systems need a good coating group which io capable of determinilng the long run
variable costs of theo oytem and for that purpoce oeparate thiO fixed cost0
from tho variablo costo.  In addition, the accounting and finance directorate
should bb equipped with the requireol management information oystems to allow a
timely analyoso of tho coota. Finally, tho Planning Department ohould be
prepared to cotimate and oporate on a regular baoso tho tariff ochodulo,
integrated tariffs, mnultitrip tariffs, etc., using the informaation from tho
cost oystemo, information from the comnpotitive modes and oocio-economic
conotraints.
3.    P'roparation of an action plon (and Ito tnplementation) to improve the
management of stocks.  Both oystemo should have a computerlod Inventory
management whichl will allow internal control and prevent lack of apares due to
poor programming.  This ACtiOnl plan ohould be itoplemented end it is expected
thgat it will contribute to bottor the rolling otock availability.
4.    Proparatioen of proposals to subcontract malintenance and other operations
to the private sector. This study sthould examine the operational activities
whlichl could bc eaubcontractvd to the private sector at competitive prices (at
least two competing sources) and indicato the staff reductions which can bo
achieved and potential operating oavingo if tltooo activitieo are
subcontracted.
5.    Action And revenuo plani through promotion of station space, advertiling
and real ustate development oni CBTU's real estate and actiotn plan for their



- 64 -
ANNEX 3A
Page 2 of 5
implementation. This plan should indicate very clearly what are the non-
operating revenues which each of the CBTU new systems can earn through
promotion of station space, advertising and real estate development. The
study should provide a detailed estimate of income and costs and suggest how
the proposed plan shculd be implemented, i.e., in-house or through outside
parties.
6.    Marketing CBTU's Image.  CBTU's image is very poor in S. Paulo.  After
the system is decentralized, management must undertake a marketing campaign to
improve 'BTU's image and attract new ridership. This study will discuss
proposals to improve CBTU's image, the marlketing plan to implement them and
the incentives to attract new ridership.
7.    Study and plan of action to integrate CBTU-SP and FEPASA's Metropolitan
train. CBTU's integration with the FEPASA Metropolitan train Is an objective
already set by the Government of S. Paulo. This study will propose
alternatives for the physical, organizational, and finan.cial merger of the two
systems. It will compare those alternatives with a do-nothing situation from
the standpoint of the users, the Government and from a firm's standpoint. It
will make recommendations to the GSP on how to proceed with the merger.
S.    Study and plan of action to integrate CBTU-SP and the S. Paulo Metro.
Thi study will examine the options available to further integrate the CBTU
and S. Paulo Mctro's operations. This integration will ease the load in some
sections of the Mietro and make recommendations on how to integrate the two
oyotemo. It will also provide a detailed technical, economic and financial
evaluation of the proposed options.
B. pn_l ntegrtion Studies
9.    A atuady to update thlo Transport portion of the Master Plan for SP witl
empihasis otn routo rationalization, mnodal and tariff integration. The SPMR
Master Plan should be updated to emphlasizo the integration betwoon CHTC,
FEPASA, CBTU, and the Metro.  If need be, an updated voroion of the 1987 0 - D
*e"'ld also be obtained. 8naic guidelineo for the developmenlt of new oystemo
and integration terminale muot be outlined.
10.   CMITC tnanagement and votIto rationalization study.  The SP municipality
requested an objective analysis of the options available for its municipal buo
cormpany (CMTC) and their itnpact on efficiency and financial tmnagement.  Wlat
shlould be the. role of CMTC, if any.  In addition, an examination of the route
structure of CMTC and tte methtods used for their allocation to privato
operatorn, no well ao thior profitability under different scenarios will be
examined. An eotinato of the oporating and capital suboidies under each
ocenario and how to finance and minimize them will be provided.
11.   Preparation of it study to oxamine the regtulatory framework for
conlcessionk of bus routes.  This study will examine the regulatory framewor';
ror conceosion of buo routeo in tha SPM and in tthe SPIuR and will propose
chanigeo which will embrace deregulation and competition. It will preparo tho
draft of a decree to be discussed by the respective Governmento.
12.   Financing mechanicms study with reconmendations on how to covor
oporating deficits and capital itvesttmevnt, action planl and cthronograin for
tmxplementation.  Thiso  tudy will identify the financing mochaonitsm  available
and propoced to cover the oporating subsidies and capittal invesatment
requiroments of CSTU-SP.  NTh Federal, Stnte, and  Aunicipality contributiono
shuould ba clearly identified.  The study should make conerete recomnondations



- 65 -
AMNEX 3A
Page 3 of 5
and prepare a draft of Decrees to be discussed by the State legislature to
provide the funds required. The study should also discuss how these funds
should be allocated and the role of the Agency for Local Coordination in
assigning these subsidies.
D. Decentralization Studies
13.   Preparation and implementation of a plan to handover the subdivisions,
including the legal, financial and institutional arrangements. This study
will produce a detailed action plan for the handover of the CBTU subdivisions
to the States. In the action plan, all legal, financial and institutional
arrangements to be undertaken at each step will be identified. Preparatory
work, such as inventory of assets of each subdivision, will be done at this
stage.
14.   Preparation of contract plans betweenm CBTU and subdivisions and
subdivisions and the State. This study ts intended to prepare a detailed
contract plan document with basic performence and financial targets,
obligations of each of the parties, etc. fot CBTU-SP.
S.   anagement Information Svstems
15.   This component is intended to provide each of the new CBTU systems with
the very basic eoftware and hardware required to perform the basic accounting,
financial management and planning functions.
F. T§ID..!1
16.   Training will take placa at all levels of the organization as proposed
in the recommendations of the Manpower Develcpment studies.  The training may
consist of ini-house, on-the-job training or of visits or courses abroad in
very specific areas.
Irmplementation Progran for the Policy and Institutional Development
Action Plan
1. Decentralization Action Plan of the CBTU-SP System:
(I) In carrtini out the decentralization of the System CBTU and the
State s al s
(i)       Not later than March 30, 1993 complete a study and an
action plan for the handover of the CBTU-SP Syotem to the
State.  In the action plan, all legal, financial and
institutional arrangements to be undertaken as well as
the inventory of assets of CBTU-SP, will be included
(CBTU,STATE);
(ii)      Not lnter than March 30, 1993 complete a study which will
determino the long run variable costs of the CBTU-SP
System  using the moot appropriate methods available, will
propose the creation of a data base for more accurate
costing and will recommend and justify a tariff system
which is cost-based and take into account modal
integration and affordability issues (CBTU,STATE);



- 66 -
ANNJLX 3A
Page 4 of 5
(ii)      Not later than June 30, 1993 complete a study and an
action plan for the setting up of a cost accounting
system and management information systems for the CBTU-SP
System (STATE,CBTU).
(iv)      Not later than June 30, 1993 complete a study on the
financing mechanisms required to cover operating deficits
and capital investment and propose an action plan and
chronogram for their implementation in the CBTU-SP
System. The Federal State, and Municipality
contributions should be clearly identified (CBTU,STATE).
(v)       Not later than June 30, 1993 complete the preparation of
contract plans between CBTU-SP or its successors and the
State. This study is intended to prepare a detailed
contract plan document with basic performance and
financial targets and obligations of each of the
parties.(STATE).
2. Management Action Plan of the CBTU-SP System.
(b) In carrying out a management action plan to improvo the performance
of the system CBTU and the State shall:
(4)       Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare and implement a
manpower development and organization plan to streamline
tho management and operations otaff in CBTU-SP, to
propose concise job descriptions and to etaff them
accordingly; (STATE,CBTU).
(ii)      Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare and implement an
action plan to improve the managemont of otocks for CBTU-
SP which will include a computerized inventory management
to improve Internal control and provent lack of spares
due to poor programming (STATE,CBTU).
(iII)     Not later than June 30, 1993 preparo and implemont an
action plan to subcontract maintenance and other
operations to the private sector. This study should
examine the operational activities which could be
subcontracted to the private sector at competitive prices
(at least two competing sourceo) and indicate the staff
reductions which can bo achieved and potential operating
savings if those activities are subcontracted
(STATE,CBTU).
(iv)      Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare and implement an
action and revenue plan through promotion of station
spaco advertising and real estate development on CBTU-
SP. This plan should Indicate very clearly what are the
non-operating revenues which CBTU-SP can earn through
promotion of station opnce, advertising And real estate
development. The study should provide a detailed
estimate of income and costs and suggeot how the proposed
plan should be implemonted, i.o., in-house or through
outside parties (STATE).



- 67
ANNEX 3A
Page 5 of 5
(v)       Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare an action plan to
market CBTU-SP image. After the system is decentralized,
management must undertake a marketing campaign to improve
CBTU-SP System's image and attract new ridership. This
study will discuss proposals to improve the System's
image, the marketing plan to implement them and the
incentives to attract new ridership (STATE).
3. Modal Integration Action Plan of the CBTU-SP system.
(a) In carrying out the modal integration component of the project the
CBTU and the State shall:
(i)       Not later than June 30, 1993 complete a study and plan of
action to integrate CBTU-SP and the FEPASA's Metropolitan
train. CBTU's integration with the FEPASA Metropolitan
train is an objective already set by the State. This
study will propose alternatives for the physical,
organizational, and financial merger of the two systems.
It will make recomnmendations to the State on how to
proceed with the merger (STATE,CBTU).
(ii)      Not later than June 30, 1993 complete a study and plan of
action to integrate the CBTU-SP System and the Sao Paulo
Metro. This study will examine the options available to
further integrate the System and Sao Paulo Metro's
operations. It will also provide a detailed technical,
economic and financial evaluation of the proposed options
(STATE,CBTU).
(iii)     Not later than December 30, 1993 complete a study to
update a proposed master plan for integration of
transport services in the metropolitan region of Sao
Paulo (the Master Plan) with emphasis on route
rationalization, modal and tariff integration. The
Mester Plan will be updated to emphasize the integration
between CMTC, FEPASA, CBTU, and the Metro. If need be, an
updated version of the 1987 origin-destination traffic
survey will also be obtained. Basic guidelines for the
development of new systems and integration terminals must
be outlined. A management and route rationalization study
of the Companhia Municipal de Transportes Colectivos
(CMTC) will be undertaken with support from the Sao Paulo
Municipality. The regulatory framework for concession of
bus routes in the SPMR will be examined (STATE,MSP)
4. Training Action Plan of the CBTU-SP system.
(a) In carrying out the training action plan of the project the CBTU
and the State slhall:
(i) tNot later than March 30, 1993 complete a training action plan
at all levels of the CBTU-SP organization taking into account
the recommendations of the manpower development and
orgar.ization study. (para. 2(b)(i) above)



- 68 -
ANNEX 35
PAGE 1 of 7
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRNSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
PERMANENT WAY REHABILITATION WORKS
1.     General.  The Sao Paulo system (CBTU-SP) is composed by three
corridors: Santos-Jundiai, Leste main and Leete bypass, with about 402 km of
main line track (Map IBRD 23134). The system is electrified and passenger
services are provided with electric multiple units. The rail network mainline
is broad gauge (1.60m), and has an adequate alignment, about 2% of total track
length is in curves with less than 300m radius (Table 1), permitting maximutm
speeds up to 80km/h. Passenger traffic lines are laid mostly with 57 kg/m raLl
in both systems, with only one section of 53 krm laid with 68 kg/m rail in the
Leste/main line in CBTU-SP (Table 2). Sleepers are impregnated timber (about
86% of total number placed in mainline track), but concrete sleepers have been
used on main line relaying for sorne years (mono-block and bi-block)(tables 3A
and 3B). Rail fastenings are rigid in some sections and elastic in others.
Ballast is crushed stone of reasonable quality, but not adequate in quantity
and in general, polluted (Table 4). CBTU's main problem related to track
infra/superetructure is deferred maintenance, the track condition has been
gradually deteriorating during the last years as a consequence of budgetary
restrictions. Track infrastructure is in poor to fair condition, in particular
the drainage systems are in serious dierepair, imposing an increasing number
of speed restrictions, thus affecting normal train operationB and passenger
safety; rehabilitation and track upgrading are crucial in the system to
provide safety, transport reliability and to cope with expected increasing
traffic.
2.     Infrastructure Rehabilitation Works. Based upon the results of a track
infrastructure condition survey performed in 1990 for CBTUoe networlc in both
systems, an evaluation module has been developed and investment priorities
defined. Preliminary engineering designs have been completed, and bidding
procedures for related civil works agreed upon and scheduled, to meet the
five-year targets of the project (Annex 3P). These works would comprise
improvements of drainage systems, consisting of construction of drain channelo
(13 line-kim), and culverts (43 m); rehabilitation of small bridges (six); the
construction of three and rehabilitation of four pedestrian overpasses; the
construction of retaining structures (about 1,200m2) and fences (oome 6,8OOm).
The proposed infrastructure works amount to U5$7.2 million including
contingencies, which together represent about 3% of total project cost.
3.     Superstructure Rehabilitation Works. The track maintenance renewal
program, would consist of rail replacement with welded joints, elastic
fastenings supported on treated-timber and new crushed stone ballast; it aims
at providing an improved standard of track to cope with increasing traffic and
safety regulations. The malntenance of the track, L being improved steadily
by a mechanization program, which calls for increasing use of specialized
machinery. However, during recent years, this program together with the
general maintenance of the track, had to be scaled down becauee of financial
constraints. During the last five years only 144km of track were
rehabilitated, or 33% of their total main line network. in addition, the
targets set for the sleeper and rail renewal program were not met during the
period 1985-1990, only 35% of the needed sleepers and 61% of raile were
replaced (Tables 5 and 6). It is important to note that during the period
1988-1990, about US$15.0 million or 41% in CITU-SP were spent in permanent way
maintenance, compared with US$73.5 million and US$36.4 million programned. A



- 69 -
A?zNEX 3B
PAGE 2 of 7
major effort would be needed in the short term to reduce the backlog of track
maintenance.
4.    CBTU's specifications for track rehabilitation are summarlzed as
follows: (i) rails are standard 57kg/m of international specifications and are
welded by the flush-butt process at a fixed depots into longer lengths (240m)
before laying and are then joined again in the track using alumino-thermit
process; (ii) rail fastening are of elastic type, to be used in all track
renewals; (iii) timber sleepers are of selected wood and impregnated; (iv)
concrete sleepers are locally manufactured, pre- or post-tensioned and are
placed at 1850 per :Cm using elastic fastenings; and (v) crushed stone ballast
is provided at about 1500m3 per km. CBTU has prepared a detailed program for
selective track renewal and rehabilitation, to be initiated in 1992, and
completed in 1994; it calls for the purchase and installation of rails,
sleepers, fastenings rail switches and ballast in selected sections of both
systems, where total renewal or partial rehabilitation is needed, focusing on
those sections whose present conditions are not currently providing
reliability and safety. The track program is aimed at the rehabilitation of
about 244km of main line, also distributed in selected sections of the three
corridors of this system (table 8). These works have been estimated to cost
US$22.8 million, including contingencies, they represent 8% of the total
project cost. A summary of the condition of the track in the tw. systems,
before and after the project and the rehabilitation program, and the track
rehabilitation program (1992-1996), are presented in Tables 9A and 98 of this
Annex.
S.       ack aintenance Equuimet Rehabilitatlon. In early 1991, CBTU
restructured its organization, including the permanent way labor force,
decentrallzing the administration by corridors. It is felt however, that
further refinements are still needed for productivity improvemente, and for
allowing private participatLon in track maintenance tasks and thue continue to
reduco its staff. In addition, the planning, programming, cost accounting and
monitoring methods anid procedures need to be strengthened. A specific study
(man-power development/rationalization overall CBTU) has been included for
this purpose in the project (para. ... of the text). The track maintenance
force in CBTU-SP is divided into two residencies, with seven ouperintendencies
(districts), and 34 working gang groups, totaling some 316 staff (a reduction
of 88 staff compared to 404 staff in 1986), or 0.79 staff/km, still on the
higher side if compared with modern standards (0.40/0.50 staff/km). Each unit
has the responsibility for periodic routine maintenance in their sections of
track, including the cyclical work performed annually by special gange with
thc mechanized equipment. Major rehabilitation or new track works are carried
out by the private sector. The standards of maintenance can be asoesred
regularly on the graplhs produced by a track condition recording unit; CBTU-SP
hao one Pormanent Way workshop (Lapa), to provide maintenance support to track
equipmont. The condition of the equipment fleet has been gradually
deteriorating because of deferred maintenance, to a point in which a
significant number of equipment is currently out of order, having an average
availability of about 30%.  Table 10, gives a summary of the new permanent way
equipment, to be procured under the project. The cost of this component has
been estimated at US$S.1 million including contingencies, representilng about
1t of total project cost.



- 70-
ANLEX 3B
PAGE 3 of 7
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table l:    SUMMARY OF TRACK - LINE  CHARACTERISTICS
.. ,.   .. ...:..     ..    . . -                                       _
Crrtfidt .       :    -  ,ength: f}  -)   ~--X of: Curve         LnBt of Curve'
|_______.__..___                                  3 00 c R    <'5000Ac              Vm  )
Santos - Jundial                227.77              33                         9e2  
Lesto - Main                    110.81              43                       5,7o
Leste  BySass                    63.26              65                       1,280
TOTAL    401.84    .__
Zarble 2 :        SUMMARY OF TRACK - RAILS
; -;:: Cor$~oRafti                      _    Unit             Quantity         UsefuL Life
santos - JuLndai                    TR - 57             Tons           25966                   60
Lesto - Main                             57             Tons              6,462          -    60
TR -68             Tons               7,384               95
Leste - By Pass                     TR   57             Tons              7,212    _60
Table 3:    SUMMARY OF TRACK    SLEEPERS
_ ______________ _        =Percent _X)
Corridor                 Vood              Concrete (Units)
____________________________     5tJntU t )       NIono-Block      Si-Block
Santos   juaf                      100            , .
Leste - MaIn      _                 60               40
Lesto   Bypass                     100                .
e -tae                            39   -      - .                    .   -
TOA                            5.9                                          __ _____._
Prcenag 03.) 89                               _ _   ______ _
GRAND TOTAL              401.846
Source: C3TU
July 1991



- 71 -
ANNEX 3B
PAGE 4 of 7
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DE_ENTRALIZAT_ON PROJECT
Table 4:          SUMMARY OF TRACK EBALLAST
,::    rridor   .        :        BXallst             Length (In            ( Xf :  
Condition
Santos  Jundii                          Fair                 4.220               2.7
Leste - Main                         Fafr/Good               1,907               2.4
Leste - Bypass                          Fair                 3,39Z               3.9
Note:  Good  Clean   1.5S?/m
Fair - Partially clean 0.8 - I.Snm/m
Bad  - Polluted < 0.8m/m
Source: CBTU
JuLy 1991
Tjbhlg_5:         SUMMARY OF TRACK - SLEEPER  RENEWAL
Year         Sleepers Programmed          4umntities            4%)
________ _______    oP   Renew4at                           _ _ _  _ _ _
1986                    49609 __                  41,519               84
1987          -         55,945                    29,929               53
1988                    78,342                    71,198        ,      9
1989                    48 431                    37 685               78
1990                    47,900                    11,265               23
1985-1990              280,227                   191,596              68
TOTAL           1,952,15 _9692,441                                35
Source: C9TU
July 1991
Table  6l         SUMMARY OF TRACK - RAIL RENEWAL
____________                    _ _________Acu
----- a --~cua- --    -----
year                 Prormd                   (koi)                Z
__ _ _  _ _ _ _ _                    k n          ____ _  _ _ _ _ _
1986                             138.4    -            37.4                  97
1        __                       19.1                14.6                  76
198  _                            49.1                  15.8                 32
1989                              26.4                  18.8                 71
19                   -            63.9           -     34.3                  53
TOTAL                  196.9                120.9                  61
Sourcea CBTU
July 1991



- 72 -
PAGE 5 of 7
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table t7    SUMMARY OF TRACK - SPEED RESTRICTIONS
Extension with
Corridor                 Length        Normal            Restrictions         maximum
(Km)        Speed                                  Speed
CKmlh)          Km           (X)       (Kmlh)
Santos - Jundlaf                    227.7          80                     .                   n/r
Lesto - Main                         110.8         80                           _             nir
Lest* - Sy Pass                      63.3      E    0                                         n/r
TOTAL                401.                                        _n/r
Note: n/r : no restrictions
Source: CBTU
July 1991
Table 8:   TRACK REHABILITATION PROGRAM (1992-1996)
(Track-km)
Corridob                                2992        199          1994         a195            9          Total.
Santos-Juridfa                           11          78           68            .             .         157
Leste Hafn                               4           23         119          _           _     __          46
Lest* Bypass                             4           20           17 ?                        .            41
TOTAL                   19        121           104             .                       244.
Source: CBTU Ond Nissfon estimates
July 1991



BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 9A:  SUMMARY OF TRACK CONDITION
ACTUAL
Santos - Jundia.        22T.M        3        SY        6D        70       30        29         Fair       100        .t3532
Leste - Nain            710.8G 0      3       57        69        So       So        45         Fair    ItOU                   1.535       32i
l        1       ~~ ~~65    S5        .      100         95        Good      _'          100       1.666        32
iL"t> os             63.264       2        5lOFrr                                                       S01700                           32
==-i                         =,.= -                                                                                        .
___  ___ __  ___ ___  _               __  _     S T  ai   60               -10 tfF                 irli
Juty 1991
Table 9B:  SUMY  OF TRACK CONIDITION
.  . |.t          - -     F st n                                       
Santos - Jurtdisi    S5J .0      .7 5.              a                 100        22        Good    tO0       .      100671 80               32           2
Lest - main          45.405      - 1 1 0                              103 57  60  0  so   G 5           Fi  -         100        80  _     32            2
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __           6 8       9 5               1 006 8     910 0   5  G o o      1 0 0     1.            3 2     3
Leste-p  B           4t.264      *           2 57               603   - -  100            Go0   lO       a          00           8   _a     32      3 2
S        e: Cile 4                                 -              _   - -              - -                                         -  -
21 CtTss of trONk
5   Cl  |  lOtrXs. X F0eimi    I" . yeof    -Stlf     t:.l
|   } Z       . t~~~i::-tic     Cometkepr \ :5eDr:- 1,60
||2       g 2e:Jlr  IEtlgt/ligid ICmrA o | 11850 - 1,550                                                                                                        lb |
|3        R egutar  |Eltat/igid        Um         I 1550 - 1.300 tD3
1 4    IResutrr   Etrst/isid I VYwd            I      730       I<1
s4crce: 7U                                                                                                                                                         o lefi
ruly 199t                                                                                                                    
tea~.   #eua  IWe~a    R~eai tiii  I asi~Reewl    alas   ModConrte Ga~    ~rg~Lo  pi~    C*s             s



74 -                                                = B
PAGE 7 of 7
BRAZIL
MET-OPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 10:  PERMANENT WAY - NEW EQUIPMENT
1. Tck Machiny_ 
1.1    Rail grinder and trolley                            9               47.7
1.2    Screw spike driving unit                            15              60.2
1.3    Hyraul      i stretc      nt(PHT70)                     8               96.5
1.4    Motorized Truck fnct. crane  OBWU-8-BR)             2              325.1
1.5    Trolley for trucks 10 tons (A10-BR)                 2               38.6
1.6    RaIL cutting machine                                18              86.9
1.7    Rail drilling machfne tSCR ard MTX-40)              6               42.1
.a--Portableetti5gLset12                                                  164.7
1.9    Copctor (CP-70)                                     3               22.2
1.10   Sleeper drilling Unit (FRD)                         9               25.3
1.11   Grinder for turnouts (NEV-10)                       3                9.9
112   Portable wagons                                     10               45.9
1.13   Specfat grinder for welding (TRH-2)                 6              117.5
1.14   Hydraultc equipment for rails (WISP)                3               51.7
1.15   Portable trolleys for eQuiPment                     19              54.3
1.16   Miscellaneous                                                        9.1
1.17   BalLast regulator                                   1              440.0
1.18   Tamping. aligner and leveling unit                  1              950.0
1.19   T_nfl  unit for turnouts                            1            1 600.0
SUB TOTAL                       4 187.7
2. Track Plant Equipment                                      -
2.1    Crane 2 tons                                        1               13.5
2.2    Hilling (Frezadora) (FU-2A)                         I               18.0
2.3    MechanIcal lathe (ND.250-BE)                        1               34.0
2.4    Radial drill (FRM 50/1250)_                         2               88.0
2.5    Hydraulic crane (NHG2000)                           I                5.0
2.6  _eldin   quipmene _t                                  I               10.0
2.7    Universal latho                                     1               38.0
2.8    Overhead crane                                      1               20.0
2.9    Miscellaneous                                                        2.4
SUB TOTAL                          228.9
TOTAL Permanent Way Equipent                          14.416.6 1/
J/ This mount does not Include USS0.7 million of contfnpmncies.
Source: CBTU
July 1991



- 75 -
AMNEX -3C
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
STATIONS REHABILITATION WORKS
1.      The suburban rail transport systems in Sao Paulo has been subject to
several reforms and expansion processes during the last decades to cope with
increasing passenger demand. However, works performed were highly constrained
by scarce fund resources and often lacked proper planning. When the track
gauge was changed from meter to 1.60m, and the traction power was replaced to
electric, the profile of the platforms of existing stations were not reformed
accordingly, nor was their height in relation to the level of the track which,
in turn was modified repeatedly under several maintenance works. Furthermore,
the passenger accesses and transit areas of many stations were inadequate in
size and location, causing discomfort to the riders and often potential
hazardous conditions. These aspects, together with the lack of appropriate
maintenance contributed to a great extent, to induce passengers to other modes
of transportation, and indeed, deteriorated the image of CBTU among the users
and the public opinion. A major effort would be required to improve passenger
facilities.
2.     To this effect, CBTU recently completed a survey of all stations and
prepared a comprehensive program for the rehabilitation and modernization of
selected stations in both systems. The program also calls for the
construction of one station in CBTU-SP. Details of location and type of works
to be performed on those stations under the project for both systems, are
shoiwn in the following Chart. The proposed works contemplated in the project
have been estimated to cost about US$ 5.7 million including contingencies,
representing about 2% of the project cost.



-76-                                               ANNEX 3C
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
MetropoOltan llansport Decentrallzatlon Prolect Stations Rehabilitation Works
CBTU - Sao Paulo System
JundIaf
km 139+0.40
Varzta Pauasta
km 133 +910
Czmpo UmT9
kem 127,z9S5
Sotujur
km 123+694
Ftw sco Morato
km 117 +460
km 113 +70
FrW= d4a Rocha
km 111 293
km 106 * 178
Pom
km701 o465
kmi J90.95
Vila Ctrlic
km 93 + 0.53
nPhiluba
km 90 + 273
PiQuerl
km as + 223
k t"m8 + 0.62
Aqua t7rmrA
km r84 +396
Safra Funda
Tkm 81 +391
La:u                                          tEng*t3Gutdan
km 78 + 607                                 km 490 * 875
Ro~6evsll     CJg1¶findada
km78. 330              m4   13         krm494+60                     Com. Er4nvo
Mo474+023 q   t>S       P a                                                 6&oMi9u7
kmS              u ) km a                 09ulbiSTto.km493,0.19             k 481+501
km 70. km040
km?7 +  7                        CIO Carto                                                                      l'oOttim
km67 .436                                          rtr  tvOtn 473e+371
Uthwt                                            hm 488o3kmqu47   Itaqucetua
km a3 + 4de                                             km 481 i  220    _                                       Pei*
km 6b0 o 394                                                          kdVm *69 ne4          i       Km I O 3. 3
Pm67 9                                          448  +
CIIMIVI4                                                                          1cm 405,240g~ Suz no.k  42.648
km  u 56 24n
kbft X   24                                                                                                  e m 57+ 1
Ilee 53*+10h                                      d sQ>e                                              n 53o lO
a, 80fi'n .0As2+32k                                                                                                      _
knt 62 + 2.21                                                  km,t24s6   4km 444R                                       + 9 
SaMIo PiA.ddk  7   9
km 4652k 4
RloOraded4 Cot
km4t o 109
CaI4CpoGmd r
km 34 +  562
0 ReltaaitUon/?omw~zt.on0
k km3 *0  + Q
raioiopkn                                                                           M444*410~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta.wKT  3



- 77 -
ANNEX 3D
Page 1 of a
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ROLLING STOCK MOTIVE POWER AND WORKSHOPS/DEPOT
1.    This Annex evaluates the Investment Proposal requiremente raised by CBTU
with regard to Rolling Stock and Depot/Workshop maintenance support
facilities. The proposals are designed to improve passenger train set
availability and reliability to meet the planned future increased revenge
service.
2.    Such proposals cover the following &reas: (a) Refurbishment/
modernization of existing passenger train sets (EMU's); (b) replacement/
renovation/refurbilshnent of existing Depot/Workshop equipment; (t) procurement
of additional second hand locomotives; (d) refurbishment of freight cars.
3.    This Annex covers only the needs of CBTU-SP, commenting on its
requirements as listed below. The existing train sets are in average overall
condition but can presently only achieve around 60% service availability.
This substantial shortfall i.s caused by the reasons listed under 5. There io
a shortfall in the number of preventive maintenance Depot facilities to
support train set availability. Proposals to increase such facilities are
covered in this Annex.
4.    The main overhaul Workshops contain a mixture of adequate and run-down
plant, machinery and buildings. As a result of the outdated facilities
productivity is severely affected. The investment sought for the improvement
proposals will raise output significantly.
Rolling Stock Rehabilitation,Proposals and-their O_bectives
5.    Within the Sao Paulo network there are several passenger train sets
presently not ava'.lable for revenue service due to a number of reasons,
mainly: (a) Accident/collision damage; (b) lack of spare parts due to
budgetary restrictions; (c) materiai/components cannibalization, resulting
from (b). These factors significantly reduce the numbers of train sets for
passenger service use (train availability). An ideal service should provide
between 90% - 922 availability. The remaining 8% - 10 is being stopped for
essential maintenance. By investing in the rehabilitation, modernization and
re-equipping proposals studied in this Annex, both networks would raise train
availability figures significantly (see Annex 3 for targets).
6.    Tables 1 and 2 list the train availability statistics for CBTU-SP.
These tables show substantial anticipated increases in train availability
after implementation of the various proposals. The proposals presented to
achieve this, described in this Annex, are straightforward, feasible and
technically sound. CBTU would have to contract out all the work proposed due
to lack of current capacity within their own organization. The work contents
of the proposals are such that a wide range o0 capable Contractors could
submit competitive bids. The Contractors coul.db be Local or International or a
combination involving Joint Ventures or Licenrlng Agreements. The overall
work contents entail mechanical, electrical and civil engineering. The extent
of work, coupled with the quantities involved, would be very attractive to
interested Contractors. Therefore, the bidding should be extremely
competitive.



- 78 _
ANNEX 3D
Page 2 of 8
7.    The issues involving the types of bidding suited to such work have been
discussed in detail. Basically, out of the seven Rolling Stock proposals, six
can be subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB). This is due to:
(a) Their general scope of work and extent of material/parts supply; (b) the
high quantities involved (13+12+23+14+2+12+5 EMU's).  In this particular case
both the wor', content and component parts supply are specialized. It is
anticipated that the original manufacturer of the train sets could be the only
source able to return those two train sets to their original condition in
order to ensure compatibility with the other sets in the series.
8.    Of the seven rehabilitation/modernization proposals, five involve the
stainless steel carbody shells. Such a factor significantly increases the
justification for renovating instead of replacement by new stock due to their
non-corrosive values and strong construction. This, coupled with the cast
steel bogies, makes the life extension (in the region of 30 years) entirely
feasible.
WorksehonDevot Rehabilitation
9.    The Sao Paulo network is served by strategically sited Workshops and
Depots providing overall train preventive maintenance and heavy overhaul
facilities. However, from site visits to the Depot/Workshops it is readily
seen that extensive re-equipping, renovation and reform work is required to
support the planned passenger train service enhancement program. The sites
visited displayed outdated and run-down machinery, plant, equipment and
working environments in several places.
10.   For example, some of the existing above-floor wheelset lathes are over
30 years old. It was stated that the machine can now only output one wheelset
every two hours. The Mission's cursory examination of the procese would
support this. A modern, equivalent machine should be capable of outputting
wheelsete at the rate of two per hour (4 times output). All the proposals
associated with Depot/Workshop re-equipping and reforming are in the Mission's
opinion entirely justified and overdue. The implementation of the proposals
would create more efficient, effective, safe and attractive work environments.
This would lead to increased train set output required fcr the planned
increased passenger service by significantly reducing the time spent by train
sets under maintenance. Reliability of train sets in revenue service would
also increase. An improved work environment would be an additional benefit.
Table 3 lists the rehabilitation, re-equipping and modernization proposals
identified.
11.   The construction of one new Train Wash Plant is justified.  Presently,
only one mechanized wash plant exists in the system in RJ. To clean the
trains operating on the other corridors, washing by hand at the stabling
sidings is the current practice. This is labor intensive and very
inefficient. The sitings of the proposed Wash Plant has been planned to
handle the e timum numbers of trains with minimum disruption to services.
Acquisition of Second lIand Locomotives
12.   A proposal has been compiled associated with a requirement for eight (8)
second hand 2000 HP locomotives for the SP operations. At present, five
locomotives borrowed from REFSA are used but must be returned.
13.   A need has been identified to increase the existing fleet of five to
eight in order to suipport the planned increased passenger revenue service.
This is for two main reasons: (a) To provide additional support for network
maintenance. This involves Permanent Way and Traction Power Distribution
systems. The additional locomotives are required to ensure adequate



- 79 -
AN^NEX 3D
Page 3 of 8
availability to haul wagons containing materials such as track ballast and
rail for the Civil requirements. For the overhead line power requirements the
locomotives are needed to attend the associated maintenance vehicles; (b) to
provide ready assistance for retrieval of passenger trains stopped in service
thlrough breakdown or s7stem failure. Both these factors have the indirect
effect of: (l) decreasing passenger train headways thus increasing service,
and (ii) providing greater passenger comfort, safety and well-being by better
train ride quality and faster breakdown retrieval.
14.   A study of the numbers of locomotives throughout the CBTU system reveals
that no equivalent specification locomotives are available for transfer to
meet the needs described. The quantities and technical specifications
involved do not lead to foreseen problems/difficulties with regard to
International Competitive Bidding.
Aeuisition Versus Rehabilitation of Equipment
15.   CBTU's proposals are categorized as follows: (a) Passenger Train Set,
(EMUJ)# rehabilitation/refurbishment/modernization; (b) Workshop/Depot,
replacement/reformation/renovation of plant, machinery and equipment;
(c) locomotove, new procurement; (d) freight car refurbishment. Ac'uisition
against rehabilitation can be debated associated with these requirements as
follows:
16.   Passenger Trains - The age of the train set units involved are:
Sao Paulo
Stainless steel   23 EMU Series 101 - 35 years
Stainless steel - 12 EMU Series 160 - 11 years
Stainless steel - 14 EMU Series 400 - 25 years
NOTE: (i) For the 14 Series 400 sets electric traction equipment,
auxiliary energy supply and traction control equipment exist
within CBTU. Such items of equipment would be free-issued to the
successful Contractor; (ii) For the 23 EMU's of Series 101, the
line switches are already available and will be provided by CBTU.
The proposals listed above lend themselves entirely to
rehabilitation work. As mentioned earlier, the stainless steel bodyshells and
the heavy cast steel bogies ensure a prolonged life for the vehicles.
17.   Analysis of each proposal supports the case for refurbishment against
new procurement.  The maitn re-sons being: (a) Faster "delivery" time, thus
providing the proposed increased passenger service earlier; (b) lower
investment cost (around 50%); (c) equivalent car life expectancy.
18.   WORKSHOPS/DEPOTS - From detailed visits to all sites associated with the
proposals, the individual requirements are supported. These are to
replace/reform/renovate/refurbish/renew the run-down, outdated facilities
identified. The implementation of the proposals would contribute to attaining
the designed objective, that is, to increase train set availability for
revenue service.
19.  LOCOMOTIVES - As stated previoualy, it was confirmed that there are no
existing, suitable locomotives anywhere in the system for transfer.
Therefore, the procurement of second-hand locomotives (8 for SP) is juotified.
Work/Investigations to be done by CBTU Prior to Contract Awards



80 -
ANNEX 3D
Page 4 of 8
20.   Passenger Train Set Rehabilitation
Sao Paulo - 23 x Series 101
14 x Series 400
12 x Series 160
(a)   SERIES 101 - (i) Some design changes involved.  To be done by the
successful Contractor (included in the bid cost); (ii) CBTU to
commence work on the compilation of Technical Specifications early
May 1991, for completion within 2/3 months; (iii) work Contents
already exist from a previous modernization project; (iv) the
contract specification will include a proviso that the successful
Contractor will undertake the modernization work detail design.
(b)   SERIES 400 - CBTU has already modernized 63 EMU'e in this series.
Therefore, all Technical Specifications/Work Contents Lists and
detailed design are available.
NOTE: For all the seven individual proposals CBTU foresees no
problems with regard to the provision of all bid data within
the timescale planned.
(c)   SERIES 160 - There are no design changes involved.  CBTU will
introduce the missing components and required services for each
EMU on the work contents list and the Technical Specification.
Prior to contract award, the cars will be checked again to confirm
the list, in case further cannibalization of materials takes
place.
Workshop/Depot /Re-EauippinelModernization
21.   The 15 individual proposals submitted are divided into the following
categories: (a) New buildings/plant conetruction - 2 proposals; (b) civil
work/refurbishment - 4 proposals; (c) replacement of plant, machinery and
equipment - 8 proposals; (d) refurbishment of plant, machinery and equipment -
1 proposal.
or item (a) - Full detailed design and technical specifications did not
exist at the titme of appraisal. CBTU indicated that those should be
ready within 2-3 months for negotiation.
For item (b) - Only outline concepts exist at present. CBTU plan to
complete all bid information details within three months.
For item lc) - Full bid information package existing.
For item (d) - At present only outline concepts exist. CBTU plan to
complete all bid information details within three months.
Procurement of the Second Hand Diesel-Electric Locomotives
22.   For the procurement of the eight locomotives for SP, CBTU proposes to
use the Technical Specification of the existing five borrowed from RFFSA.
Maintenance Procedes-and Oreanizatioj-
23.   CBTU operates six separate network organizations of which Rio de Janeiro
and Sao Paulo comprise two of these. Each individual network is controlled
separately by similar, independent organizational structures. each



- 81 -
ANNEX 3D
Page 5 of 8
organization is responsible for the day-to-day operations within their own
area. This includes the main operational functions of Traffic, Maintenance,
Finance and Training. From the organizational charts studied along with
detailed discussion with relevant personnel and through site visits, it would
appear that the existing set-ups are adequate for the day-to-day management of
the current operations.
24.   An independent Project Team is located at the Rio de Janeiro Central
Headquarters Offices. This specialist team provides overall support
facilities for all six CBTU network areas. This Project Team were responsible
for the initial identification, investigation, compilation and processing of
the individual proposals covered by this Report.
25.   It is planned that the complete set of proposals, namely: (a) 7 separate
EMU schemes; (b) 15 separate Workshop/Depot schemes; (c) locomotive
procurement; (d) refurbishment of freight cars; when authorized, will be
placed on contract aware more or less simultaneously. Such an overall,
comprehensive plan/program will require extensive, detailed monitor and
control. Such control work will entail the essential project management
aspects of (i) cost, (ii) delivery and (iii) quality. This, coupled with the
extensive day-to-day general communications associated with contract technical
discussion, will require a dedicated, specialist team throughout the entire
project duration (between 2-3 years). Therefore, it is assumed that the CBTU
Central Project Team will be augmented accordingly. This would be by Engineer
grade disciplines specialized in the various proposal disciplines.
Costs and Benefits of the Program
26.   Each  Project Identification form generated covering the Workshop/Depot,
Rolling Stock and Locomotive proposals, contain estimated present day cost
indications.
27.   It can be stated that the eventual overall implementation of the
proposals will improve passenger train availability. This should have the
effect of increasing passenger volumes and the associated revenue earnings
substantially. Service reliability should also improve thus uplifting the
image of the CBTU system. Other benefits include increase passenger safety,
comfort and acceptance.
28.   From a detailed study of the information provided for each proposal
along with discussions held with associated CBTU personnel and site visits, it
would appear that all of the proposals presented for review are reasonable and
justified for the purposes of achieving the proposal performance and
operational targets.
Future Plans/ProRosals
29.   From general observations made during the various Depot/Workshop site
visits, it appears that further similar replacement/refurbishment programs
will need to be generated in the future. It is anticipated that the
implementation of any of the current proposals will not be wasted as a result
of any future similar proposals. Similarly, the majority of the current
proposals are associated with projects within Depots/Workshops sited
strategically throughout the network. Therefore, in the event of any future
rationalization/centralization of activities the current proposals should not
be affected.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3D
Page 6 of 8
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 1:   CONVEYANCE OF 940,000 PASSENGERS PER DAY (CURRENT ACTUAL)
TRAIN AVAILABILITY
s  f           |       -  ;   1    -   -:__ _ _ :_ _   -f iIIU;*             
_ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   X _ _ _ _ _   A e   t 1         K  Ht  l : ~   X  b 1
:~~p:cO~~d4o.~~s~~x....,w  P8SS@~~~~OI$<~~~ . T~~flfri set  QUant           TOTA.....L:.
Santos/Jundfai              545,000            101     1      20             3             13
431M            2             0              0
401            9              1             10
70O           24              1             4
SUB           55             5              8             60
TOTALS:
Leste (Tronco)               235,000           431            24             3             11
400M           15             5             25
401           12             2              14
SUB           51             10            16            61
._______________________                   . TOTALS:                 .          .               .   . _II
Leste (Variante)             160,000           160            28             12            30
400            18            11            58
SUB           38             23            39            64
._______________________ . __. __. __ ._   TOTALS: ,_ 
TOTAL                        940,000                         142            38             21            180     1



83 -
AMNEX 3D
Page 7 of 8
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table  2:   CONVEYANCE OF  1,260,000  PASSENGERS PER DAY  (FUTURE  PLANS)
.__________ __________  .____ _ _    ___  u Nmber   of  EMUJIs
__  _ _  _ _  __ _  _ _  _ :__:_-__._.                                        Not   avail   a6tIo. 
Passengers   Train set                    Quantity
Corridor            per day       series                       .                 .           VOTAL
Santos/Jundiai              724,000           101            20             3             13
431M1            2            0             0
401            22            2             10
700            22            3             4
SUB            66            8             8             74
__________ ____._ _____ __  .  TOTALS:
Leste (Tronco)              320,000           431            24             3             11
400H           27            3             10
SUB           51             6             11            57
TOTALS:  .      ._._._|
Leste (Variante)            216,000           160            32             8             20
4001M           9             1             10
SUB           41             9 _8                        50
TOTALS:
TOTAL                       1,260000                         158           23             13           181
* The Wortd Bank program includes for the modernization of 14 EMUs of Series 400.
Source: CBTU; July 1991



- 84 -
ANNEX 3D
Page 8 of 8
Table 3:           WORKSHOPS/DEPOTS
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR MAJOR CONTRACT
I r~PONSN '                 CONTRACT V/ALUa      ?Yg or  NO       . -o r      YP.  OF
' ______',.  .,,USSI,000        CONTkACT    CONTRACTS.   BIDDINGS.
Lope Workshop                                      380           Supply          01            LCB
Procurement of newi eguipment -6 ftmes_____
Lope Workshop                                     1600           SupplY          01            ICa
Procurement of a new 120 ton rail
crane                    .  .      ._ .                               _..                 __   .  _I
Lopa Workshop                                      800           Supply          01            lC3
Procurement of a new above floor wheel
turning lathe                              ._._.____
Lope Workshop                                      800            Work           01            LCB
Construction of 3 new pits for EMU
ffaintenance
LC3 - Local CopetitIve Bidding
iCB - International Competitive Bidding
Source: CBTU
July 1991
Table 4:   METROPOLITAN TRAINS - SAO PAULO
WORKSHOP, DEPOT AND OUTSTANDING M&INTENANCE
Maintenanre Depot                          Workshop _e_                .  Ots,tst natenane:.
Lepa                                  Lapa                                  Mogi Das Cruzes
Luz                                                                         Roosevelt
Roosevelt                                                                    Luz
Engo. Sao Paulo                                                             Ju.diai
_  Franc'eco Mciato
Sourco: CBTU
Juty 1991



85 -
ANNrX 3E
Page 1 of 8
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
SIGNALLING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRIFICATION
SiRna1liuag
1.    Present Situation and Current Programs - The three lines are fitted with
a train interval and operation signalling system allowing for running in both
directions. The equipment is very old and maintenance is difficult. The
network of cables is in very poor condition and suffers from vandalism. At
certain points, the installation of track circuits does not provide for the
required interval.
2.    The SANTOS-JUNDIAI line is equipped with an ATC system using speed steps
(0-20 km/h maximum speed) which does not allow the maximum authorized speed
of the train to be controlled nor to avoid passing through a stop signal. On
the LESTE-TRONCO and LESTE-VARIANTE lines there is no train speed control.
All three lines are fitted .lth a very old centralized control system which is
difficult to maintain.
3.    Recotmmendations - The improvements required to achieve eatisfactory
operation are provided for in the program, for the system capacity required.
In the event of a future increase in capacity, all line equipment would need
to be replaced (track circuits, signals, ATC, etc.).
Proposed Components
4.    (a)   Modification of track circuits arrangement.  The purpose of this
operation is to reinstall track circuits on certain sections of the
network to obtain a minimum interval of 6.5 minutes to achieve the
required system capacity (current interval is 8 minutes). This minimum
interval problem has been noted, but a complete analysis remains to be
carried out. This analysis could be carried out by CBTU-SP staff.
At appraisal, a complete set of specifications was not yet drawn
up. These technical specifications cannot be finalized for the present
60 Hz track circuits, but they should describe the existing ATC system
and provide for proposals for track circuits compatible with this ATC.
This addition on 4 zones leads to 17 track circuits. The list of
equipment point out: (a) use of monorail track circuit which is not
recommendable on main track; (b) similarly, the use of polyethylene
cable is not recommendable because it has no fire protection.
The track circuits removed could be salvaged for maintenance. It
is essential that CBTU-SP draw up these specifications urgently. The
advantage of this operation is to standardize the various possible
minimum intervals in order to achieve maximum equipment efficiency.
(b)   Purchase of point machines.  The purpose of this operation is
two-fold: to increase the number of spare machines in order to improve
preventive maintenance and to replace the crossings controlled by a
single machine, with crossings with one machine per point, by
eliminating the transmission systems and linkages, which are an
important source of faults. This operation will pose one technical
problem. The various types of machines are not directly.



- 86 -
ANNEX 3E
Page 2 of 8
interchangeable. There are differences in machine attachments,
connections to point, locking and control methods.
The problem of crossings can be overcome in two different ways:
either, by converting them into crossings with two machines, as
proposed, or by redesigning a more reliable linkage and transmission
system. It is certain that, with the type of machine used (control and
detection rods) the linkage is complex and that crossings with two
machines would be preferable. This operation will improve availability
by providing for preventive maintenance and by eliminating certain
sensitive installations. Nevertheless, it will not rejuvenate the
remaining stock of point machines which cannot continue to be repaired
for ever. The overall cost seems lightly overestimated. Nevertheless,
as the cost of the modification studies does not appear, we can assume
that this cost will cover the studies and the modification works
realized by the maintenance workshop. Overall, the program provides for
the purchase of 70 point machines. In order to avoid problems of
interchangeability and to facilitate future maintenance, we recommend
that these 70 macliines be allocated to a single line or section and to
use the machines recovered from this section for other areas. On
completion of the program, a survey of the state of installations should
be carried out to determine on which line the new machines should be
installed.
(c)   Replacement of interlocking cables.  The purpose of this operation
is to replace the most severely damaged parts of signalling cable in
order to improve availability and to eliminate risks likely to endanger
safety . Taking into account the installation of cables in ducts and
trenches, it would be preferable to avoid the use of cable with
polyethylene.
(d)   ATS. The purpose of this operation is to require the driver to
perform an action demonstrating his vigilance, at a safe distance from a
stop signal (at maximum speed), to ensure that braking is applied and,
in the event of inadequate braking, to apply the emergency brakes until
the train comes to a halt. The system to be installed is relatively
simple, but it may vary according to the functional specifications to be
drawn up and the required level of safety. Without eliminating driver
responsibility, this system will attract his attention, thus avoiding
several possible accidents.
(e) Signalling for the RFFSA connection at HOOCA. The purpose of this
operation is to ensure the safety of change-overs between RFFSA and
CBTU-SP at MOOCA and to facilitate such change-overs. The improvement
to the signalling system is simple and poses no specific technical
problems. The study remains to be completed. This relatively
inexpensive operation will greatly improve operating conditions and
safety at this connection,
(f)   Signalling for the RPPSA connection at PARATEI.  The purpose of
this operation is to ensure the safety of change-overs between RFFSA and
CBTU-SP at PARATEI and to facilitate such change-overs. The improvement
to the signalling system is simple and poses no specific technical
problems. The text of the joint contract remains to be submitted. This
relatively inexpensive operation will greatly improve operating
conditions and safety at this connection. In addition, it will release
two 24 hour-a day workstations and at least 10 employees. The various
remarks done concerning cables, safety relays and track circuits are
completely applicable. The overall estimate of this item is a 10 X



87 -
ANNEX 3E
Page 3 of 8
lower than our estimate but can be considered as acceptable in this
stage of project.
(g)   Signalling for the MOGI DAS CRUZES to ESTUDANTES stretch.  MOGI
DAS CRUZES is the main terminal station on the LESTE-TRONCO line (only a
few trains continue on to the next station, ESTUDANTES, serving the
University). It, therefore, requires a few parking positions and
operating facilities for arrivals and departures. For the interval of
l8 minutes required at this stage, this terminal station is oversized,
but it is designed for 9 minutes (future stage in increasing system
capacity). The link from this stretch of track to the main track is a
long way from the station and interferes with a level crossing. A
closer connection point would facilitate the management of arrivals and
departures and would simplify signalling for the level crossing.
A comparative study between the proposed system and a simplified
system complying closely with current requirements (interval of 18
minutes), would reveal whether this level of investment is justified,
according to the proposed date for increasing system capacity. As for
the other signalling installations, the program has not been completed.
The program provides for microprocessor interlocking, but the question
has arisen whether convyentional, relay-controlled interlocking would
also be possible. The study proposed above, will show whether it is
possible to reduce the proposed level of investment.
(h)   Centralized Traffic Control.  The three CBTU-SP lines are already
fitted with a centralized control system, the remote control part of
which is very old and subject to many faults. The renewal of the LUZ -
JUNDIAT section is covered by a contract, currently being completed.
The purpose of this operation is to renew the installationo of the rest
of the network. Transmissions will use the main, optical fiber, digital
radio network. Technical analysis has been completed. The technical
sFr'cifications have been drafted and are open for tender. The studies
have been completed. This centralized control is essential to achieve
satisfactory operation. Maintenance of the existing systems is
difficult and is very costly. The cost of maintaining the future system
will be lower.
5,  Comments concerning Proposed Components - These five operations across
the network require the purchase and deployment of equipment such as point
machines, track circuits, signals, etc. In order to retain equipment
standardization provided for interchangeability, CBTU-SP planned to opecify
equipment identical to the present, very old design equipment, which is no
longer in production. Such a decision would lead to a potentially very small
number of suppliers and would ensure that network signalling would remain in
its current archaic state, with high maintenance costs. It is recommended
that the specifications be open to proposals for equipment of modern design
and to install this equipment on one section of the network. The most
appropriate section would be LESTE - TRONCO from ESTUDANTES, MOGI DAS CRUZES.
A survey of existing installations should be carried out to determine the
section of the line to be modernized. This section would be the precursor to
the modernization of the network. The equipment recovered from this section
of the line would be used for operations on the rest of the network and as
spare parts for maintenance. This procedure will result in higher
installation labor costs but should provide for a reduction in equipment
acquisition costs. Above all, it will release CBTU-SP from a technological
constraint and open the way for modernization. A feasibility and
profitability study should be carried out to confirm the viability of this
approach.



- 88 
A&INEX 3E
Page 4 of 8
Telecommunications
6.    Present Situation and Current Programs - The copper cable data
transmission eystems are very old and in such a poor state of repair that
makes them unusable. Six recently installed telephone exchanges are operating
locally# but they are not interconnected becauGe of the poor state of the
transmission network. The other selective and open line telephone systems and
radio networks require modernization and reorganization. The old and poor
quality station loudspeaker equipment from various suppliers does not meet the
requirement of informing passengers. Only 65 of the 180 trains are fitted
with a loudspeaker system which allows the driver to make announcements to the
paosengers. The clock system for stations is installed but is not connected
to the master clock because of the poor condition of the transmission network.
The LUZ and ROOSEVELT control centers are equipped with telephone and radio
communication recorders, but the system is old and does not include time
recording. Only the LUZ station is fitted with a closed-circuit TV system.
7.    Recommendations - A reliable, high capacity transmission network is
essential to enable the other systems to become operational. The various
projects within the program are necessary to achieve satisfactory operation.
Operations provided for withln the Program
8.    (a)   Integrated optical fiber and digital radio telecommunications
system. The purpose of this operation is to equip the entire CBTU-SP
network with a reliable, high capacity transmission system to act as the
backbone for the other operational systems. This system operates with
fixed number of channels using active redundancy techniques. These
channels are used for essential operational linke. It totally overcomes
the problem of electro-magnetic induction which is always very high with
electrical traction systems. It also reduces theft, since optical fiber
cables have little commercial value, unlike copper cables. For the
capacity required, optical fiber links are less expensive than copper
cables .
In terms of capacity, the proposed system complies with CBTU-SP
transmission requirements. The technical specifications have been
drafted and are open for tender. No additional studies are required.
Transmission is clearly an essential part in making the various
operating systems operational. For the optical fiber network the
construction of a multitubular way does not appear to be included in the
rice. For the hertzian network the cost seems lightly over-estimated,
but for such estimate the degree of error is important. It is
recommended that all telecommunication systems (with the exception of
train and station loudspeaker systems) be combined into a single
contract.
(b) Secondary cable network. The purpose of this operation is to
replace the local remote control cables, in poor condition with
underground cables, protected from theft. This operation does not pose
any specific technical difficulties. The technical specifications and
the survey of the cables to be replaced have been completed. The
replacement of cables is essential to achieve a high level of
availability of the various systems. The estimates of the purchasing
costs for cables are acceptable but the costs of the local services seem
high (about twice the price in France for an equivalent service).
(c) Track telephone system. The purpose of this operation is to
create a telephone network (connectors distributed evenly alongside the
tracks) for the use of maintenance teams. The telephone connectors,



- 89 
ANNEX 3E
Page 5 of 8
distributed alongside the tracks, are connected to an existing control
center, via the main remote control system, thus providing links with
the associated CBTU-SP network. The specifications have been completed
and are open for tender. No further stulies are required. This
telephone network will enable maintenance teams to call any part of the
CBTU-SP network for assistance, thus making great savings in travelling
time.
(d)   Track-to-train radio.  The purpose of this operation is to provide
the CBTU-SP network with a radio link between the control center and
train drivers. The present radio network is overloaded and is
unreliable. Nevertheless it is to be retained for maintenance and the
security service (police). The proposed UHF system complies with UIC
and CCIR standards, and will provide the high quality transmission
required for satisfactory operation. The specifications have been
completed and are open for tender. The studies are adequate to issue a
call for tenders.
Ce)   Indication panels.  The purpose of this operation is to equip
large stations with several platforms or junctions, with panels
indicating destinations and departure times. This type of indicator is
very common in public places and poses no technical problems. The
specifications have been completed and are open for tender. No
additional studies are required. This system should improve
company-customer relations, by avoiding the continuous use of the
station loudspeaker system, which passengers find wearing. Technical
data was insufficient to allow an estimate. Nevertheless, the indicated
cost, US$10,000 per panel (without physical and price contingencies), is
acceptable.
(f)   Train loudspeaker equipment.  The purpose of this operation is to
equip all CBTU-SP trains with a loudspeaker system enabling the driver
to make announcements to the passengers and to warn them of the closure
of the doors. The proposed train loudspeaker system presents no
specific technical problemr. Following the TUE series, the work to be
carried out will vary greg ,.y. Certain series are fully equipped,
others already have all t.te train lines required and the internal
wiring. Other series will have to be fitted out in full. The technical
specifications have been completed and are suitable for international
tender. Technical documentation should include the list of components,
with the supplier, together with other possible sources of supply.  The
required documents should enable CBTU-SP to have all, or part of the
system, rebuilt by a third party. The train loudspeaker system is
essential to improve relationships with passengers. However, its use
has not been subject to a great deal of attention. The driver is the
person in contact with the passengers and he should be trained in
communication skills and monitored, since incorrect use of the system
could produce results contrary to those desired. Similarly, the
maintenance of the loudspeaker system should be monitored.   The desired
results are to project a better company image to customers, to make a
significant reduction in vandalism and to improve the regular running of
trains by avoiding delayed departures by ensuring that doors are closed
correctly. The idea of using the system to generate non-operational
income (advertising) should not be adopted, since "audio" advertising is
perceived badly by passengers. The anticipated cost of the
installation, approximately US$4 million, will be recovered with the
first train not destroyed by vandalism. Scheduling should also take
into account the installation of the ATS in some series (LESTE-TRONCO
and LESTE-VARIANTE).



- 90 -
ANNEX 3E
Page 6 of 8
(g)   Station loudspeaker equipment.  The purpose of this operation is
to complete the loudspeaker installation in all stations to enable the
station master to make announcements to passengers and company
personnel. An ins'-allation of this kind presents no specific technical
problems. The technical specifications have been completed and are open
Kor tender. No further studies are required. This operation is
essential to improve CBTU-SP- customer relations, but this will only be
achieved if the equipment is of the highest quality (kept in use) and if
the staff are trained in public address techniques. The idea of using
the system to generate non-operational income (advertising) shLc.d not
be adopted, since "audio" advertising is perceived badly by passengers.
The estimate of costs seems based on a simple installation, non
securised through redundancy.  The relatively low cost of this operation
(US$117,280) and the presence of high quality suppliers in Brazil,
suggests that LCB will be sufficient to promote competitive bidding.
Electrifl4ation
9.   Present Situatiori and Oneoins Programg   -  The general 88kV network power
supply is supplied by two local utilities.  These supplies are in tne process
of being uprated to 138kV. The supply voltage is stepped down to 33 Kv and
distributed, via a dual network, to the transformer and rectifier substations
on the SANTOS - JUNDIAI line. The substations on the LESTE lines are supplied
directly by the utilities. The 4.4 Kv or 6.6 Kv power supply for fixed
installations (mainly signalling,and workshops ) should gradually uprated to
13.2 Kv. Stations are supplied locally from the low voltage network.
10.   Certain sections of lines are supplied at 4.4 Kv from a single network.
This leads to the unavailability of signalling equipment in the event of the
failure of this supply. The switching cubicles are very old and their number
is inadequates particularly on the SANTOS - JUNDIAI line, which results in
long stretches of isolated track in the event of incidents or maintenance
operations. The overhead contact line distribution network is of english
design with rigid mounts. On some sections of the SANTOS - JUNDIAI and LESTE
-VARIANTE lines, the position of the contact wire is obtained by tension rods
common to several adjoining tracks, which results in the paralysis of all
tracks in the event of an incident on one of them or during maintenance
operations, thus preventing temporary single track operation. On certain
sections of the LESTE -TRONCO line, where the track has been replaced, the
overhead contact line is vertically or horizontally out of tolerance,
resulting in incident due to the escape of the pantograph. This type of
installation does not always enable zig-zagging on the overhead contact line,
resulting in rapid wear of the pantographs. Finally, some posts are in very
poor condition, particularly these foundations.
11.   Recommendations -  Of the electrification system as a whole, the network
of overhead contact lines (inclu4ing the switching devices) is most irk need of
overhaul. This is provided for by the program. CBTU-SP should provide for
the possibility of controlling sutation and switching cubicles remotely by
means of the integrated telecommunications system.
Proposed Components
12.   (a)   Physical separation of the overhead network.  The purpose of this
cperation is to make overhead contact lines independent of adjoining
tracks. Technically, this operation consists in installing new overhead
contact line attachments, on posts or gantries, with individual tension
rods for each overhead contact line. The specifications have been
completed and are ready for tender. The studies have been completed.
Down times caused by the collapse of several, adjoining overhead contact



- 91 -
ANNEX 3E
Page 7 of 8
lines should be eliminated. Technically, this operation is identical to
that concerned with the standardization of overhead contact line gauges
(item 3.3) and the two operations should be combined.
(b) ReinstallUtion of the overhead network switching devices. The
-  urpose of this operation is to install switching devices in suitable
locations in order to make best use of the possibility of single track
operation provided by the track and signalling system and not by the
network of overhead contact lines. This consists of installing air gaps
(with disconnecting switches installed on the overhead contact line
supports), close to points and crossings. The specifications have been
completed and are ready for tender.  The studies have been completed.
The reduction in the length of temporary single track will provide much
greater operational flexibility, in the event of overhead contact line
incidents and should also enable maintenance operations to be carried
out on overhead contact lines, without excessively hampering operation.
In order to facilitate the coordination of work, we recommend that this
operation be combined with those described in 3.1 and 3.3, into a single
contract.
(c)   Gauge standardization.  The purpose of this operation is to
replace the present overhead contact line supports with new supports, to
return the overhead contact line to tolerance gauge and to enable
zig-zagging on straight sections of track. Technically, this operation
is similar to that described in (a). The technical specifications have
been completed and are ready for tender. The studies have been
completed.  This operation will lead to a reduction in the number of
pantograph escape incidents and the localized wear of the pantograph.
We recommend that this operatior. be combined with the two previous
operations in a single contract.
flaintenage
13.   Current Overall Structure -  Table D.3 illustrates the current overall
maintenance structure (Signalling, Telecommunications, Electrification)'
14.   Recommendations -  The breakdown according to lines is satisfactory.
The numbder of levels is satisfactory.  The allocation of maintenance teams to
the line is good.  Table D.3 does not take into account workshops and
laboratories which depend on another department. In order to make
responsibilities clear, the relationship between the maintenance department
and workehops and laboratories should be put on a detailed, formal basis. No
maintenance work is sub-contracted owing to the irregularity of resources and
the lack of specialized companies on the market. Most equipment uses old,
electro-magneti technology which, in view of the lack of spare, results in
very rudimentary maintenance. The maintenance and repair workshops are
dispersed and are often in a very poor state of repair. This program include
the grouping of these workshops in a single building which remains to be
built.
15.   Signalling -  Table D.4 illustrates the distribution of maintenance
teams on the line.  This distribution is satisfactory.  The concept of
inspection by a third party does not appear to be applied. However, this is
essential for railway safety equipment.
16.   Telecoiuanications    The advent of electronic equipment fitted with
very large scale integration components will require laboratories to be
equipped with advanced testing equipment (universal automatic test benches).
17.   Electrification - No specific remarks.



92 -
ANNEX 3E
Page 8 of 8
18." Construction of a Workshop - Laboratory Building - The purpose of this
operation is to house all maintenance and repair operations for the range of
eq4j.pment, in a new, purpose-built building. The distribution of premises
according to specialty is satisfactory. The space available in specialized
workshops is satisfactory without being excessive,but passageways appear to be
ovetsized.



- 93 -
ANNEX 3F
Page 1 of 10
BRAZIL
METROPOLITA-N TRANSPORT DECENITRALIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
1.    The proposed projeut is scheduled to be implemented over a five year
period and monitored against a targeted time-schedule, starting January 1992
and ending June 30, 1996 (CBTU-SP, Annex 3F - pages 6 to 9 of this Annex), and
against the operational and financial performance targets shown in paragraph
3.22 of the text. With regard to item A Permanent Way, for the rehabilitation
of track infra/superstructure, detailed engineering has been completed and
bids are expected to be called, during April of 1992, and contracts for the
first lots for infrastructure works would be awarded starting in August 1992.
The procurement of materials required for track superstructure works has been
divided into subgroups; the bidding process is scheduled to start in September
of 1992, and the first contracts are to be awarded before July 1992. Works
included in item B, for the rehabilitation and modernization of stations, are
expected to start in September 1992, with completion dates towards mid 1994.
Concerning the Systems component shown as item C (telecommunications,
electrification and signaling), tenders would be called the second quarter of
1992, contracts are expected to be awarded during the latter part of 1992. In
regard to the construction and rehabilitation of workshops and purchase of
equipment included in item D, works would commence in September 1992 and be
completed during the last part of 1993. It is astimated that works for the
modernizationlrehabilitation of rolling stock included as item E, would start
in November of 1992 and be finished by June 1996. The development and
implementation of the various programs, studies and training under item F -
Institutional Development - would start during the second quarter of 1992, and
be completed by end of 1996. Table 1 shows the details of the Procurement
Schedule for major contracts of items to be financed under the loan, and Table
2 the estimated contractual and other payments.
2.    The project would be monitored through quarterly progress reports to be
forwarded to the Bank not later than one month after the end of each quarter,
and through at least two semi-annual meetings between CBTU's management and
the Bank. CBTU would submit quarterly progress reports in format satisfactory
to the Bank, to provide the following information.
A.    Civil and Mechanical Works
(a)   detailed computerized list of the main components, i.e., civil
works, including rehabilitation of permanent way
infra/superstructure, track renewal and construction; stations,
workshops; and installation of electric, signaling and
telecommunication systems; rehabilitation/modernization of EMU's,
wagons and track machinery, indicating contrart' information and
status of implementation in physical and fina. .ial terms;
(b)   summary tables indicating progress versus targets, and expenditure
and loan disbursement status;
(c)   brief description of problems encountered and corrective actions
taken or proposed.



- 94 -
ANNEX 3F
Page 2 of 10
B. Materials and Eguipment
(a)   detailed computerized list of materials and equipment to be
procured, i.e., rails, sleepers, fastenings, ballast, turnouts,
telecommunications, electric and signaling equipment, track and
workshop machinery, indicating the several actions involved in the
procurement process up to contract signature and delivery of goods
and status of implementation in physical and financial terms.
This list would also indicate the projected dates for each action
against actual performance;
(b)   summary tables indicating progress versus targets and expenditure
and loan disbursement status;
(c)   narrative summary highlighting proble4s encountered and actions
taken or proposed.
C. Technical Assistaaie
(a)   assessment of the progress made under each component of the
technical assistance program against agreed schedules and targets;
the identification of the problems encountered and recommendations
for remedial actions; and
(b)   summary of consultants progress reports and contract information
including expenditures and disbursements.
D. Training of Personnel
(a)   a summary of the progress made under each component of the
training program against agreed schedules and targets, the
identification of the problems encountered, and recommendations
for remedial actions;
(b)   updated timetables for training courses, seminars and other
activit.ies with an assessment of progress against set targets; and
(c)   summary of the consultants progress reports, and contract
information including expenditures and disbursements.
E. Traffic and Operational Performance
(a)   an assessment of traffic evolution and a summary of operating
statistics and operational targets agreed
(b)   narrative summary highlighting problems encountered and actions
taken or proposed.
F. Financial Matters
(a) working ratio ;
(b)   salaries and wages as a Z of working costs;
(c)   average train fare;
(d)   paying passengers per day;
3.    In addition, each quarterly report should contain: (a) a summary table
indicating, item by item, the appraisal estimates of costs versus expenditures



- 95 -
ANNEX 3F
Page 3 of 10
and loan disbursements as at the end of the reporting period ia. accordance
with the Project Accounts, and the balance of project loan in accordance with
the respective loan categories; and (b) quarterly movements and the balance
of the Special Accounts; and (c) a summary of loan covenants and their status
of compliance.
4.    In order to monitor the progress of project objectives and provide for
extensive dialogue between representatives of CBTU and the Bank, at least two
semi-annual meetings would be held:
(a)   at the first quarter of each year, the progress made during the
previous year would be reviewed with regard to:
- physical and financial status of CBTU's decentralization project
versus agreed targets, including all components financed under the
project;
- traffic and operations development;
- review of the impact of institutional reforms, and the status of
the action programs;
(b)   during the third quarter of each year, the primary focus would be
upon the next year's program with a review of;
CBTUis budget, and rehabilitation program, considering the level
of overall investments and priorities of the various components;
- evaluation criteria used for investment decisions;
- status of loan covenants.
5.    In addition to the foregoing, CBTU would forward to the Bank the
following specific reports by the dates indicated below:
(a)   annual operating and investment budgets including financing
plans - by November 10 of each year;
(b)   proposed normalization agreement to be included in the noxt year's
budget - by September 30 of each year;
(c)   pluriannual plans for CBTU-SP by December 31 of each project year.
(d)   corporate plan - by June 30, 1992;   and
(e)   revenues, working costs, depreciation and interest for CBTU-SP by
December 31 of each project year.



- 96 -
ANNEX 3F
BRAZIL                        Page  4  of  10
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT OECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 1: PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR MAJOR CONTRACTS 1f
SAO PAULO                                   Va       _   ,        N_. of    Noe ot           m   Fa.gg __Pp          _oA _n . _
Component                                           Qf 1ontrat,   Coniractr .Riding   Fseady  Invitad,, .3ioUett .  feoeUeg' '*.orki
A. ~ ~      ~      ~      ~        _ .tl  .o .s .____  .__._                                                          ____
1. Rehabilitation of Track Sunerstructura     __ . ..                              ._         . __
* Santo.- Jundial                         1.8653   Works           I       LCS       4/92       6/92      10/92                t1/92
2. Rehabilitation of Track Infrastructure  .         .   .  -   ._.._. _                                          . 
* Leste Bypass                           4.472     Works           I       LCB       3/92        4/92     10/92      __      _/92
Lecste Main                              2.777     Works           I       LCB       3/92       4/92      10/t2                11/92
S. Laboratory for Electronic.              3.058     Works          I       LCB        4/92       5/02      9/92                 10/92
4. Rohab./Modern. Stations       ____    .                          _                _
* Lot I (Santoc-Jundlal)                 1.022     Works           I       LCB       3/92       4/92      7/92                  /92
3,M 't&t   r,ir,                            __ __     '_ __  _        .     _  __    ._     _   ._. _: _ .  _ _._. __  _ __ _ _   _ _.____  .L 
.Tilmber Sleepers                        4.878     Supply  _      12       ICB        3192      4/92      10/92     11/92    _
.   Fastenings and Rail Fittings          11.137    Supply        4.0      ICB       4/92       5/92    11-12/92    4-5/92
* Welding Portions                        1.804     .upp     l     y 1      ICB       4/92       5/92     10/92      12/a2
CD~ti~1i1              ____ .__.                           _._.                        ___._ __         __ __ =       _______  __ __
.Trck Machinery                          3.807     Sup ly         2.3      ICB       4/92       5/92      11/92      1/93   .
. Workshop Machinery                     3.190     Supply         6.8      ICB        4/82      5/92      10/92     11/92   .
echfi4Wok4/_________                               ________   _____    ______                                       _____  ______._
a. Aaech6104 wonno 4/                                     
.Testhoommunicatlonc system               801.408    SUPp./work    I        CS        3/92      4ts2      11/92   _      .    12/92
*Audio Sy,tem for EME's                   4.434 _ upp./work    1-2         ICB        3/a2      4/92      8/92              .  8/92
.Signaling - ATS                         25.927   .3uQp./work      I       ICB        4/92      5/92      10/92             . 11/92
I Sipnallng - CTC                         11.438   1supp./work     1   .IB            4/92      4/92      10/92       1_ t1/82
_ Elsctrificatlon/Catenary               9.368    . upp./work      I       ICB        5/92      5/92      11/92                12/92
* Rolling Stock (EMU's ModerniZation/Rehabii.)
-Series 101                             _3.G83    Supp./work     I        ICB       4/92       4/92     10/92                 11/92
[__ - _erlee 40e0 :                 <   30.450   .3Supp./work .CB                   4/92       4/92     10/92
-_ Series 180 ____ _  _  __   __        9.533      upp./work     ¶        lIB       4/e2       4/92     10/92                 9/92
. i:pcnnicG1AsGastance' ,19.295    9rvices                            I     Other 3/    3/92       3/92      7/92                 5/92
1/ Of Items to be financed under tho Banki Loan
2/ Stan of Delivery
3/ Bank Guidelineo for selection of Consultants
4/ Consontium. for turn key jobs



Tabte 2: Implememttatlon Schedule
Esirmated Annuat Conftctual and OUer Payments
(USS Mrilon equivalent)
Protect Element              Irc Ir0ecItYearq___Yer_
7 s       -                  .'| E r .                            i I Wotal  Remariks
1992        1993        1994        1995        199s               Payment
- &~rNg. ..._
- Rehab. of P.Way Intres.
Leste Main                                   _ 0.617       1.697       OA63                                        2.m7               LCB
Lebate Sy Pass                          .      o.as.0.993  2.732       0.747                                    _ 4.472            _cB
- Peahb. o0 P.Way Supers.                                  . .             _        ._._.___
Santos-Jundlai i.                              0.184       0.705       0.674       -                               1.653              LCi
Lstae Main                                     0.119       0.516       0.437       .                               10710              LCB
- Staions                                                                              __                        _
Santos Jundlal:                         . __ _    .           _
Lot I                     _                   1.247       0.709       0.036                    _ -                1.992              LCB
Lot 2                                         0.855       0.214       0.020                                       18                 LCc
Leste Main                                     0.795       0.095       0.017      . 11O.S07                                          LCB
Leste By Pa.s                                  o.ea5       0.219  _    0.0211                                      1.135              LCB
- Systems                                     I_ _   __.        _                                                __
Electrification                                2.096       6.891       0.401                                   _9.38                  tCB
Signalin2                                     14.386      15.786       6.593       0.600                          3765 3              iCB
Telecom                                        6.e07      23.301      21.818      13.911       4.395              69.032             ICB 1
- Workshops                                       _                                                             .                     _
Rehabilitation                                 0.502       0.101                                                      0 .  0.60e      LCB
Constru Ctio n LaDprs       _______0.204                   0.717                               .                   0.521              LCtB
Timber sleepers                                1.627       1.322       1.729                   -      _            4.678 _              B
Fastenings               ._                    2.207       4.415       4.515       .     .                        11.137             ICi
Ballas_                                        0.302       o.eo5       0.605                                       1.512             LCB
Turnouts                     __         .      02218       0.327                                                   0.545              IcB
Wedldng portons                     _          0.20O       0.802       0.602 _ -_          _  -                    1.60'0     _       ICB
Ins. fishplates            _                   0.212       0.319      -           - .                              0;531 _I 0531 _    ICB
Trmck machinery            __ _                0.299       4.796                            .                      5095              ICEi
Locomotives                __      _           2.908       3.509 ;                    _ .       6.41S  _-_ 2GB
Worksho equpment    _                          1.096       2.094      .                  .    -                     3.190             IC0
0. M eCtal' iilW#W   .         __ __ _ _ ___ _                       __ __ _      __ __ _     __ __ _ ._ _ _ __          _ __ _.
EMUs Sarte 101                                1.222       13.t37      14.711       9.892       4.401              53.588           _ iCEIc _a
EMU's Sere 400                                 6.381       7.8B8       8.491        5200       2.518              30.458             tCB
EMU.s Serie 160                                2.30£t      3.612       3.813      .-                               9S33              1CB
Super-Aston                 .                  3.651       3      .6s6 9.64a       0.135       0.105               SAO      I      _ _
T.A. and studies                               4.735       4.746       1.102       0.176       0.137              10.895                                     tD
+v, ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~       __ _5._ =__  -    _T     _ r|          __                __         _                                    zS
Trael and expenses          _                  0238        0.238       0.041       0.042       0.041               0.60o_                                     0  1:4
Consutants               .                     0.1S8       0.196 .     0.0351      0.035       0.034               O500                                       th
'<~~_                     _   _         _ _         _   _    _   _ _      _  _ _ _S    _ _ _  _. s 2 _ _ _ s  _ _    _  _  _    _ _  _                    Oir sli
.*b68.30                                                100.120         5         2.490       11.030             281.000
(Bank-Financed)         __________                     (47.0)                  ( J 3    )   * 5J 0)  _ _ __   (126.0)  _  _ _  _  _ _ _
Feb 92



BRAZ2L
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
Project Implementation Schedule
CBTU - Sao Paulo
Item                        1991          1992              1993               1994              1995               1996
II _  .    r    lI it II                                             II  IIIV         _i it II IV
A. ~~_ PEMNN _W.AY                                                                                   . ._ 
1. Materials
- Purchase of limber Sleepers
- Preparaton of bidding documents
- Bidding
* Supply                                                          -   -   -          _                                                 f
- Purchase of Fastenings & Elements
- Preparathn of bidding documents           _
- Biddring 
- Supply                                                        .  -  -                                    1
- Purchase of B3alast
- Preparation of bidding documents          _
- Bidding
- supply
- Purchase of Turnouts                                    a                                    .
- Preparation of bidding docments
- Bidding                                                                        -
- Supply                                           l l.                                         
2. Works                                                   I                                    .
2.1 Superstructure rehabilitatfon
- Santos - Jundial
- Preparation of bidding documents
- Bidding                                                  _i. |                                        
- Works                                          f               - _  _  .         _
- Leste Main & By Pass:
- Preparation of bidding documents       _           I
. - Bidding                                                   -      f    .
- WoTs  E_|I_ iSEi 
2.2 Infrastructure Rehabiliation    
- Leste Maln:           -
Preparation of bidding documents       -                 _1*
- Bidding                                                              I 
-Works                               .                                                    -                                                    oli
-Leste By-Pass:                                                          I
- Preparaton of bidding documents
-Bidn            -                        ' d- .
- Works                                                             -            



BRAZIL
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
Project Implementation Schedule
CBTU - Sao Paulo
Item                        1991          1992               1993              1994               1995              1996
3.Purchase of Equipmentr                 lit  IV   I   II  II  IV     II 11        I    I _i li       V   Ij. _     III  I    I   I   III IfV
- Ught Equipment
Preparation of bidding documents
-Biddilng
-Supply                            .                                            -
- Heavy Equipment                                                           f
- Preparation of bddinn documents,
- Supply
4. upervision
- Preparation of TOFRs & Short Ust              .
- Selection
-Works                                                 j- 
B. STATIONS                                                                     I                               a
1. Rehabititation
-Santos- Jundlal Corridor
Lot I
- Preparation of bidding documents             _
- Bidding
- Works                                                      _
Lot2 2
- Preparatlon of bidding documents
- Bidding
Works
- Leste Main Corsidor
Lot I
- Preparation of bidding documents
- Bidding
- Leste By-Pass Corridor
Lot- 1
- Preparation o>f bidding documents                                                                                                             0 VIZii     
- Bidding                                                    _
- WorkS 
2.Supervson
- Preparation of TOR's & Short Ust
- Selection
- Works



-BRAL                                                                              pt 3
Metropolitan Wansport Decentralization Project
Project Implementation Schedule
CBTU - Sao Paulo
Item                         1991          12                1993               1994               1995               1996
C.SYSTEMS                                    III  IV    I      III  IV    I   II III IV     I   111 1I  IV   I   IIl )I)  JV   IL 11 III  IV
1. Signaling
- Preparaton of bidding documents
- Bidding
- Work                                                                         --            4-         
- ATSICTC                                 l 1 lm                                                t     t            t     t
Preparation of biddIng documents                _
-Bidding                                                                                                                       I
- Wors                                                           _ _                 _ __ I-
- Supendsloni
-Preparaon of TOR's & short 11st                  .                                            -   -   -
- Bidding
- Works                                                         _ _ __ _ _ -,,                                  .  _
2. 8e=r:fcon                                                                                                       I
-Catenaryi}                                                                                                              
- Preparation of bidding documents                                                                                                                        D .
- Biddlng                                                                                                        I
* Vorks                                                         - _____                    ___                                        i
- Supersion
- Preparation of TOWs & short fis
Selection                                                                                    I                  I                  I
- Works l__@l_    
3. Telecommunications
- Transmission                                                                             |        t,I                                   I
- Preparation of biddlng documents               _
- works                                                 II.d_   _                    |   I   !    A   _          t    _        I   ii I-
- Audlo System for EMtls                                                                                                         I  |S
- Preparaton of bidding documents                                                                                                                 CO
- SMing                                                                                                                              $_3~-   *    1
-VWotks                                                 l_                 +| |-                  -|-            
-Audo System In StaIons                                                                                           I fo
- Prepaation of bidding documents                                        1                                                      ii
wos wo -k



101  .
ANNEX V1~
S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..........         .........  ...... . . ..........  ........... ...    .........  .........  .... . ....... . ......... ..__ 
CD _D                                                                                            a)_  _  _       _..............................._____
<2 ge              to-        Pge    o  1
0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0)O*| _______         __ __   * __* __~__fi__ii_ ___ z________    ____W______*__*__________                        .hXw 
0)~~~~
0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)0t
I-
a0,, _   ._ _                                                                                                            _        _ . ._
~~~~~~~~~~u2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
zJ0§a    ---  .... 
00.a      _____ ,                         ...........                                . .w     
Q&on _ . . ,. .. _ . ,.G                                           ..
EE~~~ -i                                1       '- 1          '            C      -    -     11
a _> ..  , .. -                        1    -           -     )      '                 -    ' -'            )
0~~. 1               ~                   - .,,_....     --
5Q ~~~~~~~! ,  !
o 3               o                  o                                       o          H   
a~~ u
*                 .       .                      .                  ...      -...   . -.__



BRAZIL                                                                           PaW5
Metropolitan Transport Decentralizaton Project
Project Implementation Schedule
CBTU - Sao Paulo
Item                        t991          1992               1993              1994               1995              1996
III.!V      I     III _v   I   It1II  IV _ _I'l  IV    I    I III   IV     j if  [i  rv
2. Rehabfi1ta1lon ofEMU's                  --
-Preparation of bidding documents             .                                                                                 i
-Bidding                                             _    _                                                                   Ii;
-Works                             . _ : .                                       - ,                                              i
3. Purchas of Locnoffoves                                                                       .                     i               I
- Preparaion of bidding documents
* Selection                                                  _     _j 
4. Supervsison                                                                                                     i             i
- Preparaon of TOR's &Short ist             _       .
-Selection
Works                                                       _          _   .    -                             i      . -  -
F. INSlTrUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                       | 
- Preparaton of TORs & Short Ust
- Selecton                                           _   =
- WorkS                                                                                      i                                i
-I~~~~~~~~~~~-
I   I             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-L



~~~~~~- lO3-
PAGE 1 of 10
NETRQ,PL',.q   TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
THE IMPACT OF DECENTRALIZATION OF THE CBTU ON STATE
AND MUNICIPAL FINA%NCES
Sumary
1.    The evaluation of the capacity of the state of Sao PQVlo (SP) to assume
the financial burden of the decentralized sub-division has been done
considering the past financial performance in the recent past and the
projected needs of future operating and capital subsidies. In the case of
9BTU-SP, the state's sound financial performance and the comparatively small
magnitude of the subsidy needs indicate that SP may have no problems in
sustaining the sub-division after decentralization.
An Overview of State and Municipal Finances in SP
State of Sao Paulo
2.    In the last 2 years, Sao Paulo State (SP) had net revenues of US$19.3
billion and total expenditures of US$22 billion. The deficit has been financed
by short-run loans, supplier's credits, official credit, and accumulated
arrears. Per capita net revenues show a growing trend (see table 4A.2) over
the last 6 years, although the credit/total revenue ratio has also been
growing, reaching 9% in 1990, compared to 6.2% in 1988.
3.    Total investments financed by SP's treasury (include both inter a.,
intragovernmental capital transfers), that amounted to US$2.9 billion in 1990,
or 12.8% of total expenditures. In per capita terms, they corresponded to
US$88, very close to the average (US$89) for the last 5 years.
4.    The self-financing margin (net revenues less current expenditures),
which is a measure of government current sav^. gsq has declined from US$2.6
billion in 1989 to US$1 billion in 1990, as a result of a US$500 million
reduction in current revenues and a US$1 billion increase in current
expenditures. For this reason, SP could finance 82.4% of its investments with
its current savings in 1989, but only 35.6% in 1990. The wage-bill of the
direct administration corresponded to less than 40% of net revenues in the
last 5 years, although showing a small increase from 1989 to 1990. Altogether,
the hard-to-compress expenditures - salaries, debt service and amortization-
has been below 50% of net revenues, giving flexibility to the state finances.
5.    In 1991, due to the ongoing economic recession, which has resulted from
the macro-adjustment policies introduced by the federal administration, SP's
finance suffered from real reduction of tax revenues, particularly in the last
2 quarters. However, we may expect that, as the national economy recovers, S.
Paulo will resume past growth and so will its fiscal revenues. The impact of
the fiscal changes contained in the new constitution will help S. Paulo's
revenues to regain, in 1992, the 1989 level.



- 104 -
AMNEX 4A
PAGE 2 of 10
Municipality of Sao Paulo
6.    The total revenues of the Municipality of Sao Paulo (MSP), on average,
for the last 2 years, were of US$2.7 billion, against annual average
expenditures of US$3.4 billion. As in the case of other governments, this
deficit is carried over to the following years, compounding the financial
problems. The credit revenue in the last 2 years (Ms Erundina administration)
were, on average, of US$200 million per year, as compared to an average of
US$740 million in the 1987/88 period, the last two years of the former
municipal administration. Nevertheless, the net revenues have increased to an
average of US$2.5 billion in 1989-90, as compared to the US$1.8 billion
average for 1987-88. This is a direct result of the 1988 constitutional tax
reform (whose effects started Jn March 1989) in the municipal finances. The
per capita net revenues have increased from US$158 in 1988 to US$224 in 1990,
and the credit/total revenue ratio has decreased from 31.6% to 7.2% in the
same period. Borrowing as a % of total revenue has remained quite high -
about 50% of the municipality own revenues.
7.    MSP invested US$957 million in 1990 - 60% directly and 40% through its
indirect administration - which corresponded to 27% of total expenditures.
There was a sharp increase if compared to 1989 (only US$391 million). The per
capita investments reached US$85 in 1990, compared to the average of US$77
made by the previous administration during its 1986-88 term. The self-
financing margin that was negative until 1988 became positive from 1989 on,
but the current savings are still too small (an average of US$150 million in
1989-90) to finance a significant share of MSP's investments.
8.    The commitment of net revenues to expenditures on direct administration
salaries and debt service and amortization, has declined from 67% in 1988 to
50% in 1990 - although the direct administration wage-bill increased 56% in
the same period - giving more flexibility to the municipal finance. The intra-
governmental and "other" current transfers amounted to only US$380 million, so
even if most of these expenditures corresponded to indirect labour costs, the
total wage-bill may not exceed 50% of net revenues. The overall financial
situation of MSP should be considered reasonably good, and the country's
present unstable economic situation should not affect its finance with the
same intensity as in the case of large state governments, such as SP and RJ.
MSP, like MRJ, has a much more diversified revenue base - 4 taxes, several
user charges and transfer revenues from both state and federal governments -
than RJ and SP, that basically rely on the state value-added tax (ICMS)
revenue, that is severely affected by both recession and price controls.
Expenditures on Urban Transportation
9.    Considering the annual average governmental expenditures on
transportation as a whole (not only urban) during the past decade, US$1.9
billion were spent by SP (12.7% of its total expenditures).
10.   Although there is no complete information on urban transportation
expenditures by state and municipal governments in Sao Paulo, Tables VI and
VII present a good overall view of what has been spent by the two state
governments in their urban transportation companies.
11.   In SP, the important expenditure costs for the state treasury in urban
transportation correspond to the Metro and to FEPASA. With respect to the rail
company, the figures presented correspond to the overall current transfors
received from SP which are supposed to be subsidising the passenger
transportation operations, since the freight activities are lucrative. Table
VII shows a clear growing trend in urban transportation expenditures made by



- 105 -
ANNEX 4A
PAGE 3 of 10
SP, that have increased from US$335 million in 1987 to US$850 million in 1990.
There are no break-down of information for MSP, that has been spending over
US$500 million per year on transportation, so it is difficult to lcnow exactly
how much CHTC is costing to the municipal treasury. Nevertheless, if a
comparison is made with MRJ, that doesn't carry the burden of operating a
gublic bus system, one can infer that CMTC alone should be responsible for a
high share of NSP's expenditures.
Financial Imnact of Decentralization on State and Municipal Governments
12.   The CBTU-SP rail system to be decentralized required  an operating
subsidy (normalization) of US$70 million in 1990, but as a consequence of the
rehabilitation project, increased traffic and fares, and higher productivity,
these subsidies are forecast to reduce to US$28.2 million by 1993 and to only
US$9.3 million by project completion in 1996. Since SP already runs rail
systems (FEPASA and the Metro), it clearly has the managerial capacity to take
over the new urban rail company, and in terms of costs, the additional US$9.3
million represents a negligible impact. In 1990, SP has spent almost US$200
million on operating subsidies to urban transportation, half of which with the
Metro alone. Furthermore, it should be noted that SP had in 1990 overall
current expenditures of US$16.4 billion, of which US$2.8 billion corresponded
to intra-governmental current transfers, that is, what was passed by the state
treasury as current subsidies to the indirect administration (public companies
and foundations).
13.   Concerning the capital costs of future investments in the new rail
company, it is estimated that, on average, an annual replacement investment of
US$54 million would be needed. Although substantially higher than the
operating subsidies, it is also a small figure if compared to the US$2.8
billion invested by SP in 1990, of which US$650 million corresponded to the
Metro alone. MSP, already overburdened with the costs of CHTC subsidies, will
not have any financial participation in the future metropolitan rail company.



-  106. -                        ~~~~ANNEX 4A
BRAZIL                                                       -Pa~ge4  Zof 10
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRAUZATION PROJECT
TABLE 4A.1 SAO PAUILO STATS GOVERNMENT
REVENUES, EXPENDITURES AND DEBT
VALUES IN CONSTANT PRICES                                             (in us$ Million Of 1990)
DISCRIMINATION               1985           1988           1987            19888          1989            1990
lwww nm
TOTAL REVtNJE          -1,0.0 ___18,241.3                          16,528.3  ,,      .-9.9        1,6.            1,8.
CURRENT REVeNUE-S                  12,138.3  _    18,888.1        15,178.1       1442,0          18,052.3       17,455.0
TAX REVENUE                       1_0,287.1       14,048.2       11,827.4       11,505.         14,085.1       14,578.8
CURRENT TRANSFERS           1        778.0          981.2           934.4        1.580.4 1       1,588.0        1,920.3
FPE- QUOTA                           88.0          1861.5         110.5           107.1          124.8            58.2
OTHER TRANSFERS                     722.9  _       819.7          823.9         1,473.3         1,483.4188.
OTHER C REVENUES                   1,071.2         1,837.7        2,414.3        1,358.1         2,399.2          955.9
CAPITAL REVENUES                     1,013.7        1,578.2        1,352.2          957.9         1,418.7        1,728.5
CREDIT REVENUE                     1,005.4  _      1,413.9        1,347.8          955.3         1,409.8        1,728.1
OTHER K REVENUES            18.4                    182.3             4.8            2.8             7.1            0.4
TOTAL_RF_W EXPEDVIU R R              13,339.1       18,325.9       17,813.9        17,813.7       21,272.8        22,804.4
CURRENT EXPENDIT'URES              10,208.0        13,568.0       13,592.5       12,924.9        15,478.9       16,420.8
GOODS & SERVICES                   8,55a.7         7,480.4        7,851.5        7,125.5         8,542.5        9,272.3'
SALARIES                          4,525.5        6,281.7         6,290.2        5,092.0         8,042.5          9271
OTHER                         1 ,.1033.2          1,218.7        1,613          2,033.8         2,500.0        2.350.6
CURRENT TRANSFERS                  4,849.3         8,087.6        5,941.0        5,799.3         6,938.3        7.148.3,
INTRA..GOVERNMENTAL               1,853.8         2,408.4        2,800.5        2,575.0         2,804.7        2,788.0
INTER-GOVERNMENTAL'               2,189.1         3,039.1        2,584.7        2:602.4         3,805.7        4,250.0
DEBT SERVICE                        458.2          395.2      . 358.8             433.8           74.3           110.2
INWTRNAL                           300.2          275.3          307.0           390.0           57.1           102.0
EXTERNAL                           15$8.0         119.8           51.7            43.7           17.2 18.2 _
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                3,131.0         4,757.9        4,221.4        4,888.8         5,793.9        8,383.8
INVESTMENTS                          358.5          942.2          944.2           801.5         1,074.3        1,242.81
CAPITAL TRANSFERS                  1,812.3         2,738.8        2,185.1        2,398.1         3,440.9        2,872.2
INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL                1,117.9         1,937.5        1,493.2        1,886.3         1,901.4        1.544,2
INTER-GOVERNMENTAL                   47.2           97.5           77.8            93.2          157.3           122.3
DEBTAMORTIZATION                    642.2          8 91.1         601.1           632.7         1,371.6       -1,205.7
INTERNAL                           549.7          517.8          538.5           488.4         1,290.8        1,195.5
EXTEPNAL                            92.8          173.8           82.7           148.3           80.8            10.1
OTHER K EXPENDITURES                 982.3         1,077.         1,092.1        1,491.2         1,278.7        2,288.8
TOTAL CONSOLIDATED DEST              2 .2098.3       2,898.1        2,209.2         1,638.7        1,891.9        2,494.0
,INTERNAL                             843.3     1 ,8.43.1          1,356.0          927.6         1,431.8         2,102.7
BONDS                                858.3         1,428.7         990.8           222.7          547.9           528.8
CONTRACTS         I____               85.0          214.5          385.3           704.9          883.9]        1,573.9
EXTERNAL                    I       1,253.1         1,053.0         8531.2          709.11         460.1           391.3
INET FLOATING DEBT           10.0                      253.8        1,342.11        2,384.21       1.925.21       -1,328.3H
CBS.: Values In Oct.90 prices(85-89), converted usIng Oct. 90 average exchange-rate (USS1.00=Cr$94.974).
Revenue/expenditure values for 1990 converted using average exchange-rate(LIS$ 1.00 - CR$ 68.5.5)
Debt values for 1990 converted.usIng December exchange-rate (US$1.00 -l CR$ 158.74)
SOURCES: Oopartamanto do Toeouro Naclonal - DTN (1985-89) and budgetary balance for 1990.



- 107 -                              ANNEX 4A
Page 5 of 10
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 4A.2  S:AO PAULO STATE GOVERNMENT
REVENUE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(In US$ million of 1990)
CODE          DISCRIMINATION          1985    1986    1987    1988    1989  | 1990
__~ _                  ,                                     -         -=l'__- 
1.0000 TOTAL REVENUES               13,150.0 18,241.3 16,528.3 15,399.9 19,469.0 19,183.6
1.1000  CURRENT REVENUES            .12,136.3 16,665.1 15,176.1 14,442.0 18,052.3 17,455.0
1.1100   TAX REVENUE                10,287.1 14,046.2 11,827.4 11,505.5 14,065.1 14,578.8
1.1200   CURRENT TRANSFERS            778.0   981.2   934.4  1,580.4  1,588.0  1,920.3
1.1210    FPM - QUOTA                  55.0  161.5   110.5   107.1   124.6    56.2
1.1220    OTHER TRANSFERS             722.9   819.7   823.9  1,473.3  1,463.4  1,864.1
1.1300   OTHER C REVENUES            1,071.2  1 ,637.7  2,414.3  1,356.1  2.399,2   955.9
1.2000  CAPITAL REVENUES             1,013.7  1,576.2  1,352.2   957.9  1,416.7  1,728.5
1.2100   CREDIT REVENUE              1,005.4  1,413.9  1,347.6   955.3  1,409.6  1,728.1
1.2200   OTHER K REVENUES               8.4   162.3       4.6     2.6      7.1      0.4
3.0000L|RESID.POPULATION (THOUS.)   29,542   30,238. 30,943   31,652   32.362   33.070
4.0000 NET REVENUES (1)             12,144.7 16,827.4 15,180.7 14,444.6 18,059.4 1 7,455.5
5.1000 PER CAPITATAX REV. (2)         348.2   464.5   382.2   363.5   434.6   440.8
5.2000 PER CAPITA NET REV. (3)        411.1   556.5   490.6   456.4   558.0   527.8
5.3000 |PER CAPITA TRANSF.REV.(4)      26.31   32.5    30.2    49.9    49.1    58.1
6. '00 TAX REV./NET REVENUE (5)       84.7°h   83.5%   77.9%   79.7%    77.9%    83.5%
r.oo00 TRANSFERS/NETREVENUE(6)    8 6.4%        5.8%    6.2%    10.9%     8.8%    11.0%
6.3000 CREDITfOTALREVENUE  )           7.6%    7.8%    8.2%    6.2%       7.2%    9.0%
1- 1.0000 - 1.2100 In US$ million
2- 1.1100 /3.0000 In dollars
3- 4.0000 /3.0000 In dollars
4- 1.1200/ 3.0000 In dollars
5- 1.1100 /4.0000 In percentage
6- 1.1200 / 4.0000 In percentage
7- 1.2100 / 1.0000 In percentage



- 108                                ANNEX 4A
Page 6Tf 10
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRAUZATION PROJECT
TABLE 4A.3 SAO PAULO STATE GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(in US$ million of 1990)
CODE         DISCRIMINATION         1985    1986    1987    1988  1 1989    1990
2.0000     j                       2,387.9  2,693.5  2,779.9  3,374.6  3,186.8  3,538.1
2.1000  CURRENT EXPENDITURES       1,769.3  2,072.6  1,840.3  2,023.9  2,373.1  2,367.1
2.1100   GOODS & SERVICES          1,206.1 1,497.3  1,318.8  1,428.3  1,674.4  1,931.6
2.1110    SALARIES                  697.9   965.7   640.2   649.9   997.1  1,015.2
2.1120    OTHER                     508.3   531.6   678.6   778.4   677.3   916.4
2.1200   CURRENT TRANSFERS          563.2   575.2   521.4   595.6   698.7   435.5
2.1210    INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL        141.0   182 6    67.6   130.2   338.6  - 102.8
2.1220    INTER-GOVERNMENTAL          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
2.1230    DEBT SERVICE              228.6   138.5   261.1   269.6    74.3    52.7
2.1231     INTERNAL                  152.0    93.2   219.9   246.5    62.1    34.7
2.1232,    EXTERNAL                  76.6    45.3    41.1    23.1    12.2    17.9
2.2000  CAPITAL EXPENDITURES        618.6   620.9   939.7  1.350.7   813.7  1,171.0
2.2100   INVESTMENTS                358.7   365.1   518.1  1,100.2   376.8   579.1
2.2200   CAPITAL TRANSFERS          183.8   232.3   352.1   219.8   388.1   582.9
2.2210    INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL         21.111   0.0    26.8      6.0     2.6   378.1
2.2220   _INTER-GOVERNMENTAL          0.0|       0.0     0.0      0.0  0.0     0.0
2.2230    DEBT AMORTIZATION         161.8   231.6   325.0   213.3   384.6   204.8
2.2231     INTERNAL                  55.1   131.1   177.2   104.1   256.2   191.1
2,2232     EXTERNAL                 106.8   100.5   147.8   109.2   128.5    13.6
2.2300   OTHER K EXPENDITURES        76.1    23.6    69.4    30.7    48.8      9.1
3.0000 IRESID.POPULATION (THOUS.)  10,063  10,289  10,520  10,756  10,997  11.244
4.0000 NET IENUES(1)               1,734.8  2 082.6  1 825.1  1,697.1  2,518.0  2,523.0
7.1000 INVESTMENTS PER CAPITA(2)     37.7    35.5    51.8 I  102.8    34.5    85.1
7.2000 SALARIES PER CAPITA (3)       69.3    93.9    60.9    60.4    S0.7    90,3
7.3000 1DEBT PAYMENT PER CAP.(4)  1  38.8    36.0    55.7    44,9    41.7    22.9
8.0000 SELF FINANCING MARGIN (5)    (34.5)   10.0   (I52)  (326.9   144.9   155.9
9.1000 |CUFRENT EXPEND.INDEX       102.0%   99.5%  100.8%  119.3%   94.2%   93.8%
9.2000 WAGES EXPEND. INDEX (7)      40.2% I 46.4%   35.1%   38.3%   39.6%   40.2%
9.3000 EXP.COMMITMENT INDEX (8)    62.7%1L 64.1 %   67.2%   66.8%   57.8%   50.4%
9.4000 INVESTMENT WEIGHT (9)        15.9%   13.6%1 19.6%   32.8%   11.9%   27.1%
9.5000 AUTO-INVEST.CAPACITY (10)    -9.1 %|  2.7%11 -2.8%  -29.5%   38.2%    1 6.3% I I
1- Total Revenues less-Credit Revenues (in US$ millions)
2- (2.2100 + 2.2210) /3.0000 in dollars
3.2.1110 / 3.0000 In dollars
4- (2.1230 + 2.2230) / 3.0000 In dollars
5- 4.0000 - 2.1 000 In dollars
6- 2.1000/ 4.0000 In percentage
7- 2.1110 /4.0000 In percentage
8- (2.2230 + 2.1230 + 2.1110) / 4.0000 In percentage
9- (2.2210 + 2.2100) / 2.0000 In percentage
10- 8.0000 / (2.22w 0 + 2.2100) in percentage



109                                          ANNEX 4A
Page 7 of 10
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 4A.4 SAO PAULO MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
REVENUES. 1tPENDITURES AND DEBT
VALUES IN CONSTANT PRICES                                        On US$ milllon of 1990)
DISCRIMINATION            1 985         1 8s8         1987          1 988         1989           1990
TOrTAL REVENUES.                  7;7B1W .:g.;- 4).           2 519.2 :;  -      4'1.82,753 2
CURRENT-REVENUES                 1.724.1       2065.2        1,086.8       1,615.1        2,504.7       2,3222
TAX REVENUE                       727.5         875.3         810.1         659.0         639.2         97864
CURRENT TRANSFERS                 807.0       1,055.3         857.2         736.4        1,084.4       1,21386
FPM . QUOTA   _ _0.0                             0.0           O._ O_                     OOO           14.5
OTHER TRANSFERS                  807.0       1,055.3         857.2         738.4        1.08441       1199S.1
OTHER C REVENUES                  189.6         134.6         139.5         219.7         781.1         132.1
CAPITAL REVENUES                   437.1         183.6         712.4         866.8         248.5         396.6
CRECiT REVENUE                    426.3         166.2         694.1         704.8         235.2         195s8
OTHER K REVENUES                   10.8          17.4_ 18.3                  82.0          13.3         200.8
CURRENT EXPENDITURES             1,769.3       2,072.6       1,840.3       2.023.9        2,373.1       2,367.:
GOODS & SERVICES                1,208.1       1,497.3       1,_ 1318.8    1,428.3        1,674.4       1,931.6
SALARIES                         697.9         965.7         640.2         649.9         997.1        1,015.2
OTHER                   _08.3                  531.6         678.6         778.4         677.3         91t64
CURRENT TRANSFERS                 563.2         575.2         521.4         595.6         698.7         435.5
INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL               141.0         182.6          87.6         130.2         338.6         102.8
INTER-GOVERNMENTAL                 0.0 o.o.   _ o.o                          0             0.0           0.0
DEBT SERVICE                     228.6         138.5    _   261.1          269.8          74.3          52.7
INTERNAL                        152.0          93.2         219.9         246.5          62.1          34.7
EXrERNAL                         76.6 .        45.3          41.1      .  23.1 .         12.2          17.9
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES               618.6         620.9         939.7       1,350.7         813.7        1,171.0
INVESTMENTS                       358.7        3865.1         518.1       1,100.2         376.8         679.1
CAPITALTRANSFERS                  163.8         232.3         352.1         219.8         388.1         582.9
INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL                21.1           0.0          26.8           6.0           2.6         378.1
INTER-GOVERNMENTAL                 0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
DEBT AMORTIZATION                161.8         231.6         325.0         213.3         384.6         204.8
INTERNAL                         55.1.        131.t         177.2         104.1.        256.2  .      191.1
EXTERNAL                        106.8         100.5         147.8         109.2         128.5          13.6
OTHER K EXPENDITURES               76.1          23.6          69.4          30.7          48.8           9.1
TOTAL CONSOLIDATEN DE.a;t . S .:: 1 ,70'6.0   .:"4822         1,619.2 . .   1 ,587.5  *... ...1 .684.9  1 :t,81 .4
INTERNAL                           869.4         741.2         898.1         883A2         994.2         827.8
BONDS                             390.7         294.2         488.5         399.7         618.2         455.1
CONTRACTS                         478.7         447.0         409.7         483.6         376.0         372.7
EXTERNAL                            M35.8        721.0         721.0         704.2         690.7         553.6
NETFLOATING DEBT..                5 ;:  '30    , .48        .. 281.7 7*7W.. 899.46 493.               3      . .  63.8
OBS.: Values In Oct.90 prices, converted using Oct. 90 average exchange-rate (US$ 1.00 = CR$ 94.975).
For 1990 rev./exp. values avrg. rate (US$1 .00=CR$ 68.55).- debt Dec. rate (US$ 1.00=CR$ 156.75).
SOURCES: Departamento do Tesouro Naclonal - DTN (1985-89) and budgetary balance for 1990.



- 110 -                                     ANNEX 4A
BRAZIL                                                     Page 8 of 10
MEROPOULTAN TRANSPORT DECENTPAUZATION PROJECT
TABLE 4AA FINANCE OF SAO PAULO MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
REVENUE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(In US$ million of 1990)
CODE  i       DISCRIMINAI              188            9           1987          1988          1989    1    1990
1.0000 TOTAL REVENUES                   2.181?2      2,4.          2,519.2     2Z481.8       2,753.22718
1.1000  CURRENT REVENUFS                1.724.1      2,065.2       1,08.8       1.515.1      2,504.7       2.322.2
1.1100   TAX REVENUE                     727.5        875.3         810.1        659.0         e39.2         976.4
1.1200   CURRENT TRANSFERS               807.0       1,055.3        857.2        738.4        1,084.4      1 ,213.6
1.1210    FPM - QUOTA                      0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0 I         0.0         14.5
1.1220    OTHER TRANSFERS                807.0       1,055.3        857.2         738.4       1,084.4      1.199.1
1.1300   OTHER C REVENUES                189.0     1 8 14.e         139.5         219.7        781.1         1321
1.2000  CAPITAL REVENUES_  437.1                       183.8        712.4        886.8         248.5         39s.8
1.2100   CREDIT REVENUE                  428.3         188.2        694.1         784.8        235.2         195.8
1.2200   OTHER K REVENUES                 10.8         17.4          18.3         82.0          13.3         200.8
9.0000 FRESID.POPULATION (THOUS.)       10,083        10,289       10,520        10.756       10,997        11.244
4.0000 NET REVENUES (1)                 1,734.8      z             1t825.1      1,697.1       2.518.0      2,523.0
5.1000 PERCAPITATAXREV, (2)               72.3          85.1         77.0          61.3         58.1          86.8
5.2000 PER CAPITA NEr REV. (3)           172.4         202.4        173.5         157.8        229.0         2 224.4
5.3000 PER CAPiTA TRANSP.REV(4)           60.2         102.6         81.5          68.5         98.6         107.9
6.10001 rAX REV./NET REVENUE (5)    _    41.9%        42.0%         44.4%        38.8%         25.4%        38.7%
8.2000 TRANSFERS/NETREVENUE(8)           46.5%        50.7%         47.0%        43.4%         43.1%        48.1%
8e.3000 CREDITTOTAL REVENUE (7)          19.7%  1      7.4%         27.6%        31.6%          8.5%         7.2%j
1- 1.0000 - 1.2100 In dollars  -
2- 1.1100 / 3.0000 In dollars
3- 4.0000/ 3.0000 In dollars
4- t.1 200o/ 3.0000 In dollars
5- 1.1100 / 4.0000 In percentage
8-1.1200 / 4.0000 In percentage
7  1.2100/ 1.0000 In percentage



- 111 -                                   ANNEX 4A
Page  9 of 10
3RAZIL
METROPOUTAN TRANSPOITr DECENTRALFlZlTON FF10ECT
TABLE4A.6 SAO PAULO MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
EXPENDrURE PEFFORMANCE INDICATORS
(In US$ millon of 1990)
CODE          DISCRIMINATION            1ga                         9                          1989         1990 1U
2.0000 OTTAL EPENDITURE9                23879         ?.693.        2,779.9      3,374.e       3.188.8       3,538.1
2.1000  CURRENT EXPENDrTURES           1]7893         2,072.8       1,840.3      2,023.9       2,373.1 _     2,387.1
2.1100   GOODS & SERVICES                1,208.1      1,497.3       1,318.8    _  _,428.3      1,674.4       1,931.6
2.1110  .   _SALARIES              ______ ..              5_.7__ ;                 849.9        997.1        1.015. 2
2.1120      1THER F0 8.3                                531.6        878.          778.4        877.3         916.4
2.1200   CURRENTTRANSFERS                 5e3.2         a75_ 2  _     2_ 4.        598.8        698.7         435.5
2?1210    INTFA-GOVERNMENTAL              141.0         162.c         87.8         130.2        338.6         102.8
2.1220    INTER-GOVERNMENTAL                0.0           00           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
2.1230    DEBTSERVICE                     228.6         1385         281.1         289.8         74.3          52.7
2.1231     INTERNAL                       152.0          93.2        219.9          24.          82.1          34.7
2.1232     EXTERNAL                        7.            4.3          41.1          23.1          12           179
2.2000 .CAPiTAL EXPENDITURES              618.8         620.9        939.7        1350.7        813.7        1,171.0
2.2100   INVESTMENTS                      358.7         385.1        818.1       1i100.2        378.8         579.1
2.2200   CAPITALTFRANSFERS                183.8         232.3       3S2.1          219.8        388.1         582.9
2.2210    INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL               21.1 0_0                   28.8           e.0          26 ._       3781
2-2220    INTEFi-GOVEFNMENTAL               0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
2.2230    OEBT AMORTIZATION               181.8         231.6        325.0         213.3        384.8         204.8
2.223t_   __ ______INTEF;NAL               55.1         131.1        177.2         104.1        256.2         191.1
________  _______EXT ERNAL                108.8         100.5        147.8         109.2        128.5          13,6
2.2300    OTHER K EXPENODTiRES             78.1         23.6          89.4          30.7         48.8           9.1
3.0000 RESIO.POP.LATION (THOUS.)         10,083        10,2a8       10.520        10,756       10,997        11,244
4.0000   ,TiREVENUES (     .:.           1,734.8      2.082.6       1,825.1      1 697.1       2,5180.       2,523.0
7.1000  INVESTMENTS PER CAPITA(2)          37.7         35.8          51.8         102.8         34.5          85.1
7.2000 SALARIES PER CAPITA (3)             69.3         93.9          60.           80.4         90.7          90.3
7.3000 DESTPAYMENTPERCAP.(4)               38.8         36.0         85.7           44.9   __    41.7          22.9
8.0000 SELF FINANCING MARGIN (5)      _                  10.0        (15.2_       (326.9        144.9         155.9
9.1000 CURRENT EXPEND.INDEX 8D          102.0%         99.5%        100.8%       119.3%         94.2%         93.8%
9.2000 WAGES EXPEND. INDEX (7)           40.2%  |      48.4%        35.1%         38.3%         39.6%         40.2%
9.3o00    EXP.COMMrTMBEN INDEX (          2.7%         84.1%         67.2%        86.8%         57.8%s        50.4%1
9.4000 INVESTMENT WEIGHT (9)             15.9%         13.6%         19.6%        32.8%         11.9%         27.1%
9.5000 ALUTO-INVEST.CAPACITY (10          91%           2.7%         -2.8%        -2.%38.2%                   1.3
1- Total Revenues lese Credit Revenues (In US$ millions)
2- (2.2100 * 2.2210) / 3.0000 In dollars
3- 2.1110 t /3.0000 In dollars
4. (2.1230 - 2.2230) I 3.0000 In dollars
8. 4.0000 - 2.1000 In dollars
6-2.1000 / 4.0000 In percentage
7- 2.1110/4.0000 In percentage
8- (2.2230 + 2.1230 + 2.1110) / 4.0000 In percentage
9- (2.2210 4 2.2100) /2.0000 In percentage
10- 8.0000 / (2.2210 + 2.2100) In percentage



- 112 -                                  ANNEX 4A
Page 10Pof 10
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN.TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
SAO PAULO STATE GOVERNMENT
TABLE4A.7 EXPENDITURES ON URBAN TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
In US$ millon
EXPENDITURES               1987          1988          1989         1990
METRO          __                      ._-_-_._
current                               48.           59.1_        120.8         100.7
capital                              259.8         481i.6        422.5         648.7
_         .. .   . ".                .    . 
EMTU                                     .   _-
current                                              2.9          15.7          31.2
Sources: Budgetary Balances and Sao Paulo Planing Secretariat.
- * Includes all governmental current transters to FEPASA. It lI
assumed that they correspond to the metropolitan passenger
transportation system that runs on detficit, since the freight
activitles are lucrative.
TABLE4A.8 GOVERNMENTEXPENDITURES ON TRANSPORTATION
1980         1985          1989    AVERAGE80's 1
STATE OF SAO PAULO             ___        _ _
% of total expenditures              9.53%        13.10%        11.79%        12.72%
._...: ,              .  -4 .
MUNICIPALITY OF SAO PAULO             _        ._._.
% of total expenditures             26.21%        19.39%        18.06%       21.09%
.         .               .



- 113 -
ANNEX 4B
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
URBAN TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES AND HOUSEHOLD INCONE
1.    Although the National Household Survey (PNAD) carried out each year by
IBGE provides more recent data on income and other household features (1989),
compatible data on household income are not available. The last data allowing
a consistent analysis of household income and expenses refer to the period
1987/88 and come from the Family Budget Survey (POF).  The latter was
specifically undertaken by the same IBGE to update the household consumption
baskets on the basis of which Brazilian consumer price indexes are calculated.
2.    Table 1 shows some important variables related to household income and
expenses for S. Paulo metropolitan regions (SPMR).  The regressive features of
the urban transportation costs stand out immediately, as the share of
household income spent in urban transportation decreases as income goes up.
It is interesting to note that in Sao Paulo, where most of the bus system is
publicly run, the degree of regressivity is higher than in Rio, where most of
the bus system is private.
3.    It must be pointed out that in the lower income brackets basic expenses
(excluding urban transportation) exceed average household income by 51% in
SPMR. That is, lower income households spend in food, housing, clothing,
health care and education more than their declared monetary earnings. In the
next bracket, the extent in which household income is committed to those basic
consumption items is also substantially high: 91% in SPMR and 78% in SP. If
urban transportation expenses are added to other "basic" expenses, almost all
household income is used up, even in the 2 to S minimum wage (MW) bracket
case.
4.    For 1991 there is no data available on household expenses, therefore it
was necessary to simulate the share of urban transportation expenses -n the
budget of poor households. Table 2 shows the results of a simple exercise
designed to answer those questions. The month of reference is May 1991, and
the minimum wage, exchange rate, and bus fares are those prevailing at that
time. Households are assumed to have the same size by income bracket as shown
in 1987188 POF. Average household income is assumed to keep the same relation
with the bracket limits as in 1987/88. Household expenses in urban
transportation are estimated assuming that all the household urban
transportation travel are combined bus-rail trips, that 2 rides per day are
made in the 22 working days of the month, and besides that a coefficient equal
to .8 is applied to account for the fact that not all household members make
trips.
5.    Urban transportation expenses as a percentage of household income show
an increase between 1987/88 and 1991.  It is a clear result of the recent
faster increase in bus fares in relation to the minimum wage. The data for
SPMR io particularly representative.of that bus fare growth.
6.    The same exercise can be done to evaluate the impact on low-income
household budgets of the proposed rail rates after CBTU decentralization in
SPMR (US$0.25). An additional assumption has to be made: the minimum wage, by
the time decentralization is completed, will reach the US$100.00 level. This
level for the minimum wage has been repeatedly announced by the government as
one of its major social targets. Actually, if one looks at the recent minimum



- 114 -
ANNEX 4B
Page 2 of 3
wage increase, from US$49.43 in October 1987 to US$84.57 in May 1991, this
assumption seems very plausible.
7.    Table 3 shows that, given the above mentioned assumptions , the proposed
rail fares will take up about 22Z in SP in the lowest income bracket, which
means a substantial increase in relation to the situation portrayed by Table
2. For the households earning between 2 and 5 minimum wages, the increase in
comparison to the current situation is smaller. In the case of combined rides
(rail + bus) the increase is only 4 percentage points for the lowest income
bracket households and less than 2 points for the 2 to 5 MW bracket. If one
is interested in the affordability issue, that is the capability of hougeholds
to pay for their daily urban transportation rides, the fact that the share of
income destined to those rides under the proposed rail fares did not rise very
much if compared to today's situation might be considered quite acceptable.



- 115 -
iRAZIL                                                             ANNEX  413
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT                                    age  3       R
Page 3 of 3
tiOU9EHOLD INCOME, TARIFFS ANO AFFORDABILITY
Tablo 413.1
AVERAQE HOUSEHOLD INCOME AND EXPENSES, BY INCOME BRACKETS - 19B7aBEi
iao Paulo Metropolltan Rogion
incomo     Number    Average   Avorage   Average  Average Urban   Basic         Urb.Transp
Brackete      of      Housohold   Total      Basic    Transponation  Expenses   Expenses
(in MW)   Housoholds  Income  Expenoes Expenses 12   Expenses   % of Income % of Income
UVo tO2      167,811      03.77   124.60       ei.14           0.74    160,8%         10.6%
2 to 0      701,907      194.33   252.34     175,07          12.40      0,05%         6.4%
More than 6   3,01t,317    1,073.03  1,014.58   508.37          17.7a     4Z%            *7S
Total      160,15       070.01   030.i4  431 32              1.36    49.5%1           1,%
Sourco: IDGE, Posquisa cio Orcamentos Familiares * 1987/80, RIo ria Janeiro, 1881.
Notas: MW: Minimum wage In October 1987 = CZS 2,540.00 a US$ 49.43.
(1) Average Income and expenses: values In US$.
Total income and expenses: values in USS millions.
3aso perlod: October 1987.
(2) Basic Qxponuos (excluding urUan transportation) = food, housing, clothing, health care
andc education.
Table 4S82
AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD INCOMi AND EXPENSES, BY INCOME BRiACKETS - SIMULATION FOR MAY 1901
Seo Paulo Metropoilltan Region
incoMe                AvrageO                  Urban Transportation Expenses (2)              Combined
Braclkets   Average  Household_                                                               Ride & Basic
In Minimum Household Income (1)         SusRiders                 RailRiders     Combined rideI Expenses
Wages (MW]   Size              (US$)  US)  % of Income                % of Income % of Income  % of Income
, Up to. 2;      2,7   1*08.1Sf   54.31       49.B%           1 i;24    104%          80.1I6.
2 to S           3.6    332.47    70.93       21.3%          14.68       4,4%        26.7%      116.9%
Mor thani C4    *.  4i2_ 1,03.6-8 9   66.3       4.7%           t 17.82    1;6%            5% .       IQ
SOurce: Tablo 48.1
Notes: (1) Estimated assuming that average income keeps tho same relation wlth bracket limits as in 10s7l6a.
(2) Estimatoad assuming 2 rides per day In the 22 working dayS of a month per person, besides a coefficient equal
to .e was appleod to account for that not all household members travel. Combined rldes are bus.rall Connocted
tripe.
Table 48.3
AFFORUABILITY OF PROPOSED RAIL RATES FOR LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS - SIMULATION FOR 1995
Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region
Income                Average                  Urban Transportation Expenses (2)
Brackots   Average  Household
In MlnImum Household Income (1)  _ usRiders (3)  |RalRiders    IC, mbinedride
Wages (MW)   Size         (USS)    (Us$) I% of Income       (UBS)   j% of incomel % of income
.U  t02           2.7    129.00    54.31       42.11%        a3230      .24.%        .0
2 to 6           3.8     393.14    40.76      18.0%          40.66      10.0%1       28.0%
Source: Table 4B.1
Notes: (1) Estimated assuming that average income keeps the same with bracket limits as In 1987/88, and that
the minIMu wage will reach US$ 100.00 by 1893.
(2) See Tablo 48.2.
(3) The estimated bus fare in RJ is US$ 0.23, and In SP is US$ 0.56.



- 116 -
Page 1 of 6
BAZIL
1BTROOLITAN       PORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
1.    The economic evaluation of the project was done for and CBTU-SP as a
whole and by corridor. The evaluation was undertaken for each of the main
CBTU-SP corridors, so as to determ'.ne whether any of the corridors should be
dropped from the project. Some assumptions had to be made in the corridor
analysis insofar as rolling stock is concerned, in order to. artificially
assign it to each corridor, The results are satisfactory and the evaluation
is conservative.
2.    The benefite quantified in the economic evaluotion weres (a) direct
benefits ouch as the reduction of trip cost and the value of time savings
reduction of the road maintenance cost due to lesser buses, reduction of the
operating costs associated with the traffic control of buses; (b) indirect
benefits such as the reduction of congestion due to lesser buses, reduction of
road accidents and the reduct4.on of environmental pollution. The indirect
benefits were not included in the base cases evaluated. They were only used
for sensitivity analysis purposes. The costs quantified in the economic
analysis weres (a) the long-run marginal costs of the CBTU operation which
were estimated using standard costs to reflect less erratic maintenance
policies; and (b) the economic investment costs of the program.
3.    The sensitivity analysis on traffic forecasts, increased investment
costs, deferral of benefits to the fourth year, etc., produced acceptable
results which ranged from 22.2 to 58.2% for CBTU-SP. Next, let us examine in
detail the economic evaluation for each of the systems.
4.    The basic inputs used for this economic evaluation are summarized in
Table 3. The analysis was undertaken by corridor and for the overall network
comparing the situation with and without project. The ERRs for each corridor
and for the overall network are given in Table 1. The sensitivity analysis is
summarized in Table 2. Overall, the S&o Paulo component has an ERR of 46.7%
for the base case. Table 2 shows the results of the sensitivity analysis by
corridor. Cash flows are given in Tables 7 and 7.A,
Global
5.    The ERR for CBTU-SP was estimated at 46.7%.  Cash flows with and without
externalities are given in the following pages. Details of the analysis, such
as the computation of each of the benefits and costs, are described in Report
No.20, which exists in the Project File.



BRAZIL
UETRCPOUJTAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIATION PROJECT
TJALE SA.1 ECONOMIC EVALUATiON
a
CORRIDORS              ERRI_NPV :r  SS Xi0 BIC
Sao Paulo (ALL CORRID        40.7       8.8   2.2
i - No/ So                             17 0.7a   2.6
b - Last. tronco           490  .        2.7   2.1
c -    VLa,anto            48fF         54.    20
11 USEFUL llFE: 20 YEARS; DISCOUNTED RATE 11% I YEAR;
TABLE  .2 SENSfifVITY ANALYSIS
s 1.
Sao Pouto (AUt corridors)                                      
. ~   ~     ~      _____ ____                                      .       ~           _~~
EPtRR{v                     _    40.7          4.       52.3       412s         61B   37.4   4A4   582    41.3  53.           31at         23.        e1.0            2a C
-NPV USSx100.o00)           3_                 270.4    3412       279.0        3400  248.2  308.   371.5  2952  324.41       2085         228A       417.9            MA
-                            _      21           2.1      2.0        2.0          2.91  1.    2.3    102.1  24                               1.9 2_ _A
Usaul ItJ: 20 yeas; Discounted at: 11 1  yas 
Source: C1TU
CD
CA 



118  -                                       Pa~ge  3  of  6
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 5A.3   13AICINPUTS USED FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION - CTU- Thp-
PARAMETER       - SYMBOL   UNITY            -  ~~~~~~~       ~~~GLOBAL"  SANTOS/  LESTE      'LESTEx
_____________________________________   _______   __________          ~~~~JUNDIAI   TRONCO      :  V.%ARlANTE
PRESENT DEMAND                                      De        PASS/DAY            940000         537000         240000         163000
AVERAGE TRIP LENGTH (TRAIN)                          L     -      Km       -18.7 -                15.43 -        23.22          23.22
AVERAGE BUS ROUTE LENGTH                      -     Clo-          Km               30.52             28             34             34
% DEMAND CAPTURED BY TRAIN - YEAR 1                FcI                              0.98           0.98           0.98           0.98
% DEMAND CAPTuR;ED BV TRtAIN - YEAR 2              Pc2             .0.98                           0.98           0.98           0.98
% DEMAND CAPTURED BY TRAIN  YEAR 3                 FG3             -0.981                          0.95           0.98           0.98
% DEMAND CAPTURED0 BY TRAIN - YEAR 4               P04                                 I              I              I              I
% DEMAND CAPTURED SY TRIAIN.- YEAR 5               FOB            I.                                   I             1              1
TRAIN CAPACITY - YEAR I                             01        PASS/DAY   -       1038000         570000         275000         191000
TRAIN CAPACITY . YEAR 2                             02        PASS/DAY           1081000         888000         278000         198000
TRAIN CAPACITY - YEAR 3                             03        PASS/DAY           1280000         724000        320000         218000
TRAIN CAPACITY - YEAR 4                             04        PASS/DAY           1280000         724000         320000        218000
TRAIN CAPACITY - YEAR S                             05    -PASS/DAY              1280000         724000         320000        218000
INVESTMENT.- YEARI I                          -      I        US$ x 109   -        57.44          32.48   __   14.04            10.14
INVESTMENT . YE-AR 2                                12        USS x 1086           92.84          45.18          28.14          19.32
INVESTMENT - YEAR 3                                 13        us$ x 10 8           25.71          11.83           5.46           8.42
INVESTMENT - YEAR 4                                 14         US$__x____ a2.28                    0.88           0.95           0.83
INVESTMENT - YEAR 5                  16        US$_____x___ a0.47                   0.18           0.04           0.25
AVERAGE INCOME OF BUS USERS                        Rmo            SM                        _______                                 5
AVERAGE INCOME OP TRAIN USERS                      Rom            SM                  3.1          3.381          2.95           2.82
RENEWAL FACTOR FOR BUS                              FR                      I         1.1           1.1            1.1            1.1
BUS COMMERCIAL SPEED                                Vo           Km/h.                Is_is_is__
TAIN COMMERCIAL SPEED                        .     VI           Km/h               40_540_541_4
REDUCTION OF WAITING TIME YEAR I               -RI. ano I -        h       -       0.025          0.021 -        0.025          0.027
REDUCTION OF WAITING TIME YEAR 2                 Rte ano 2        N                0.035           0.03          0.035          0.039
BUS OPERATING COST                            - Cop    - US$/Km    -0.71                           0.71 -0.71 -0.71
ROAD MAINTENANCE COST                              COt          US$/km___         0.0004         0.0004         0.0004         0.0004
ROAD OPERATION MANAGEMENT COST                     Cot          US____km_         0.0004         0.00041        0.0004         0.0004
OP + MTCE SALARIES AND WAGES -BASIC COST          CPom        US$ x 108a            19.44          10.7            8.2            3.8
% OP-I-MTCE SALARIES ANO2 WAGES - YEAR I    - Porn I                                         __as__2                74      __     74
% OP +MTCE SALARIES AND WAGES.- YEAR 2            Porn 2          %                   es             _5_7                         72__
% OP+MTCE SALARIES AND) WAGES.- YEAR S            Porn 3                                    ____70__70      ___     70_            70__
% OP + MTCE SALARIES AND WAGES * YEAR 4           Porn 4          %                   70                       __70_7
% OP +MTCE SALARIES AND WAGES.- YEARS6            Porn aS                             70             70             70             70
UNIT COST (OF+ MTCE) STAFF                    -Cup.om   - USS/pass                0.0857         0.0621         0.0702         0.0702
PRESENT CAR x Km                              - C.Kmn      C.Kmn x 1000  -    4495.1688        2031.201       1328.805        1135.26
CORRECTION FACTOR CAR x Km - YEAR I               Fokm I           -              1.0735         1.0331         1.0976         1.1178
CORRECTION FACTOR CAR xKm -YEAR 2                 Fokm 2                           1.081         1.0487         1.0970         1.1176
CORRECTION FACTOR CAR xc Km - YEAR 3              Fokm 3           ..1.3442                      1.3957         1.3751         1.2159
CORRIECTION FACTOR CAR XKmr- YEAR 4               Fckm 4           *1.3442                       1.3957         1.3751         1.2159
CO~RRECTION FACTOR CAR x Km-YVEARS            -  F0km el-                         1.3442 _        .395?         1.3751         1.2159
UNIT COST FOR ELETRICAL ENERGY    -                Cuss        US$/C.kmn          0.1898 _0.21                    0.14           0.14
SPARES AND MATERIALS BASIC COST                    Cme        US$ x 108a              15           6.57           4.2e           4.17
CORRECTION FACTOR FOR COST OF
MATERIALS WITH PROJECT                             Mop          ____1.1 _1.1                                       1.1            1.1
CO~RRECTION FACTOR FOR COST OF_____
MATERIALS WITHOUT PROJECT                     - Map    -           .       -1.2                     1.2            1.2            1.2
% OF OYHER COSTS - YEAR I                          Poe I      ______                 11.8          1 1.5          11.5           11.5
% OF OTHER COSTS - YEARI 2                        P0c02      _______11.5                           1 1.5          11.8           11.5
% OF OTHER COSTS - YEAR 3                         POC3            %12.5                              1 3            12             12
% CF OTHER COSTS - YEAR 4                         Poc 4           %13.8                              1 4            13             13
PR4ESENT % OF (OF+MTCE) STAFF COSTS               Pomat      _______                3.84           88.4           74.7           74.7
% OF OTHER COSTS WITHOUT PROJECT              - OCep   -                  -I11.5                   11.5 -1 1.5                   I 11.8
RESID UAL VALUE OF INVESTMENT                       Vri                                a              a              5              a
USEFUL DAYS/YEAR                                    Nd           D&yo                300 -          300 -300 -,300
MINIMAUM WAGE WITHOUT TAXES                         Sm           US$                  es~            B8             es8  -         8
MINIMUM W-AGE WITH TAXES                           yaM           US$                 ISO5           IS10O          150 -150
1BUS CAPACITY                                       CV         PASS/BUS               7855757
NUMEpra OF WORKiNG HOURS/MONTH                     HM            Hours               180            1 1180ISO                     180



ORAZIL
MEtROPOLITAt TRANSIOCT  ECENTRAIUZATION PFIOJECT
TABLEBAA ECONOUIC EVAUWATION - Ek ATY ANAVBIS
STU . SP COI)RDORS
UA~#'   sA~1h~        w             ,...                                                                  .. 
CORRIDORS                                                  w _                               '  
A  SANTCOg JUNDOAM
* ERFt                        81      4                   43.1    82.5  43.3    47.1    38.8            43.0       64.5           33.7            3.4             S8              25.
NPV (US x *I               179.7    12.4   E197.        184.?   194.7    147.4   177.    212.0        172.2      157.1         1280.            137.8          232,5 I           113
Bic                           2.6      2.3      3.1        2.       3.1      2.0     2.8      3.8        2.6        2.            1E                2.3       3-    1.   1.               .
8- LESTE VARIANE_
-ERR (%)                     468      42.9    55.1        41.3    87.4      38.6    so5    85.7         41.8       88.0          302              22.2            74              15
- NPVt4USs t1000.)0         54A8     49.2    80.5        47.8    81.9      42.1    a8       87.6       51.7       55.0           352              32.n 774                       23.5
- we                 _1                         2.3        12.      2.3      1.       21      2.7        1.         2.2            1.                              2       ,       1.4
C.LESTETRONCO                               I -
*ERRt4l                      42i     44.3    582          44.3J   88.       39.3    490    83.8         43.4 |     M8.           31.D             24.1           71._             2_.3
tNpv (US$ .x 1.00.000        82.7     74.4    91.1        74.4      1.011 6 .1        27    9.4         7a.7   | 8|              64.2             82'            115.91 
*SC.                          2.I    1.0    2. .           1        2.3      1.71     2        E1 2      2.0        2.2           1.8               1.7           2.5              4A
Uh  Life: 20 Yea- Oieculld PA*: 11%I I Yea
oc.
SI)



TABLE 11A.1 ECONOMIC VAJU.ATION OF TN$ SiU-SF WITH AND wffYv4UT PROJECT
(AACORAWOM
t  CII2STUEUEFtS        h
[ago~ ~ F   W)~~7I7
155030            1      450      23.5        3712       11.54          0.02         0.02      25.O5  ___.05,           0470       4.1 5      2.0.02"Y 574            45,474        10.2
5.     .52              1.57      25.1        5.21       e5.72          0.02         0.01      S3."0  ___0.1           4010        ..15        142         52.44      53.3         4.5
551351                  507       2*2.4       2562       40.50          0.02         0.02      503 .     _ 4.51         4.15       4.15       3.50           114      40.4740.
5.11.71                 5.31      25.20       3.52       50.43          0.03         0.0       55.55  O___ 4.52                    4.15       3.4.2         2.2O1.54                54.02
511. 7151                         *.2          5          0.43          0.03         0.01      5555.Is     4.02         4.15       4.1e       3.2           0.47      151           53.3
5.31.72                 5.31      25.20       3.42       00.43          0.02         0,03      55.50   __ 4.53  ______             4.15       2.42                    15.55         54.7
542    1 71            5~ ~~~~~~31  21.20    2 22        50.43         0.02          0.03      S5O5."   _ 4.23          4 14       4.15       3-42   ___ _            IS."5        54.27
5.41   1.21            5~~.31    25.20       12          50.43         0.031         0.03      55.45*a      .341                               .    _____              55           4
541             741                      2520        15          004a.300                               55__ 4.51               4.15       4.15       342  ______             15.55        54.7
00 .421              1.71             5.311     35.20       3.52       50.43          0.03          0.03      Oa."5__ 4.53             4 IS       4.15       3A2  ____ _             10.55        54.37
12     4141          2.71             5.31      25.20       3542       50.43          0.03          0.03      5555__ 4.53              4.15      4.25        3-42  ______            5             4.42
05411          1.71            5.31      25.20       3.52        50.43         0.03          0.03      55.50 S  _  4.53         4.15       4.10       3.42  ______            15.55        S4."
05411          1.21            5.31      25.20       M.43        50.43         0.30.03                 #5.53       4.51         4 15       4.15       3.43   _____             55           4
* 41  1.71  6.31  *5.20       1.52       00.41          0.02         ~~~~~     ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~0.03  55.55  4.53  ______.1       3.4*   _____             55            44.37
541    2.71            6.31      25.20~~&S   3.50        50.43         0.10.1                  555         45     ____             42          43_____                 54          5.7         I
541    1.71            ~~~~~    ~~0.31  2520  3.52       50.42         0.03          .01...j!              4.43         4.10        .1        S.42  _______           1.45         54.2
541    1.7$            5.31~~~~~cS  25.20    32.         50.4          0.0           0.01      45.52       453          4.25       4.15       S42                      Man___  5.5542 
O. 4',               2,1.31                     24.20       1.52.      5.43           0.0%          0.01       5          4.53  _______          4.15.       3.2_____                55            43
* 41           1.15.1                    3.22        3.52       50.43          0.03          0.03       55         4.531  4_____0          4.15       3.43   ____             15.55        54.?
'3*  541       1.71            5.31      30~~~ ~~~~             ~~~~~.20  3.5 O5.4  0.0)-    001       55I         45321 _______           4.10       3.42        .12.01       3.57        55.35,
EXTESINALSMS INCLUDED
0d
eaR
U',D



aL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aA .                                                                                                     -k
s .. -- . ............ - .... ,,,, i~~~ars    ~r
i  a.w  0.50        0.50   -  8.8?      2.18       11.88        0.01        0.01      21A8       .1.50(-   0.8         420                   67A4      ft"       ~ 1
2            05.           a.m am                    Ia       am         15.2         D1          2..1  &.             021         O.74        1       C.10  0.10  881  S34              4
3  0.50         am             0.50~~~~~~ac  245    3A2       40.5         OA)2m                 678        483         3.15       4.1a      2.30        2&71       D4
:jf __ ___eam                        n am                       m       30.48         am oam n               oa.2       83.1                 4.18      3.42         _         1__4       am
0.50         013005                   am ~    3m2          5.43 1         A3m        amO      8.MM        4A3         3.131    4.18       3A42         0.471    10.18        W-.
*.5          am'            0          n _ na    3m        00.43         Om          O3       Wi1        483    3t15            4.1a      3A42                   Mee        WAs
z.                         am             a        mm          2m        8043.        cm0         O.5       8351       4893. -      .1       4.18      3.42                   s            A
3            0.50          am        q     m    :vm~          3m         5Q.a3 aG G06                0      83.51      4e3a6                 4.18      3A4 2nWA
;.50          03            0ea0                 3mM5 o043 umn                                8 3. 6 a1_  483         3.15      4.18      3.2S
10           0.5G          GAD e  -n               2m)         : 3 l     8043          am         0.03      83.1       4.3         3.15      4.18       32 
i.5O ea                     aM        MM.        38        8.4..0 nan 0.5                     851         483         3.15      4.18      3.421 -                            WAS
m05                 Cm             0.00 am    m)3I3 go4                         am0         am       83.1       4.83        3.15       4.18      3.42                                A
'1O m  I            amwa 0.5                 MM2        am8       80.3          am.         &035    8Ka8I    4833.3                    4.18      3A2                    WDMD
14LOD5              oam            Cmn      3020        3m2       8.43          amD         am       83.51                   ls         .8       3A                     5S          T3
am           am             am m.                3m        80.3          am     .     o0      83.51      4,3         3.18       4.18      3.42        o5 I
am    Cm             0.50      32)         .3        04           Cm3         am0      8am         483         3.18E     4.10      3.42                                A
17    Cm            Cm0            0.50      320"       3.e2      80.43         am          Oam      03.81.     483         3.13      4.18       3.42                   5          93
Om.           C             C 00        2        3m        80.43         am3         amO      83.81      .4.8         3.15      4.18      3.42 53                            1
am            am           .1 em                            a            Q0.5        am       83.5        4A3                   4         342                               WA3
amamam                         mm         3         80A.4        0a          OAR       8.1        4.83        3.15        .1       3A2                    SATt387    198
.x~~~~~~I
o§t



- 122 -
ANNEX 5B
Page 1 of 12
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Summary of Conclusions Drawn From Proiections
General
1.    The proposed project finances the investment required by CBTU-SP to meet
the operational and financial targets set in Annex 2.
Sao Paulo (CBTU-SP)
2.    The combination of tariff increases, increased passengers and cost
reductions are projected to decrease the operating subsidies from US$ 70.3
million in 1990 (US$ .27 per paying passenger) to US$ 9 million in 1996
(US$.03 per paying passenger). The working costs are forecasted to decrease
from 4.3 times revenues to 1.1 times revenues. Additional ridership and
increased fares after 1996 could continue the performance improvement.
._of-Proiect A sumDtio
3.    The accompanying financial projections of CBTU-SP are based on the
following assumptions:
Decentralization Assumptions
4.    The urban rail transport system of Sao Paulo (CBTU-SP) will be
transferred to the state government free of debt and prior liabilities. All
subsidies received for operating costs and capital additions (including the
World Bank project) will be the responsibility of the federal government until
the decentralization is completed. The division of these subsidies subsequent
to decentralization among government levels will be negotiated at a future
date, except for future debt service requirements existing at the time of
decentralization which will remain a federal obligation until this debt is
cancelled.
5.    The assets transferred constitute the rail systems of the two cities
operated by CBTU.
Financial Assumptions-Income Statements
6.    The projections are based on the 1990 actual results projected to the
year 2001 in accordance with the assumptions listed below. Results for 1990
for both systems were converted into dollars at the average exchange rate for
1990 of CR$ 68.55 per US$ 1.00. The Project is assumed to begin during 1992
and continue until 1996.
Farebox Revenues and Other Revenues
7.     The passenger generated revenues were projected by assuming increases
on transported passengers, reduction of fare evasion and tariff increases,
that by the time the project is completed in 1996, will have reached 90% of
the modal (most common) bus fares in both cities. These projections (Table 6)
conservatively assume that the number of paying passengers and tariffs will
not increase after 1996. Other revenues for rents and other services are



- 123 -
ANNEX 5B
Page 2 of 12
projected from historical amounts, and because they are not material to
results, are subtracted from other expenses in the income statement
projections.
Operating Subsidy
8.     The operating subsidy is the difference between farebox revenues and
working costs and consequently, does not provide for capital additions or debt
service.
Salaries and Wages
9.     Salaries and wages were projected based on the 1990 wage-bill and
adjusted for personnel reductions that began in May 1990, continues in 1991 as
this report issues (July 1991) and is expected to continue though 1995, when
CBTU forecasts an increase in maintenance personnel needed as ridership
increases. Details of forecasted salaries and wages are attached in Table
6.A.
Electricity
10.   Electricity costs were projected according to the consumption of car x
Km/month observed in 1989, the projected increases of the car x Km/month and
electricity rates of March 1991. These projections are presented in Table
5.A.
Spares and Materials for Maintenance
11.   Spares and materials expenses for maintenance were projected based on
89/90 values, increased by 10% for CBTU-SP, management's estimates of the
1989/90 under maintenance. Projections beyond 1991 were based on the
forecasted increases of car x Km/month and are presented in Table 6.B
Other Working Costs
12.    The other working costs were projected as percentages of the total
working expenses based on 89/90 values. For Rio it was assumed that they will
decrease slightly, but in Sao Paulo a small growth is expected, since many of
the services there are contracted with outside firms. These projections are
presented in Tables 5.
Depreciation
13.   The depreciation not based on undervalued CBTU carrying costs for its
substantially depreciated fixed assets, but is an estimate of depreciation
based on current replacement values as shown in this Annex 8-15 and 16.
Interest
14. Since the federal government assumes all existing debt burden before and
after decentralization, the projections do not include any provision for
interest. For comparison purposes, the 1990 income statements exclude inter-
est with a corresponding reduction in the operating subsidy.
Other Costs. Net
15. Other costs include provisions for accident or labor claims incurred
after decentralization and other various minor costs, net of miscellaneous
revenues.



- 124 -
ANNEX 5B
Page 3 of 12
Financial Assumptions-Statements of Sources and Application of Futnds
16.   The source and application of funds consolidates the funds produced by
the independent systems with additional funds required to maintain the
transport system.
Other Sources
17.   The other sources consist of the proceeds from the World Bank project
loan and capital subsidies for:
a.    Federal government counterpart funds for the project.
b.    Capital addition requirements not financed by the World Bank
c.    Debt service for existing loans (interest and capital)
d.    Debt service for the World Bank loan (interest and capital)
Investments
18.   The investments for 1992-1996 are the estimate of the capital addition
requirements not financed by the project of the two systems during the project
implementation period. For the years 1997-2001 these amounts decrease to an
estimate of capital additions required to maintain the renovated systems.
Interest and Amortization
19.   These amounts are based on management supplied information of debt
service to maturity of existing loans and the proposed World Bank loan.



ANNEX 5B
125                                    Ta-g-e'7-o of  12
BRAZIL
METROPOUTAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 5B.1 OBTU INOOME STATEMENTS
Cruzelros ithousandal
1986       1980        1987       l198          1989        1990         m  S
_             .i                                                                       -  
REVENUSS
Passenger               -          125,001     271,009   1,368,488    9,685,40       98,124   3,394,819     58549
Soncee                      _                   20,197      72,884      432.a09       3,011      67.851         24
Subventions            _92,773   2,761,231  12,848,123    97.489,882   1,714,081  36.476,595                28,31
Other                                               _       58,322      559,452     244,013    790,308         34S
Total Operating Revenues          1 ,111,844   3,042,489  14,145,776   108389                40.728,571     34,240
EXPENSES                                    _________
Up-Keep & Malntenanoe      -      311,845       8,748   3.491,462    33,739,481    500,824  10,421.004      8,949
Administrative             _      288,092     628,513   3,374,418    30,485,099    514,773   9,448,498      8,258
Operations                        273,905     740,812   2,725.017    24.916,698    431,882   9.983,88      10,203
Total Working Expenses       -     853,642   2.145,873   9,590,897    89,121,258   1,453,479  29,481,787    25,410
DepreclatIon                _      182.853    519,552   1,747.814    13,199,443     131,416   2.594.774      3.127
Other Operating Expenses             2,161       4,591    803.848     8,034.694     495.450   4.583.431      2.492
Total Operating Expenses    _    1,038,456   2,670.01t  12.142.357   108.355.393   2,080,345  38,829.992    31,029
WORIING INCOME                                         7 :.   898,568  4,554.s7u   1 *t028. 33 ; ;0B,3 H A;,27ii;8   .i8
OP~~RATIN& IN~~~OME.~~OS o::~  i       . :372.i23   2.0341 ,a   {20 00 .   (20.53- .-A,098.579 < .3.211.
Non-oeratln Results               _       
Non-operating Income        _      14.322     111,225    144,232     2,075.574      25,883     78,188          85
Non-operatIng expenses   _         (31,123    (125,058    (54.871    (2.385,255    (1 6,789    (19,384        (57
Net Interest                      f 1 09.745    (488,222  (1.81t0,261   (11t .333,444    (458,701  (11.1922,761  (10,039
P'ROF./(LOSS3boU.ire.m.i~,V~     ~       :e.    (107 (S2 .  :.82F719 - . ~(11t,8312, ..  1.--.t8,i23  -.,737,380  ..(6,820
NET INFLATIONARY EFFECTS            (20 ,720    (108,814 (11.082.449    (5,155,598   180 504 (22,106,508     (19,102
_with    . _alIz~ _on               7~ B        70..   . ....
OperatIng-Ratio                                                   __
-with normalization                  93.4        87.8       88.8         100.2       1010         89.9       90.8
Normallz. as %6 of OpeorRev.          88.4        90.4       89.4          90.1        83.2        89.8       82.71



ANNEX 5B
- 126.                             Page 5 of 12
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 55.2 COTU-SP: INCOME STATEMENTS ACTUAL 1990 AND PROJECTED 1991 -2001
(millions of us dollars)
_______________________ 1990  1991  19921 19983 199-4 1995  1996  19971 199   199o  200   2001
Passengrs transported L0OO     888   940 1,01 5 1,040 1,197 1,280 1,260 1,280 1,260 1,260 1,260 1,280
Evasion %                       11%    6%    5%    4%   8%    2%    2%    2%    2%    2%    2%    2%
Transfer rate                   12%   12%   12%   12%  12%   12%   12%   12%   12%   12%   12%   12%
~~QO~    707   771   842   874 1,017 1,084 1,084. 1.084 1,084 1,084 1,084 1,084
$.1$14 $.0 $0.25 *0.80 $0.88 $0.83 $0.88 $0.83 $0.88 $0.88$08
Income:
Passonger             ~~~$23.3 $82.4 $50.5 $85.5 $91.8 $107.8 $107.8 $107.8 $107.8 $107.8 $107.8 $107.8
Other                            0.5   0.7   1.8   2.0  2.8   3.2   8.2-  8.2   8.2   3.2   3.2   8.21
Opertin subidy70.8  82.2 44.4 28.2 18,3  0.0  0.01  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
94.1  95.8  98.2  95.7 109.7 110.5 110.5 110.5 110.5 110.5 110.6 110.51
Costs and expenses:I
Worklng costs-
SalarIes and wages            85.8  55.8  54.1  52.5  58.1  58.1  88.1  56.1  58.1  58.1  58.1  58.1
Etectriloly                     7.0  10.2  11.0  11.1  18.8  18.8  18.8  18.8  18.8  18.8  13.8  18.8
Spares and materials           18.9  18.8  20.0  20.1  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0
Other. net                     1 1.8  11.0  11.1  12.0  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8
Operating expenses. not        100.7. 95.3  96.21 95.7 109.7 109a.71 109.7 109.7 109.7 109.7 109.7 109.7
Depreciation                    9.7  14.7 22.8383.7 51.1 51.151.1   81.1  51.1  51.1  51.1  51.1
Other, net                    28.3   3.0   3.0   3.0  8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   3.0   3.0   8.0
88.1  17.7  25.8  88.7  54.1  54.1  64.1  54.1  54.1  54.1  54.1  54.1
Total costs                    188.8i 118,0. 121.5 132.4 183.8 183.8j 1883.8 183.8 183.8 188,8 183.8 188.8
Federal government expenses:
Interest and amortization     $58.0. $58.8 $54.0 $49.9 $41.8 $35.4 $84.9 $41.8 $21.7 $18.8 $17.7 $18.8
Ratios:
WokngRatio~
-with operating subsidy       1.07  1.00  1.00  1.00  1.00  C.99  0.99  0.99  0.99  0.99  0.99  0.99
Operating Ratlo
-with operatlna subsIdy        1.48  1.19  1.28  1.88  1.49  1.48  1.48  1.48  1.48  1.48  1.48  1.48
~~~ ~~~~~A4 ~~~~~~~~~  -            -           T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 -     ----- ---
OperatingsubIdy%of Income!   75%   85%   48%   29%1 14%1  8%    8%    8%    8%    8%1  8%    8%
Salaries %of working coals      85%   88%   56%   55%1 51%1 51%1 51%   51%_51%1 51%1 51%1 51%



ANNEX 5B
127 -                                      Pa g  6 of 12
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 6B.8 CBTU-SP:SOURCEG AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS AND SUMMARY OF SUBSIDIES 1991-2001
(MILLIONS OF US DOLLARS)                          _
SOURCES                         1991  1992  1993  1994 1996  1896  1997  1998  199S  200   2001
From oEeratloneon_
Lose for the year            ($17.7 ($25.3 ($36.7 ($54.1 ($53.3 ($53.3 ($53  (38 ($83.8 ($53.3 153.3
Add, depreclatlon              14.7  22.3  33.7  51.1  51.1  51.1  61.1  51.1  61.1  81.1  61.1
Non-oash provislons             3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0  2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2
Total from operatlons           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Other sources:
Proceeds from World Bank loan        33.9  58.4  18,4  2.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Caital subsidies for-
Project counterpart funds           37.1  59.8  39.6  6.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Other capital Inveatment      15.0   0.0   0.0  19.8  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0
Debt seovloo existing loans   5e.8  83.3  48.3  34.4  27.8  28.1  21.5   2.2   0.0   0.0   0.0
Debt service World Bank        0.0   0.7   3.8   7,2  8.5   8.8  20.1  19.5  1.86  17.7  10.8
. _____________________    71,8  91.1 109.7 101.0  69.7  61.9  e8.6  48.7  45.8  44.7  43.8
APPLICATIONS                                                                                __
Investments: 
World Bank project             0.0  71.1 118.2  58.0  8.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Other                         15.0   0.0   0.01 19.8  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0
15.0  71.1 118.2  77.8  35.8  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0
Interest & amortization:
World Bank project             0.0   0.7   3.0   7.2  8.5   8.8  20.1  19.5  18.6  17.7  18.8
ExIsting loans                56.8  53.3  48.3  34.4  27.8  26.1  21.5   2.2   0.0   0.0   0.0
56.8  54.0  49.9  41.8  38.4  34.9  41.8  21.7  18.8  17.7  1 6.8
Net change for the year        $0.0  $0.0  $0.0  $0.0  $0.0  $0.0  $0.0  $0.0  $0.0  $0.0  $0.0
SUBSIDY SUMMARY
ia  ' .''j.'a
CapItal subsidy:                      _     _I___
Investments                    15.0  71.1 118.21 77.8  35.8  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0
Debt service World Bank         0.01  0.7   3.61  7.2  8.5   8.8  20.1  1 9.5  15.8, 17.7  186.8
Debt servIce existing loans   65.8  53.3  46.3  34.4  27.8  28.1  21.8   2.2   0.0   0.0   0.0
71.8 125.1 168.1 119.4  71.9  81.9 e8.8  48.7  45.8  44.7  43.8
$133.9 $169.5 $198.3 $134.7 $71.9 $81.9 $88.6 $48.7 $45.8 $44.7 $43.8
_________________________  .$0.58 $0.87 $0.75 S0.44 



ANNEX 5B
-128 -                                            Page 7 of  12
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 1584 CBTU.SP: BALANC' SHEETS
(millions of US dollars)
1991    1n9s   ina:   19       lnnE1993   1994   19  16    1997    198    189    20001   2001i
=~~~  =-_----                                                                                          - -  
ASSETS
Current assets                _                          9       9           6        _                  9 0   _9         9       a
Property plant And equipment:                 - __
Costandrevaluatlon                            818   0569  1,13   1,231    1,27. 1,804   1.021   1           1,375   1,402   1,429
Accumulated deprcilatIon         _.4,  _8    (109    (1S0   (211   (202  (3  (3 93E4   (415   (We9                              i
__________________________  _  -11   1,046   1,071   1,09   1,032    40  964      a9g    935    a11
________-______ __  $472   6921   1 1,081 S1,0! 5  $1,041  61,017   6893   6969   6948   8921
LALITIES AND POUITY
Current liabilitles                             60      63      So    S6    612        s15     618     621     624    627    S27
Equlty:
Capital                                       472    472    472    472    472    472          472    472      472    472    472
Additlor'alcontribution                                71    189    297    303    330    357    384            411    438    485
Revaluation _R_rve    _         _                             449    449    449    449        449     449    449.   449    449
472    643   1,110   1,19a   1,223  1Jd_ 1,277   1,304   1,331   1,365   1,385
Accumulated coeticlt             __                    _ 
Beglnnlng of year              _0                      0  ° 5          2      19   J17       (224    (278        (333 .47    (441
Results of current year              -         e      (25)    (7.   (J4       (54              4      (c      (       (4      (54
Balance end of year                 - _           O62 _             (1 l    (170    (a24    (278   (333    (397    (44    (485
834    581   1.4              103      .29      99      972     048    918l   891
_       _   _        B34    o t B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__1,04a3  1,072   1,053   1,02S    rRI  S2 a5  1r3 tg
6941   6521   1,054  S1,0e81  51,0S  $1,041  61,017   s9a3   s9s9   0945  S618
ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION
_alance beginning of year                               S0    671   1819    s297   8303   6330    _357   8384   6411   8439
Recelved World Bank loan                               34      89      18       2       0 _0            0        0       0      0
__ecelved capital subsidy                              el_ 91    110    101    70      92      69      49       48     48      44
Paid interest and amortization           _41   (_0   _42 . 38                          (35    42       (22     (pis    (1.     (17.Q
_____ ________________        __                       7 =     t 1    11s  78  38      27      27      27      27      27      27
!=la_Snce end of year                                     1330   6357   $384                                    411   6439   $495



ANNEX 5B
129 -                                       a           12
BRAZIL
METROPOLIrAN TRAN9POFrT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 58.5  PROJECTION OF THE OTHER EXPENSES
AS PERCENTAGES OF THE TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES
YEAR             SAO PAULO
1982                      1 1.5%
1983                      12.53%
1994                      12.5%
1995                      12.5%
1998                      12.5%
1997                      12.5%
1898                      12.5%
1999                      12.5%
_2000                       12.5%
2001     J                12.5%
088.: The 1991 ratio corresponds to the monthly
average ratio observed In 1989.
TABLE 58.5A    PROJECTION OF ELECTRICrTY COSTS
LSq ALO
YEAR_____    ::ARK   flnA SO DAYC 
. .
1991                 4,495,158                  940                0.19               10.2
199                  4,825,671                 1.088               0.19               11.0
199w                 4,659,839 I1,081                              0.19               11.1
1994                 6,02472                   1,250               0.19
1995                 6,042,472                 1,260               0.19               13.8
1996                 8,042,472                 1,250               0.19               13.8
1997     -6,042,472                            1,250               0.19               13.8
1998                 6,042,42                  1.'260              0.19               13.5
1999                 6,042,472.                1,260               0.19               13.8
2000                 6,042,472                 1,260               0.19               13.8
2001                26,042,472                 1,260               0.19               13.8
Average consumption by car x Km/month observed In 1989 with
electrIcty rate of 1991.



130 -                               ANNEX 5B
Page 9 of 12
ERAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE  0.65  CEBTU-8P: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TARGETS
--     -  .1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1899    1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
GA  AUO__ __                                                                        _ ___.
I. Working ratlo                 2.88    1.86    1.42    1.18    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
2. Salarlos and wacos as %6 of  I     
worklng costs                                         51%    51%    51%    51%    51%    51%    51%    51%
.n ot .                      _    8  ___        55% 
3. Average train tare (In 1991  $0.14   $0.20   $0.25   $0.30   $0.33   $0.33  $0.33   $0.33   $0.33   $0.33   $0.33
constant US$)_.._.                        .. _        _.__
4. Paying gassengara gar     _        _n_                     __       _         _
_tayfOQ__771  842                              874   1.0     ,087            1.084  4,04   1        1,084   1,084



- 131 _
ANNEX 5B
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTPALIZATION PROJEC                                                  Page          of  12
TABLES 6.6    PASSENGER GENERATED REVENUE ESTIMATES
PiAUOP
.  : ,l'f9N .;,,;ASlON 2t 4RA N'PAYIN-. I                                  ffr... IT.If ;       :      :     O-: THEFL, 
~            Y.'A   )      EAR                                                                                                  IV =   -
1991              940          282.0           12%              6%          231.24        0.14      32.4            2.0%        0._e
1992             t,01.         304.5           12%               6%         262.74        0.20       50.8           2.5%        1.23
1603             1,040         312.0           12%               4%         262.08        0.25       83.5           3.0%        '11.07
1994           -L1.19          356.1           12%             -3%          305.24-       0.30      91.6.           3.0%        2.75
19957   .     2          ... 378.0             12%s              2%         325.08        033       107.3           3.0%        3.22
1s99             I 260         378.0           12%               2%         325.08        0.33     107.3            3.0%        3.22
1997             1 260         378.0           12%               2%         323.06        0.3   _  107.3         , 3.0%         3.22
1os8             1 260         378.0           12%              2%          32,8          J.33.    107.3.           3.0%        3.22
1999             120           370.0           12%               2%         32.8          0.33      107.3           3.0%        3,22
2000             1,260          37a.0          12%               2%         325.08        0.33      107.3           3.0%        3.22
2001             1.,260         378.0          12%               2%         325.0. 0.33             107.3           3.0%        3.22
NOTE:
Ytansported pasosngers por year was calculated by multplying estimated passengers per day by 300.
TABLE 58.OA PROJECTION OF SALARY AND WAGES EXPENSES
|9AO PAULO
ADMINISTRATIVE              OPERATINGI   TOTAL COST
YEAR                     I_._.__      MAINTENANCE
-    .   8HAiIE(1)   .    COST           COSTS (2)      US$ million
1991            35.%             19.5          38.0            88.8
1692            33.0%            18.1          36S0             64.1
1993            30.0%            10.5          36.0             62.6
1994            30.0%            10.5          396.             58.1
1996            30.0%            19.65         39.8             56.1
1los            30.0%            16.6          39.6             68.1
1967            30.0%            15.5          3.560.1
1e98            30.0%            16.5          39.6            56.1
i 1999  1l_     30.0%            156.          36.6             88.1
--2000   o l     l' 30.0%        16.535
1 2001   :       llL:     , s 30.0%  18.5      39.8             50.1
(1) Refers to the share of total wage-bill for 1991, which was estimated
as 08% of the 1990 wage-bill due to labour reductions made at the end
of that year.
respectively and remain constant Lintil 2001.
TABLE 6B0.S     PROJECTION OF SPARES AND MATERIALS EXPENSES
FSAO PAULO
CAR XKm/month  qROWTH OF         TOTAL
YEAR_L_  __             |CAR X K/monI   COST
1'9i61       4.495,561          1.000          18.6
9i92         4.825,071          1.074          20.0
1 93         48659,339          1.001          20.1
16t4         5,042,472          1.344          25.0
1995         0,042,472 I        1.344. 20.0
iss    G_ 6042472               1.344          25.0
166997    _ _  042.472.         1.34411        25.0
1999          0,042,472         1.344           28.0
1996         6042472            i.s44          25.0
| 20010 ||    s042,472          1.344          25.0
2001         5,042,472          1.344          25.0
NOTE:
The total expenses with this Item In 196o was the base for projectons,
A 20% and 10% Increase was established for CSTU-RJ and CDTU-SP respect-
hwly becAuse 1S90 expenses were Insufficient. The growth of car per
Kim/month was used for the projections.



ANNEX 5B
- 132 -                           Page 11 of 12
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TABLE 5B.7 DEPRECIATION COST ESTIMATES
SAO PAULO___________
F I X E D AS S E T S            TOTAL COST    USEFUL LIFE  ANNUAL DEPREC.
(US$ THOUSAND    (YEARS)    COST (US$10 "3)
A.Statois'*B utdf,lg               .*sE;:               w-       . ..  
statlons (60)                                    103.000           50             2,060
buildings (50)                                     3,175           50                64
subtotal                         106,175                          2.124
Infra/superstructure (432/198 Km)                165,240           30             5,508
walls (276 Kmn)                                   55,200           50             1,104
brldges,tunnel & passageways(9,000 m)            22.430            s0               449
subtotal                         242,870                          7,061
carbon steel electric trains (39)                136,500           30             4,550
Inox steel electric traln_ (I146)                772,000           40            19 3600
.. Rol,I.l.S.o.1...
subtotal                         908.500                         23.850
0.  _ok h p     _:                              .                               .__ _ _
buildings                                        20_200            so               404
equipment                               .          8,000  __20__                    400
subtotal                          28,200                            804
Substations & distributiorn network              69,885            40             1,747
Aerial network                                    44,600           25             1,784
subtotal                         114,485                          3,531
F*:T¢ioihriurnioation   .:  :* ::--::-..... .....   ._........._.....____,_. 
transmission (202 Km)                             59,994           20             3,000
radio stations (580)                         .    5,620            10               562
telephone extensions (3,120)                       4,212           23               183
station sound systems (58)                          464            10                46
train sound systems (65)                           1,300           10               130
subtotal                          71,590            .             3,921
G- Signaling                                      190,100           20             9,505
TOTAL                           1,681,920      _                  50,7951



- 133 -
ANNEX 5B
BRAZIL                            Page 12 of 12
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRAlIZATION PROJECT
TABLE58.11 sNsmvrrvANALYSIS- 199
ALTERATIVE                                                                       N   .  .S  . RO,
MA            DAY IO~~~~~~~ DAY11O-fl'A   MIWN USI.INU$IWNEPN ES  ASE
'3ASE CASE                  1,260      1,04.        0.0       109.7       107.3       0.0           0.34      0.33
BASE CASE, WMI1 TRAIN  .         .    ..    .    .    .            ._.
t1,260    1,084       25.5       1 109.7      81.3       23.2          0.34.     0.25
FARE OF ONLY US$ 0.25  .                    .          .           ,                        ..          .
FARE OF US$ 0.25            __        __ _ ___                              _                             ___
AND PASSENGER               1,260      1,033       29.3       109.7        77.5       26.7          0.35      0.25
EVASION/FRANSF. OF 18% .I .   __                  .    . _     _                                        .
FARE OF US$ 0.35 AND    .           .                  .   ._ 
NO PASSENGER EVASION               1,,109          (9.7J __  109.7        118.4      (8Oe           0.33      0.35
(ONLY 129 TRANSF.)         __
BASE CASE             __ .    _    = =.                                                    __.
WITH WORIONO EXPENSE' __       ..084               20.2       120.7        97.5       16.8          0.37      0.30
10% HIGHER              __=__.                                                  _.__ ._            __   _
BASE CASE      _                            .          .                                  .           ._.
WMN WORKNG EXPENSE          1.260 -/094 __                     98.7       97.5        0.            0.30      0.30
10%     LO NER          _ _  _ __               _  _ _   _  _ _  _   _ _  _  _   _ _  _      _ _  _  _
WORIONG EXPENSES 10%              .           .      _              _                      _ .
LOWER, AND TRAIN                  1,0     4       (t6,0        98.7       113.8      (18.Zp         0.30      0.35
FARE OF US$ 0.35                 . _                                                                    .
WORKiNG EXPENSES 10%                  .;                                                   . _   ._.
LOWER,TRAIN FARE US$0..    1,260       1!a        (20.1        98.7       116,4    JMQ9             0.30      0.35
NO PASSENGER EVASION .           .     __                               .  _              .  . ._.
WORKXNG EXPENSES I                  ________    ___
HIGHER, FARE OF US$ 0.      1          1.033       40.3       120.7        77.5      33.4           0.39      0.25
PASS.EVASION/fRANSF. It .    ...____                                                     ._.
BASE CASE       __.                      __                          ..         _                      t
PRESENT TRAIN..        1          1           61.34      109.7        45.6       55.8          0.34      0.14
FARE  OF  US$ 0.14  .    _ __  _   ._  _  _ _  _ _  _    .._  __                           ___I__._



- 134 _
ANNEX 5C
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
1.    Since the main objective of the proposed project is to increase the
capacity offered by the rail suburban system, it is expected that a
substantial percentage of the passengers now carried by bus will return to
their original mode of transportation, that is, rail. This is especially true
for passengers who live within walking distance from the stations, who
switched to bus because, in the last five years, the capacity offered by the
trains decreased considerably. However, it is not so obvious for those
passengers who are not within walking distance. Nevertheless, it is estimated
that in the Sao Paulo metropolitan area there will be 1006 less bus tripsiday,
because 320,000 pass/day will switch back to rail. The main positive
environmental impacts expected stem from this reduction in bus services, given
their present negative impact on the air quality, noise levels, traffic
congestion, road accidents. Other positive impacts are the effect of the
rehabilitation of the rail system on passenger safety at the stations, on the
land use around the right of way and the decrease of fatal accidents resulting
from lack of fencing of the right-of-way. We will discuss these impacts in
the next sections.
2.    The impact on air quality is due to lesser fumes produced by the buses
which will be removed from circulation, or which will have their route-km.
shortened because they will be feeding the trains rather than running parallel
to them. The impact on air quality was estimated at 6.3 million US$/year in
Sao Paulo. The impact on noise levels is also due to the removal of buses,
where the vehicles are noisy and when bunched together, cause very high db
levels, which hardly allow people to chat at normal voice levels on the
street. This impact was quantified at 1.3 million US$/year in S. Paulo. The
impact on traffic congestion was also estimated at 8.4 million US$/year in S.
Paulo and is mainly due to the lower waiting time for commuters using their
automobiles and buses and also due to the savings in fuel consumption since
the vehicles consume more when they are idle. The effect on road accidents is
based on statistics which suggest that in these metropolitan regions the
number of bus accidents is estimated at a certain level. It is estimated that
the savings due to lesser accidents are 1.7 million US$/year in S. Paulo. In
addition, the fencing of the right-of-way is expected to decrease the number
of fatal accidents due to people who are constantly trying to cross the right
of way. References CB18-19-20 of the Project File (Annex 6) describe the unit
values used to quantify the benefits and costs.
3.    Benefits which were not quantified are those related to the improved
living environment which will result from safer and cleaner stations in Rio,
crossovers from the sidewalks to the stations, space for queuing up at the
wickets, ramps for the handicapped and, in some cases, modal integration with
taxis, buses and private automobiles. Other non-quantified benefits are those
related to the structuring effect of a revamped rail system which will attract
housing in the surrounding areas. Furthermore, real estate development on the
air space above the stations and in land owned by CBTUJ is also expected.
Otlher non-quantified benefits relate to the lesser stress which the road
system and congestion will impart on the road users and the better ambience
expected in trains where, at present, people are carried as cattle. Lower
trip times and faster home-to-work trips may also have a more negligible
effect on the rail users' welfare.



- 135 -
ANNEX 5C
Page 2 of 2
4.     The proposed physical rehabilitation of the system is not expected to
have negative impacts on the environment. Most materials used will not affect
nature, the contractors will be responsible for proper disposal of old
materials, the earthworks are mainly in CBTU's existing right-of-way and there
is no expropriation. Wooden ties will only be procured from contractors who
are allowed by X-heir national agencies to sell them and wherever feasible
concrete ties will be used. The visual impact of the stations will be
minimized with proper architectural designs which will blend with the
environment and the same will be done with the overhead catenary, wherever
possible.
5.     In short,  the environmental impact of the project is expected to be
highly positive and even in the worst scenario, if passenger projections do
not materialize, it will still be positive for the metropolitan regions
involved.
Table 1:   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Expected Savings
CUSS milLion/year)
l ____________________________________              S.   Paulo
Air Pollution                                        6.3
Noise Pollution                                      1.3
Accidents Reduction                                  1.7
Lower Congestion                                     8.4
TOTAL                              17.7
Source: CBTU
July 1991
Table 2:        ESTIMATE OF REDUCTION OF BUS FLEET
, _ - ror      DEMCAP  PART.  CAP.  F.R.  NUM.        VEL.  TRAJ.  TEMP.  VIAGJ  RED.
PIC.M  ONI.   -    VIAG.    ONI   ONI    CIC    CIC    FROT
Santos Jundiai        187    0.251   75   1.10    568       15   28.00   3.78   0.79  716
Leste Tronco           80    0.259   75   1.10    251       15   34.00   4.52   0.66  378
Leste Variante        53    0.290   75   1.10    186        15   34.00   4.52   0.66  281
TOTAL       320                   1.10   1005                                  1397
Source: CBTU
July 1991
DEM.CAP.       Potential demand that can be captured (000's day).
PART.PIC.M     Morning peak as % of total daiLy trips.
CAP.ONI.       Bus capacity.
F.R.           Renewal factor for road.
NUMN.IAG.      Number of bus trips to be eliminated at peak.
VEL.ON1.       Comrmercial speed of competing bus
TRAJ.ONI       Route length of competing bus in km.
TEMP.CIC.      Cycle time of bus.
VIAG/CIC       Number of bus trips during peak
IRED.fROT.     Reduction of competing bus fleet.



136 -
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
CBTU
CBI. Planta Localizagao, etc. - CBTU
CB2. Projeto do Trem Metropolitano da RPBH, Investimentos, etc. - CBTU, 8/90
CB3. Solution for Urban Transportation - CBTU
CB4. Dados Basicos, RJ, BH, Salvador, Brasilia, Maceio, Recife - IBRD, 10/90
CBS. Programa de Recuperagao Emergencial do Trem Urbano - CBTU/BIRD I
CB6.  Mem6ria dos Entendimentos Preparat6rios para a Constituigao de um
conselho... - 04/02/91
CB7. Processo de Estadualizagao - CBTU, 01/29/91
CB8. Anexos ao termo Aditivo - CBTU
CB9.  Revista dos Transportes P§blicos (Vol. 44, 47, 48) - CODATU
CB10. Urban Transport in Developing Countries - Codatu V-SP
CB11. National Mass Transportation Plan - EBTU - 07/88
CB12. Plano Emergencial Recuperagao Transporte Ferroviirio urbano- 07/90
CB13. Lint.a auxiliar x Pr6-Metr8 - CBTU, 04/91
CB14. Justificativas para meta de 1,200,000 pass/dia - CBTU - 04/91
CB15. Nova politica tarifiria, Plano emergencial
CB16. Informas8es gerenciais - CBTU, STU-RJ
CB17. Situag&o dos transportes urbanos - TCI, 04/91
CB18. Plano de Recuperag&o do trem urbano-RJ, SP e relat6rio do projeto - CBTU
CB19. Prog. de recuperagao trens metror. RJ-SP, Relat6rio, Anexo I, Anexo II
CB20. Prog. emergencial de recuperagao do trem urbano - Relatorio, Anexos I e II
CB21. Estudos dos Sistemas de Trens Urbanos - Doe. 1 - Belo Horizonte
CB22.                                         - Doe. 2 - Fortaleza
CB23.                                         - Doc. 3 - Recife-Metrorec
CB24.                                         - Doe. 4 - Recife - Linha Sul
CB25.                                         - Doc. 5 - Joao Pessoa
CEB26.                                        - Doc. 6 - Macei6
CB27.                                         - Doc. 7 - Natal
CB28.                                         - Doe. 8 - Salvador
CB29. Organigram of CBTU Administration from 5/90 - 7/91
CB30. Draft Financial Policy Study for SNT 5/91
SAO PAULO
SP1. Texto, dados Vale Transporte - CET, 05/03/91 (Fax)
SP2. Texto Palestra - CET, 05/02/91 (Fax)
SP3. Megacities Transport Seminar - IBRD (Hemo)
SP4. Projeto Trem Metropolitano da RMBH, Investimentos, etc. - CBTU, 08/90
SP5. Relat6rio da Administrag&o 1987 - Co. Metropol. de SP
SP6. Informagaes bGsicas - Pesquisa Origem/Destino 1987
SP7. Via Perimetral Metropolitana - CDH
SP8. Plano de Expansao Transporte Metrop. - Metr8
SP9. Regulag&o, Subvenglo e Propriedade do Transporte Coletivo SP - CEPAL, 1989
SP10. Dados B&sicoo, RJ, BH, Salvadort Brasilia, Maceio, Recife - IBRD, 10190
SPII. Hetr8, 15 Anos em Operagao
SP12. Relat6rio da Administragao 1990
SP13. Peaquisa OD/87
SP14. SP Metropolitan Company 20 years - 1968-88
SPF5. Relat6rio Anual - FEPASA, 1989
SP16. Relat6rio Anual - FEPASA, 1990
SP17. Annual Report 1989 - Metro
SP18. Sumfrio de Dados da Grande Sao Paulo - 1990
SP19. Draft Convenio B&sico and Programa do Trabalho (GOB/SP) (10/91)



- 137 -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
CBTU FAST DISBURSEMENT ALTERNATIVE
1.  CBTU believes that it can disburse faster than proposed and agreed with
the Bank. The Bank has no objection in anticipating disbursements if CBTU
complies with all Bank guidelines for procurement of works, goods and
consultants.
2.  Accordingly, the Bank has agreed to include in this appraisal the
Disbursement Schedule proposed by CBTU.
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE (CBTU ALTERNATIVE)
(US$ millions)
|_-_-_:_-_____._._,,                        Total,
Year          S. Paulo    Cwmulative Value
1992                50.4           50.4             40
1993                50.4          100.8             40
1994                25.2          126.0             20
1995                  0                              0
1996                  0       -             ,        0
TOTAL          126.0                           100
Source: C3TU



BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
Decentralizafion Project
CBTU  - So Paulo System
-CBWV EROSECr LINE
-METRO SYSTEM
f AEPARAILROADS
A       JIUNDIAW                                                                .                                                                  SA RAILROADS
r                                             C CsTU PROJECTPASS&IGER SVIONS
/CAMPO LIMPIO6
PAUUSTA   \                                                                                                               *AEROSTATONS
PAUUStA .N          O   , C                                                            v                    A    X                       ROADS
- -°          --M-WUICIPAOUNDARSE
PAULIOrA1(!
FP~~NCO  F~~OEIJS SATAZM                     / - ~~~~    SANA ISABEL          U-                            V
_ \ u ~~~~FRAIC-o    FITDES                 R        MAfRl'PORAv SATIE ;oc;r S
-                              VA ROCHA         O                                                      _                                                [       L-UP ARwA
CIEIRAS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     SAI
r 8 t o; s -i >s r / ~~~~~~~~~GUARULO                                                A-R XjA_
\   \    ° >>Rr.sSAO PAL) LOg.-t's  ,';   |   'to. 4  AQUECU                                                                           A
IC  1MER20
ITTAP&RCAO
EMBUGULV,'    ,4       TpM- 
@W;~~~~~~~~~~1FMJ'A-
L~~~~~~~~~~ -1EX
w-AC,, o'>\-/,                  's_ 



