Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18814
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3457-BR)
January 22, 1999
Transport Cluster
Finance, Public Sector, and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit LCC5C
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
June 1991
Currency Unit: Cruzerio (Cr$)
US$1.00 = Cr$297.87
June 1998
Currency Unit: Reals (R$)
US$ 1.00 = R$1.1525
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Director           Gobind Nankani
Sector Management Director            Danny Leipziger
Lead Specialist                       Jeffrey S. Gutman
Task Manager                          Jorge M. Rebelo



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATC             Automatic Train Control
ATS             Automatic Train Stop
BC              Central Bank of Brazil
Banco Central do Brasil
BNDES           National Economic and Social Development Bank
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social
CBTU            Brazilian Urban Train Company
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
CBTU-SP         Brazilian Urban Train Company, Sao Paulo Subdivision
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
CPTM            Metropolitan Train Company of Sao Paulo
Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos
CCE             Centralized Energy Control
CCO             Operational Control Center
EBTU            Brazilian Urban Train Company
Empresa Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
EMU             Electric Multiple Unit
FEPASA          Ferrovias Paulistas S.A.
Sdo Paulo State Railway
GEIPOT          National Transport Planning Agency
Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
GOB             Federal Government
Governo Federal
IDB             Inter-American Investment Bank
MSP             Municipality of Sao Paulo
Governo Municipal do Sdo Paulo
MAS             Ministry of Social Action
Ministerio de Social Accio
METRO/SP        Metropolitan Train Company of SAo Paulo
Companhia do Metropolitano de Sdo Paulo
PITU            Urban Transport Integration Program
Programa Integrado de Transporte Urbano
RFFSA           Federal Railways
Rede Ferrovi6ria Federal S.A.
SNT             National Transport Secretariat
Secretdria Nacional de Transporte
SP              State of Sao Paulo
Governo Estadual do Sdo Paulo
SPMR            Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region
Regido Metropolitana do Sao Paulo
STM             Secretariat for Metropolitan Transport
Secretdria dos Tranportes Metropolitanos
UIP/PIU         Project Implementation Unit
Unidade de Implementacio do Projeto
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not, otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .....................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................                                                                                                 ii
Part I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement of Objectives .
B.    Achievement of Objectives. 
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .10
D. Project Sustainability .1
E. Bank Performance                                                               .12
F. Borrower Performance                                                              .13
G. Assessment of Outcome .14
H. Future Operations .14
I. Lessons Learned .15
Part II.            Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .18
Table 3: Project Timetable .20
Table 4: Loan Disbursements Cumulative Estimated and Actual .20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .21
Table 6A:  Project Operational Indicators ..................................................                                           22
Table 6B:  Project Financial Indicators ..................................................                                             22
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project ..................................................                                             23
Table 8A: Project Costs ..................................................                                                             25
Table 8B:  Project Financing ..................................................                                                        25
Table 9A    Economic Evaluation ..................................................                                                     26
Table 9B    Sensitivity Analysis ..................................................                                                    26
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                                                28
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................................                             30
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................                                             30
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................                                                 30
Appendix A: Aide Memoire for Final Supervision Mission ..................................................                              31
Appendix B: Borrower Summary of the Project and Sector Action Plan .......................................... 35



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
LOAN 3457-BR
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport
Decentralization Project, for which Loan 3457-BR in the amount of US$126.0 million equivalent was
approved on March 31, 1992 and made effective on February 3, 1993. The Borrower provided an
additional US$168.0 million equivalent.
The original closing date of March 31, 1996 was extended twice and the project closed on March
31, 1998. The Bank loan was 100% disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on July 16, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Albert Amos (LCSFP) and Jorge M. Rebelo (LCSFP), and it
was reviewed by Messrs./Mmes. Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance Support Unit), Jeffery S.
Gutman (Lead Specialist, LCSFP) and Gobind Nankani (Director, LCC5C).
Preparation of the ICR was initiated during the Bank's supervision mission in February 1998 and
finalized during the Bank's ICR mission in September 1998. It is based on material in the project file and
discussions with the Borrower. The latter contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing a
retrospective assessment of the project and conducting an ex-post economic evaluation of the project.



ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3457-BR)
Introduction
i.    The Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project was the fifth of ten Bank loans to
Brazil in the urban transport sector approved since 1978. This loan was the first in a program designed to
assist the Government of Brazil in transferring the ownership and management of the Federally-owned
Brazilian Urban Train Company (CBTU) to the States where its subdivisions were located. The 1988
Brazilian Constitution mandated the transfer of ownership and management of urban transport systems to
local (state and municipal) governments and, in 1991, GOB decided to implement this mandate. At
appraisal, CBTU operated urban rail services in 44 municipalities spread over 9 states with a total
population of 38 million inhabitants and total ridership levels averaging roughly 1.9 million daily
passengers. The largest nine CBTU commuter systems were located in Rio de Janeiro (380 km), Sao
Paulo (192 km), Recife (52.5 km), Belo Horizonte (33.6 km), Salvador (13.5 km), Fortaleza (42 kin),
Macei6 (33 km), Joao Pessoa (30 km) and Natal (56 km). The program designed by the Brazilian
government called for the transfer of all 9 of these systems to their respective States.
ii.    The commuter rail system  serving Sao Paulo had deteriorated significantly due to the
maintenance backlog accumulated during the last five years of CBTU's management. Passenger trains
broke down frequently, and the track, signaling, telecom and power infrastructure were in poor conditioni,
causing frequent service disruptions, severe overcrowding of trains, and unsafe conditionis with an
unacceptably high number of accidents and fatalities. Since the Sao Paulo rail commuter system was
managed by CBTU from its Rio de Janeiro headquarters, service provision, maintenance needs, and
investment priorities were frequently disconnected from local expectations and poorly integrated with
other modes. Finally, CBTU-SP was badly managed from a financial standpoint and had a large operating
deficit. The Bank agreed to assist the Government of Brazil in carrying out its decentralization program
since the project provided a unique opportunity to make structural changes in the urban transport sector,
promote modal integration and improve long-term financial sustainability. In addition, the Bank's role as
the "honest broker" was crucial in mediating between the Federal and State governments, since the latter
were distrustful of receiving the systems, which were highly deteriorated and required substantial
operating subsidies.
Project Objectives
iii.    The stated broad objective of the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
(3457-BR) was to lay the foundations for the financial, institutional, and organizational policy changes to
achieve sustainable integrated multimodal transport in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region. The specific
objectives of the project were to: (i) support the Federal Government in its efforts to transfer the CBTU-
SP subdivision to the State of Sao Paulo to enhance its management and operations; (ii) introduce
institutional, organizational, and financial policy reforms to ensure its long-term financial sustainability,
including cost-efficiency gains, improved multimodal integration, expanded capacity and substantial
reduction in subsidies; and (iii) contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental improvement (by



iii
facilitating access to work, decreasing travel time to and from work, reducing congestion, and reducing
accidents and fatalities through the provision of safer and more comfortable rail transport).
Implementation experience and results
iv.    The project objectives were substantially achieved. Some of the results achieved by the project,
particularly in regard to sector restructuring, were significant: (i) full decentralization of the CBTU-SP
subdivision from the Federal Government to the State of Sao Paulo and the creation of a new company,
the Metropolitan Train Company of Sao Paulo (CPTM) to operate the transferred assets; (ii) merger of
CBTU-SP with FEPASA, the state-owned metropolitan railway, under the CPTM  umbrella providing
270-km of unified commuter lines to the region; (iii) creation of a Secretary of Metropolitan Transport
(STM) within the State government to enhance coordination of metropolitan transport services; (iv)
development of a serious effort to integrate rail with other transport modes (Metro, bus, trolley bus, and
autos) and discussion of metropolitan transport issues through an informal Regional Transport
Coordination Commission (RTCC), where the State, the Municipality of Sao Paulo and other
municipalities and all operators are represented; (v) preparation of a study to evaluate options to
concession out CPTM  to the private sector with an action plan for its implementatioll; and (vi)
preparation of a study to propose financial mechanisms for the sector. The infrastructure and equipmenlt
rehabilitation program of the project achieved inter alia: (i) rehabilitation of 50 trains and 19 stations, new
telecom and signaling systems, improvement of track infrastructure and a new operational control center;
and (ii) improvement of safety conditions, evidenced by the reduction from 160 to 2 fatal accidents per
year.
V.     Initial delays between loan approval and effectiveness plus the delays in setting up a special
account in a commercial bank (the first time that this was being done in Brazil) were among the critical
factors that resulted in the 18 month extension of the closing date. Furthermore, the introductioni of a new
currency (the Real) with a stronger than expected exchange rate to the dollar and the approval of a new
national procurement law were additional factors, which could not be identified at appraisal that caused
implementation difficulties. These difficulties were overcome by a very intensive project supervision
effort. Although the infrastructure and equipment componenit was duly completed, delays in the
completion of train rehabilitation contracts resulted in low train availability throughout most of the
project period, which had a negative effect on passenger traffic levels and operating subsidy targets. Soon
after the delivery of the rehabilitated trains, which was completed barely I monthi before the closing date,
there were already visible improvements in the level-of-service offered by CPTM.
vi.    Decentralization. This primary project objective was achieved in full. The transfer process was
initiated in August 1991 with the signing of the Decentralization Agreement, which defined the general
terms of the transfer of CBTU urban rail assets and operations to the State government. Enacted in
August 1993, the Asset Transfer Law amended the prevailing legal framework to permit the
decentralization of federal assets and mandate the eventual transfer of all urban rail assets within CBTU
to their respective state and municipal governments. The decentralization process was completed on May
28, 1994 with the transfer of CBTU, FEPASA, and RFFSA rail assets in the SPMR to the newly created,
state-agency, CPTM.
vii.    Multimodal Integration. This objective was substantially achieved and is now regarded as a
basic strategic pillar in any new urban transport investment in the SPMR. The project consolidated
metropolitan rail services that had been previously provided by FEPASA and CBTU under the CPTM
umbrella and reconfigured existing bus lines to better complement the urban rail network. STM
concurrently carried out a number of actions to better integrate CPTM operations with Metro and
metropolitan bus services provided by Empresa Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos (EMTU) and the



iv
municipal-owned Sao Paulo Transportes (SPTRANS). STM has also designed an integrated urban
transport, land use, and air quality strategy (PITU) to promote modal integration and improve investment
planning. To improve connections with the Sao Paulo Metro (subway), CPTM is scheduled to transfer
two of its lines to the Metro in November 1998. A study financed by the project identified the intermodal
conn'ections needed to encourage the use of rail networks as the main passenger trunk corridors. To this
end, STM is gradually reconfiguring bus networks to better feed CPTM and Metro. These efforts are
indicative of the crucial role of STM in promoting a dialogue between transport operating agencies.
viii.   Physical Works. The project infrastructure and equipment component was satisfactorily
completed, albeit with considerable delays, and at a cost overrun of US$12.4 million (or 4.4 percent
higher than appraisal estimates). Low train availability due to insufficient Federal (before
decentralization) and State budget allocations for maintenance activities throughout most of the project
had a negative effect on passenger traffic. This situation was compounded by the two-year delay in the
delivery of the rehabilitated trains. A consortium of two respected local manufacturers, which had been
awarded the 101 train series contract on an ICB bid, experienced serious financial difficulties after the
introduction of the Real. Although several options were proposed, such as canceling the contract, the
money and time losses stemming from possible judicial litigation led CBTU to a protracted period of
negotiations with the two firms. In the end, the problems were resolved satisfactorily but the delay in
delivering the 101 train series affected the quality of service offered.
ix.    Without the rehabilitated trains, available peak-period capacity was stretched and total passenger
traffic steadily decreased. Difficulties in finding available space on trains and often cramped conditions
conistrained ridership. By project end, daily passenger traffic decreased 10 percent. With the delivery of
the rehabilitated trains, train availability has increased to 72 percent and passenger traffic has started to
respond accordingly. In addition, the project financed the renovation of 19 stations, the construction of
the new Lageado station, an Operational Control Center, and 9 pedestrian bridges, and the installation of
modern telecom and signaling equipment. In response to public and political pressure, the State increased
CPTM's mainteniance budget in late 1996, helping CPTM  to carry out an emergency rehabilitation
program that decreased the maintenance backlog that had accumulated in its first two years. One of the
main advantages of decentralization was to force the State to react faster to public complaints and
improve the condition of the trains and infrastructure.
x.     Economic Evaluation. Project civil works, which accounted for a total investment of US$284.8
million (at 1998 prices) or 97.1 percent of total project cost, yielded a project net present value (NPV) of
US$138.1 million, and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 18.6 percent. These calculations include the
benefits of the externalities achieved stemming from project implementation, e.g., fewer accidents,
reduced congestion, and improved air quality. If these externalities are factored out, the project would
still have an ERR of 16.4 percent and an NPV of US$87.8 million.
xi.    Urban Transport Sector Strengthening. A major contribution of the project was to help create
the enabling environment needed to restructure the institutional framework for urban transport in the
SPMR. As a condition for appraisal, the State of Sao Paulo established the Secretary of Metropolitan
Transport (STM) to be in charge of all metropolitan transport in the SPMR. The project was also
instrumental in pushing for the creation of a Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC), an
informal forum for the State, municipal governments, and transport service providers to discuss urban
transport issues common to the region, such as modal integration, automated ticketing, tariff and subsidy
policies.
xii.   CPTM Institutional Strengthening. This objective was partially achieved through the studies
included in the institutional component, which were intended to develop, build, and deepen institutional



v
capacity within CPTM. The project substantially improved management information systems,
management of financial resources, revenue generation, and organizational processes. Although CPTM
did not achieve the mid-term review working ratio target of 1.40, this ratio nevertheless declined from
4.23 to 1.81 from 1990 to 1997. The improved working ratio is linked to an increase in revenues. CPTM
still requires subsidies (estimated at US$91.6 million in 1997) due to overstaffing and high fare evasion,
but it should be noted that 1997 was an unusual year as service interruption caused an increase in
subsides. CPTM is also constrained by political interference and bureaucratic red tape. These factors
explain why the concession of the CPTM system to the private sector would be desirable. To encourage
greater private sector participation in the management of CPTM, the project financed a major study to
evaluate the options available and prepare an action plan for procuring a concession of the system. The
willingness to undertake the study shows that decision-makers are now ready to explore private sector
participation in rail operations, another important achievement of this project.
xiii.   The project assisted in the transfer of tariff setting functions for commuter rail services to the
State, harmonized tariffs with the transferred FEPASA lines, and raised CPTM tariffs to more closely
reflect the cost of service delivery. By project end, commuter rail tariffs (in 1991 constant dollars) were
US$0.79, or more than double the appraisal target for the end of the project. To maintain price stability,
CPTM was provided with a single opportunity to raise tariffs during the subsequenttwelve-month period
after the introduction of the Real. However, the higher tariffs, the economic downturn in 1995, and the
delayed delivery of the rehabilitated trains all had a negative impact on passenger demand. Passenger
traffic decreased by about 10 percent from pre-project levels to 796,000 daily passengers, or slightly
lower than 830,000 target set during the mid-term review. This decrease was also due to lower train
availability, which began to improve in 1998.
xiv.   Through project implementation, the fare evasion rate was around 25 percent. Unfortunately,
CPTM has been slow in taking the necessary measures to reduce fare evasion. CPTM has hired 1200
guards and began installing station enclosures. The project itself financed the construction of right-of-way
separation barriers. It is estimated that a 50 percent reduction in fare evasion would reduce operating
subsidies by 16.6 percent. Installation of automated ticketing machines would also help to reduce fare
evasion. The problem of fare evasion would certainly be handled more aggressively under a concession
contract with the private sector, as was shown with the concession of the commuter rail lines in Buenos
Aires.
Bank Performance
xv.    Bank performance is satisfactory during preparation, appraisal, and supervision. During
preparation (and again at appraisal), the Bank strengthened the capacity of CBTU to carry out the
technical, economic, and financial evaluations and undertake Bank procurement procedures. The use of
economic evaluation and strict financial assessment methodologies in investment planning is now the
rule. During supervision, the Bank played the role of the "honest broker" by mediating between the
Federal government and the State, especially during the most critical stages of the decentralization
process. This role was highly appreciated by both sides. In sensing a favorable shift towards the
acceptance of concessions to the private sector, the Bank encouraged the evaluation of options for
concessioning out the CPTM system to the private sector and convinced the State to undertake a major
study on this subject. This study laid the groundwork for the concession of CPTM, which should take
place by late 1999. During supervision, the Bank was instrumental in resolving the difficulties related to
the train rehabilitation program, and encouraging the creation of an informal RTCC, which has been an
important entity for promoting modal integration in the metropolitan region. The project team also held a
number of presentations to the urban transport community emphasizing the basic pillars for sector
sustainability, which include: (i) the Regional Transport Coordination Commission; (ii) the Integrated



vi
Urban Transport, Land Use and Air Quality Strategy; (iii) financial mechanisms to improve
sustainability; and (iv) private participation in the operation of urban transport systems.
Borrower Performance
xvi.   Borrower performance was overall satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal, and
implementation. The Federal Government deserves high marks for enacting the Asset Transfer Law (Law
8693/93) and assuming previous debt commitments. However, it was slow in approving the loan and the
procedures necessary to set up the special account in a commercial bank, and did not provide adequate
maintenance budgets to CBTU-SP between loan appraisal and decentralization. CBTU, was a diligent
implementation agent, and quickly learned Bank procurement methods and economic and financial
methodologies. CBTU management also acted promptly in obtaining the necessary approval of the
decentralization law and overcoming implementation difficulties imposed by the new currency and the
national procurement law. The State government was excellent in all the institutional aspects related to
the decentralization process, but similarly failed to provide adequate maintenance funds to ensure train
availability-at least until late 1996. From that point onward, the State made a significant effort to
provide funds to CPTM, which enabled the company to dramatically improve the level of service
provided. From 1997 onwards, the State made the improvement of CPTM's services and image one of its
main priorities and launched a number of investment programs to arrest further deterioration of the
system. Although not part of the project, the State failed to seize the opportunity to concession out CPTM
before the end of its term.
Summary of Findings
xvii.  General project outcome was considered to be satisfactory. Decentralization of the CBTU-SP
system to the State government and the merger of two existing commuter railways (CBTU and FEPASA)
into the newly created CPTM, was successfully completed. This merger unified 270 km of commuter
lines and improved modal integration. The project also laid the foundation for the necessary financial,
institutional, and organizational policy changes to achieve sustainable and integrated multimodal
transport in the SPMR. The physical condition of the urban commuter system in Sao Paulo is in markedly
better condition, especially with the addition of the rehabilitated trains, completion of the station
renovation works, and installation of modern signaling telecommunications and electrical equipment.
These works should serve to reduce maintenance costs and improve service delivery. Effective revenue
generation has improved CPTM's finances, but its financial performance remains weaker than expected.
CPTM is now better poised for a potential concession, which is under preparation.
Future Operation
xviii.  Building on the progress achieved, the next critical step is the concession of CPTM. Notably, the
introduction of private sector participation would improve CPTM's financial performance by increasing
its commercial orientation, supporting staff retrenchment, and limiting fare evasion. Political interference
would also be reduced. The concession of the CPTM system is one of main objectives in the first follow-
up project in the SPMR, the Sao Paulo Integrated Urban Transport (Barra Funda-Roosevelt Link). Barra-
Funda is also supporting intermodal integration by financing the infrastructure and equipment necessary
to physically link all CPTM commuter lines with the Sao Paulo subway system. The GOB's
decentralization agenda continues to more forward. The Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport
Decentralization Project, which was undertaken in parallel with a similar decentralization initiative in Rio
de Janeiro, has been emulated in later lending operations in Recife and Belo Horizonte. The project has
also provided the conceptual framework in support of the transfer of CBTU subdivisions to other
municipalities (Salvador and Fortaleza).



vii
Lessons Learned
xix.   The following lessons learned were derived from this project:
xx.    Gradual Decentralization Process. Although this project has been highly innovative in
supporting one of the rail first transport decentralization initiatives in the world, a more gradual transition
would have likely minimized the difficulties associated with the actual transfer. After the State assumed
the ownership and management of the system, there should have been a I to 2 year transition period
during which the Federal Government continued to contribute a pre-negotiated amount to help the State
in operating the system. A contribution that would be phased out at the end of the transition period would
have eased the burden of the State while it set up the new company. Furthermore, the best scenario would
have been if the State, shortly after this transition period, tried to concession out the decentralized system
to the private sector. These lessons were applied in the ongoing sister project in Rio de Janeiro, where the
system was concessioned 3 years after decentralization.
xxi.   Decentralization Followed by Concession. Despite the fact that the state-owned operating
agency is better placed than CBTU to respond to local realities, CPTM is still constrained by political
interference and bureaucratic red tape, which affects its productivity. CPTM like most state-owned
agencies is unable to eliminate operating subsidies. These factors are best addressed through a concession
to the private sector. Decentralization is, therefore, only a mandatory stopover in the journey to greater
private sector participation. The 1988 Constitution allows the States, but not the Federal government, to
concession out the provision of urban transport services. In addition, CBTU management had feared that
if the condition to concession out the system to the private sector had been introduced at appraisal, there
would have been political and labor opposition to the decentralization. Now that the political climate is
more favorable to concessions, future projects should consider including dated covenants, which require
substantial private sector participation in the system. Subsequent Bank lending operations in the rail
sector in Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, and Recife have made private participation a critical objective
of project implementation.
xxii.  Reducing Fare Evasion. In systems where there is substantial fare evasion, it is important to
challenge base data on evasion estimates more thoroughly and periodically than was done by CBTU. The
impact of fare evasion should not be underestimated, as it has led to inaccurate estimates of total
passenger traffic and the amount of operating subsidies required. Station and right-of-way enclosures,
automated ticketing machines, outsourcing of ticket sales and revenue collection to private firms as well
as hiring a larger security force are deterrents to fare evasion and should be included as dated covenants
in future projects. Fare evasion and ticket fraud are common problems in most state-owned systems in the
world, but have been drastically reduced after the private sector takes over, as demonstrated in the
Buenos Aires system.
xxiii. Whether to Rehabilitate Existing Trains or Purchase New Trains. The issue of whether to
purchase new trains or rehabilitate existing trains was heavily debated during appraisal. The Borrower
opted for rehabilitation due to the lower costs involved-US$2.5 to 3.0 million for a rehabilitated train as
opposed to US$10 million for a new train-and the relatively shorter time periods for completing train
rehabilitation works. Given the delays experienced, it might have been preferable to have opted for a mix
of rehabilitated and new trains, even if there is no guarantee that the new trains would have been
delivered on time. Potential delays in the delivery of rehabilitated trains should be factored in project
preparation by providing adequate slack in the rehabilitation schedule and adjusting operating plans
accordingly.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LOAN 3457-BR
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The stated broad objectives of the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
(Ln. 3457-BR) were to lay the foundations for the financial, institutional, and organizational policy
changes required to achieve sustainable integrated multimodal transport in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan
Region. The specific objectives of the project were to: (i) support the Federal Government in its efforts to
transfer the CBTU-SP subdivision to the State of Sao Paulo to enhance its management and operations;
(ii) introduce institutional, organizational, and financial policy reforms to ensure its long-term financial
sustainability, including cost-efficiency gains, improved multimodal integration, expanded capacity and
substantial reduction in subsidies; and (iii) contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental
improvement (by facilitating access to work, decreasing travel time to and from work, reducing
congestion, reduction accidents and fatalities through the provision of safer and more comfortable rail
transport).
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2.    The broad project objectives were substantially achieved despite implementation delays largely
beyond the control of the implementation agency. Initial delays between loan approval and effectiveness
plus the delay in setting up a special account in a commercial bank (the first time that this was being done
in Brazil) had a negative effect on project implementation and were primarily responsible for the 18
month extension of the closing date. Furthermore, the introduction of a new currency (the Real) with a
stronger than expected exchange rate to the dollar and the approval of a new national procurement law
were factors, which could not be identified at appraisal that caused implementation difficulties and
delays. These difficulties were skillfully overcome by a very intensive project supervision effort. Some of
the results achieved by the project, particularly regarding sector restructuring, have been significant:
*   Full decentralization of the CBTU-SP subdivision from the Federal Government to State of Sao
Paulo and the creation of a new company, the Metropolitan Train Company of Sao Paulo (CPTM),
to operate the transferred assets. Decentralization included the transfer of ownership and operations
of the system, and was free of any debt or labor liabilities incurred prior to the transfer;
*   Merger of CBTU-SP with FEPASA, the state-owned metropolitan railway, under the CPTM
umbrella providing 270 km of unified commuter lines to the region;
* Creation of a Secretary of Metropolitan Transport (STM) within the State government to enhance
coordination of metropolitan transport services;
*   Development of a serious effort to integrate rail with other transport modes (Metro, bus, trolley bus,
and autos) and for discussing metropolitan transport issues through an informal forum, the Regional



2
Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC) ', where the State, the Municipality of Sao Paulo and
other municipalities and all transport operators are represented;
*   Preparation of a study to evaluate options to concession out CPTM  to the private sector and an
action plan for the implementation of the concession;
*   Preparation of a study to propose financial mechanisms for the sector;
*   Rehabilitation of 50 trains and 19 stations, construction of a new commuter rail station, new telecom
and signaling systems, improvement of track infrastructure and a new operational control center; and
*   Improvement of safety conditions, evidenced by the reduction from 160 to 2 fatal accidents per year.
3.     Background. At appraisal, CBTU operated urban rail services in 44 municipalities spread over 9
states with a total population of 38 million inhabitants and total ridership levels averaging roughly 1.9
million daily passengers. The largest nine CBTU commuter systems were located in Rio de Janeiro (380
km), Sao Paulo (192 km), Recife (52.5 km), Belo Horizonte (33.6 km), Salvador (13.5 km), Fortaleza (42
km), Macei6 (33 km), Joao Pessoa (30 km) and Natal (56 km).2 To operate these services, CBTU
required an estimated $700.0 million in annual subsidies from the GOB, which became difficult to sustain
given recurring fiscal deficits and urgent macroeconomic and investment priorities. This policy also
created an institutional dependence on government subsidies and curtailed incentives within CBTU for
improving financial sustainability through revenue maximization, expenditure reduction, and tightened
fare evasion. Especially during the 1980s and early 1990s, Federal Government budgetary support to
CBTU was insufficient to address general rehabilitation and maintenance needs, which led to a gradual
deterioration of rolling stock and track infrastructure and a general decline in the level of service offered.
In turn, this situation affected ridership levels.
4.     The CBTU subdivision for Sao Paulo, a metropolitan area of 16 million inhabitants, was severely
affected by the maintenance backlog accumulated during the 1980s and early 1990s. Passenger trains
broke down frequently and track, signaling, telecom and power infrastructure were in poor condition,
causing frequent service disruptions, severe overcrowding of trains and often dangerous conditions.
Unlike the other modes (buses, trolleys, Metro, FEPASA commuter railway) in the Sao Paulo
Metropolitan Region (SPMR) which were under the jurisdiction of either municipal or State agencies,
CBTU-SP was part of a federally-owned agency. Since the Sao Paulo rail commuter system was managed
by CBTU from its Rio de Janeiro headquarters, service provision, maintenance needs, and investment
priorities were frequently disconnected from local expectations and poorly integrated with other modes.
The existence of 3 levels of government dealing with urban transport in the SPMR complicated tariff and
modal integration and was the main obstacle for improved transport coordination.
5.     In 1991, to improve this situation and fulfill the mandate outlined in the 1988 Federal
Constitution, the GOB decided to decentralize urban rail services under CBTU to their respective States
(or municipalities), beginning with the rail systems in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.3 The transfer of
urban rail transport services and assets to local governments was undertaken to improve service
I   The RTCC for the SPMR is called "Camaras Tematicas"
2 In 1984, the Govemment of Brazil established the Brazilian Urban Rail Company (CBTU), by separating suburban from freight rail
services, which were both being provided by the Federal Railway (RFFSA), along 810 km of existing rail lines in nine states.
3 A parallel lending operation, Ln. 3633-BR, supported the decentralization of the commuter rail system in Rio de Janeiro.



3
provision, permit greater discretion at local levels in planning and implementing investment priorities,
better integrate bus and rail services, and improve financial sustainability. To encourage the States to take
over the systems, the Federal Government agreed to finance this rehabilitation as well as assume debt
commitments and labor liabilities incurred prior to the transfer. In return, the States would assume
ownership of the systems and responsibility for their operation, management, and any operating subsidies
required after the transfer. The Federal Government would finance technical assistance to set up a new
state-owned entity, the Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos (CPTM) to operate the transferred
services. The GOB approached the Bank to finance the CBTU decentralization program in 1991. The
Bank agreed to assist Brazil in this program because this was a unique opportunity to undertake structural
changes in the urban transport sector, promote its modal integration, and improve prospects for its long-
term financial sustainability. In addition, GOB indicated to the Bank that the role of an "honest broker"
would be crucial in mediating between the Federal and State governments, as the latter were distrustful of
receiving systems that were highly deteriorated and required substantial operating subsidies.
6.     Decentralization of CBTU-SP. This primary project objective was achieved in full. Completing
the transfer process ahead of schedule represented a major achievement given the legal prerequisites and
complicated negotiations that were involved. The transfer process was initiated in August 1991 with the
signing of the Decentralization Agreement, which defined the general terms of the transfer of CBTU
operations in the SPMR to the State government. The passage of the CBTU Asset Transfer Law
(8693/93) in August 1993 amended the prevailing legal framework to permit the decentralization of
CBTU, i.e. the eventual transfer of all urban rail assets within CBTU to their respective State and
municipal governments. Throughout the process, extensive discussions and town hall meetings were held
with impacted constituencies, e.g. local politicians, labor unions, and user associations, to discuss the
challenges and potential benefits of decentralization. The decentralization process was completed on May
28, 1994 with the transfer of CBTU and FEPASA rail assets in the SPMR to CPTM. The merger of
FEPASA, the state-owned commuter railway, with CPTM unified 270-km commuter of lines to better
serve metropolitan transit needs.
Table 1: Important Decentralization Milestones
Date                                             Achievement
August 1991     *  Signing of Decentralization Agreement by the Federal Government and the State of SAo Paulo
May 1992        *  Establishment of CPTM through Law 7861/1992 (Sao Paulo State)
December 1992    *  Signing of an Addendum to the Decentralization Agreement
July 1993       *  Nomination of CPTM Managerial Board
August 1993     *  Enactment of the Asset Transfer Law by the GOB (Law 8693/93)
December 1993    *  Agreement between CBTU and RFFSA for the valorization and transfer of RFFSA assets to CBTU
March 1994      *  Public Decree by the Sao Paulo State Govemment for accepting the transferred assets
*  RFFSA and FEPASA Management Boards approve transfer of their respective shares and assets to CBTU
*  CBTU and CPTM Management Boards approve the division and separate incorporation of CPTM
May 1994
*  Signing of the relevant legal documentation; completion of the transfer of CPTM to Sao Paulo State
government
Sources: CPTM, Bank Staff
7.     Despite initial difficulties, CPTM  has steadily improved its internal operations and has
demonstrated sufficient capacity in managing and operating the commuter rail system. At the time of the
transfer, CBTU had completed less than 30 percent of the agreed works and had neglected the



4
maintenance funding for CPTM due to the financial crisis at the State level. Only in late 1996 and in
response to public pressure, the State administration made urban transport a greater priority by increasing
maintenance allocations to CPTM. CPTM has since improved its maintenance activities and has started to
tighten fare evasion controls.
8.     The physical condition of the transferred assets and overall service provision have improved
considerably since the transfer to the State government. Decentralization has facilitated the identification
of investment needs and planning strategies for improving commuter rail services, including better
integration with other transit services. In addition, the administration of urban rail services has been
placed closer to users, as policy changes affecting service levels or tariff increases have been met with
public reactions requiring immediate response. Local governments are also beginning to exploit the
economic growth potential of rail lines in their metropolitan regions. Despite these accomplishments, the
decentralization of CBTU operations to the State government and the creation of CPTM should only be
viewed as a stepping stone toward the next goal-the concession of the CPTM system to the private
sector.4 Like other major state-owned enterprises, CPTM continues to suffer from political interference
in the appointment of key managerial posts, bureaucracy in procurement decisions, and obstacles in
implementing measures leading to staff retrenchment. CPTM  also lacks the commercial orientation
needed to eliminate operating subsidies, i.e. become more user friendly, carry out comprehensive cost-
reduction measures, and drastically reduce fare evasion.
9.     Multimodal Integration. This objective was substantially achieved and is now regarded as a
basic strategic pillar in any expansion and investment in the SPMR. The project consolidated
metropolitan rail services provided by FEPASA and CBTU under the CPTM  umbrella and reconfigured
existing bus lines to better complement the urban rail network. STM, which was established as an
appraisal condition, has concurrently carried out a number of actions to better integrate CPTM  operations
with Metro, and metropolitan bus services provided by the state-owned Empresa Metropolitana de
Transportes Urbanos (EMTU) and the municipal-owned Sao Paulo Transportes (SPTRANS). Through
studies finaniced by the project, STM  has also designed and periodically reviews an integrated urban
transport, land use, and air quality strategy (PITU) to promote modal integration. PITU  has brought
discipline to investment planning and execution and has facilitated "town-hall" meetings with users and
decision-makers. As part of these efforts, EMTU is undertaking the Metropolitan Corridors and
Terminals Program, which would organize bus lines according to regions and create a network of 66 bus
trunk routes, close to 190 feeder bus lines, and 52 rail stations.
10.    To improve connections with the Sao Paulo Metro (subway), CPTM  is scheduled to transfer two
of its lines to Metro in November 1998. Metro will operate these lines as semi-express services.5 To
physically link the ex-CBTU and FEPASA systems managed by CPTM, the State is building about 7 km
of track between the Bras-Roosevelt and the Barra Funda stations, building two new stations and a
railyard, renovating the Luz station, and installing new telecommunications and signaling equipment.
This initiative is being supported by a $45.0 million loan financed by the Bank. One of the best tools used
in promoting multimodal integration was a study financed by the project, which identified the intermodal
connections needed to encourage greater use of rail networks as the main passenger trunk corridors. An
4   The follow-up loan to this project, the Sao Paulo Integrated Urban Transport Project (Ln. 4312-BR) stipulates the award ofthe concession
ofthe operation, management, and maintenance of at least one of CPTM's lines by December 31, 2000, at the latest.
CPTM is rehabilitating and modernizing the transferred lines. The Leste Tronco works include the construction of 3 new stations, closing
three parallel stations, replacing S stations with subway stations, and the purchase of 30 new EMUs at an estimated cost of $700.0 million.
The Linha Sul works include the development of 7 new stations and integrated rail-bus terminal, and the purchase of 6 EMUs. The latter
is being partially financed by the IDB.



5
connections needed to encourage greater use of rail networks as the main passenger trunk corridors. An
action plan developed under the study is gradually being implemented by the STM. These efforts are
indicative of the crucial role of STM in promoting a dialogue between transport operating agencies.
PHYSICAL WORKS
11.   Improved Level-of Service through Infrastructure and Equipment Rehabilitation. All the
works specified as part of this component were achieved despite two-year delays related to difficulties in
meeting effectiveness requirements, procurement litigation, and the late delivery of the 101 trains series.
The success of the project in carrying out physical investments has supported the privatization process by
helping CPTM to become a more attractive candidate for concession, as the responsibility for relieving
the maintenance backlog would have been shifted to the private operator.
12.    The rehabilitation and maintenance neglect of the 1980s and early 1990s resulted in the general
deterioration of the rail system infrastructure. CBTU-SP was characterized by inefficient operations,
frequent disruptions caused by equipment shortages and failures, lack of appropriate signaling to increase
headways, and numerous fatal accidents. The project attempted to ameliorate this situation by directing
about 97 percent of project resources to goods and civil works, which included inter alia, renovating
rolling stock, signaling, power supply, telecommunications, traffic engineering equipment, building
transfer points, and improving stations and pedestrian access routes. During appraisal (and the mid-term
review), it was agreed that CPTM would rehabilitate and modernize about 50 trains-twenty-three Series
101, twelve Series 160 trains, and fifteen Series 400 trains. The project also financed the rehabilitation of
8 locomotives required for CPTM's general services.
13.    Less than 30 percent of the rehabilitation and maintenance works agreed by CBTU in the transfer
agreement had been concluded at decentralization. From the beginning, this delay prevented train
availability from reaching the level necessary to fully meet passenger demand. Low train availability due
to insufficient Federal (before decentralization) and State budget allocations for maintenance activities
throughout most of the project also had a negative effect on passenger traffic. This situation was
compounded by a two-year delay in the delivery of the rehabilitated trains. A consortium of two
respected local manufacturers, which had been awarded the 101 train series contract on an ICB bid,
experienced serious financial difficulties after the introduction of the Real. Although several options were
proposed, such as canceling the contract, the money and time losses stemming from possible judicial
litigation led CBTU to a protracted period of negotiations with the two firms. In the end, these problems
were resolved satisfactorily, but the delay in delivering the 101 train series affected the quality of service
offered. Without the rehabilitated trains, available peak-period capacity was stretched and total passenger
traffic decreased between 1992 and 1996. Soon after the delivery of the rehabilitated trains, which was
completed barely one month before the closing date, there were already visible improvements in the
level-of-service offered by CPTM. Passenger levels have since started to recover even further. (Annex II,
Table 6)
14.    Similarly, performance indicators relating to train availability and utilization rates, which were
crucial to guarantee train capacity at peak-hours, began to improve during the final months of the project.
(Part II, Table 6). Due to the aforementioned contractor delays, the train availability rate bottomed out to
61 percent in 1996. Without the supply of the rehabilitated trains during most of the project
implementation period to accommodate potential demand, average daily passenger traffic decreased
steadily by about 28 percent to 632,000 in 1996, but has since increased to 796,000. Difficulties in
finding available space on trains and often cramped conditions constrained ridership. As a result,
previous and potential passengers opted to use alternate forms of transit, e.g. buses, non-motorized
transit, or not travel at all. Train modernization was finally completed in early 1998 and train availability



6
has increased to 72 percent. The higher maintenance budget allocations provided by the State since late
1996 are expected to further improve train availability. Although passenger traffic will take time to
materialize, it is expected that the increased supply of urban rail services will lead to a commensurate rise
in traffic levels, because in most cases when functioning adequately, rail is faster and cheaper than buses
in the corridors parallel to the rail lines.
15.   Civil works relating to the modernization of 19 stations located throughout the entire system were
completed with only minimal delays. The renovated works included the addition and repair of protective
ceilings, improved road access, and the construction and renovation of five new and four existing
pedestrian overpasses, respectively. The project also financed the construction of the new Lageado rail
station, which shortened travel times for 40,000 passengers, and 6.8 km of right-of-way walls to help
reduce fare evasion and accidents. In response to public and political pressure, the State government
increased CPTM's maintenance budget in late 1996, helping CPTM to carry out an emergency
rehabilitation program that decreased the maintenance backlog that had accumulated in its first two years.
Completed in early 1997, these measures have since increased train availability and improved the
physical condition of stations, trains and railway superstructure. These works, which included the
improvement of the infrastructure along the Noroeste-Sudeste (No/Se) Line helped to quell the violent
demonstrations, that resulted from the temporary shut down of the line in 1996. Ironically, this
demonstration was a "wake-up" call for the State, which has since earmarked adequate resources for the
maintenance and overhaul of CPTM infrastructure and equipment.
16.   Improved Headways. The project also financed the installation of modern telecommunications,
signaling, and electrical equipment as well as the construction of a new Operational Control Center at the
Roosevelt Station. The project was modified to require signaling equipment for the Leste Tronco Line to
meet three-minute headway specifications. To improve communications links between trains and the
Operational Control Center and better coordinate service provision, the project also financed
telecommunications equipment-telephone digital radio and radio address systems, fiber optic lines, and
supervision and controlling system-for 17 stations along the Leste Tronco, Variante, and No/Se rail
lines. Telecommunications equipment was also installed for 350 trains, three times the amount foreseen at
appraisal.
17.   At the mid-term review in July 1994, only 10 percent of the project funds had been disbursed.
With an intensified effort, the civil works relating to the rehabilitation of rolling stock were finished,
albeit with a 2 year delay. Total project cost was US$293.4 million, as the project experienced a cost
overrun of US$12.4 million (or 4.4 percent of total cost). Increases in project expenditures were largely
due to the appreciation of the Real, which increased the local cost of works and goods that had been
estimated in dollars but contracted in local currency. Differences between estimated and actual project
costs were made up through counterpart funds.6 (Part 11, Table 8A) Given the historical prevalence of
high inflation in Brazil, the introduction of a new currency with a particularly strong exchange rate in
relation to the dollar could not have been foreseen at appraisal. Additional costs were related to the
compensation of contractors for delays caused by the passage of a new procurement law, and the legal
challenges to awarded contracts.
18.   Economic Evaluation. Upon completion, ex-post economic evaluation and sensitivity analyses
were undertaken by the Borrower, using the same methodology and parameters employed in the SAR.
Although satisfactory, the economic indicators were lower than the appraisal estimates due to the longer
6   Project costs, including contingencies were estimated to be about $281.0 million at the mid-term review. At project end, total expenditures
were estimated at $293.4 million.



7
1998 prices) or 97.1 percent of total project cost, yielded a project net present value (NPV) of US$138.1
million, and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 18.6 percent. These calculations include the benefits of
the externalities achieved stemming from project implementation, e.g. fewer accidents, reduced
congestion, and improved air quality levels. If these externalities are factored out, the project would still
have an ERR of 16.4 percent and an NPV of US$87.8 million.
Institutional Strengthening
19.   Urban Transport Sector Strengthening. A major contribution of the project was to help create
the environment necessary to restructure the institutional framework for urban transport in the SPMR. As
a condition for appraisal, the State of Sao Paulo established the Secretariat of Metropolitan Transport
(STM) to be in charge of all metropolitan transport in the SPMR. After discussions with the Bank, STM
adopted a 4 point strategy for restructuring the transport sector, which consisted of: (i) creating a
Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC); (ii) preparing an Integrated Urban Transport,
Land Use and Air Quality Strategy (PITU); (iii) introducing financial mechanisms to improve
sustainability; and (iv) progressively introducing private sector participation in the operation of urban
transport systems. STM has regularly updated the PITU to address changing needs. The project was also
instrumental in pushing for the creation of a Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC), an
informal forum for the State, municipal governments and transport service providers to discuss urban
transport issues common to the region, such as automated ticketing (smart cards), definition of trunk
corridors and feeder lines, organization of bus lines, and tariff harmonization.
20.   The establishment of the RTCC has allowed for the rational discussion of proposed investments
in the sector before being submitted for political approval. A recent example was the discussion of the
routes to be chosen by the "Fura-Fila," a new intermediate capacity transit system to be introduced by the
Municipality of Sao Paulo, which would act as a feeder for the Metro. RTCC discussions have prevented
route duplication and enhanced modal integration. The project also financed the development of the
Financing Mechanisms Study, which proposed new mechanisms for sector financing investments and the
provision of operating subsidies, as needed. The State is now drafting a law based on the study
recommendations. Finally, STM has concessioned the Sao Mateus-Jabaquara busway to the private
sector, the first busway concession in the world. STM is actively pursuing private sector participation in
the management and operations of CPTM and in the development of the proposed Metro Line 4.
21.   CPTM Institutional Strengthening. This objective was partially achieved through the studies
included in the institutional component, which were intended to develop, build, and deepen institutional
capacity within CPTM. The project substantially improved management information systems, financial
resource use, revenue generation, and organizational processes. Although CPTM has been better in
responding to local priorities than the Federal Government, the State still has considerable influence over
its managerial appointments, imposed bureaucratic red tape in procurement, and constrained staff
reorganization. In addition, the financial condition of CPTM has become directly linked to the financial
situation of the State government. This link has become problematic, as evidenced by the limited
availability of maintenance funds during periods of fiscal uncertainty (especially in the first 2 years after
transfer). The concession of the CPTM system to the private sector would weaken this link. To this end,
the project supported the development of the Concession Options Study, which reviewed the options for
increasing private sector participation in CPTM operations and laid the foundations for the concession of
CPTM lines. Although this study was not explicitly included in the project appraisal, the Bank was able
to convince CPTM management and the State government of its importance. The willingness to
undertake the study shows that key decision-makers are now ready to explore private sector participation
in rail operations, another important achievement of this project.



8
undertake the study shows that key decision-makers are now ready to explore private sector participation
in rail operations, another important achievement of this project.
22.    Improving CPTM's Financial Management. The financial performance targets set at appraisal
and modified during the mid-term review were only partially achieved. The project increased CPTM's
financial autonomy, brought investment decisions closer to users, raised tariffs, improved revenue
generation, and increased operational efficiency. Although CPTM did not achieve the mid-term review
working ratio target of 1.40, this ratio nevertheless declined from 4.23 to 1.81 from 1990 to 1997. The
improvement in the working ratio is largely related to the increase in revenues, which were approximately
35 percent greater than estimated at appraisal. This increase in revenues was generated from higher
tariffs, income from renting station space, advertising, and real estate holdings and was achieved despite
the adverse macroeconomic conditions and the decrease in passenger traffic. CPTM still requires
subsidies (estimated at US$91.6 million in 1997) due to overstaffing and high fare evasion, but it should
be noted that 1997 was an unusual year as service interruption caused an increase in subsides. To
improve its financial sustainability in the long-term and reduce its reliance on subsidies, CPTM needs to
attract higher paying passenger demand, carry out a comprehensive cost reduction program, further
increase non-operating revenues, and drastically reduce fare evasion. For example, it is estimated that a
50 percent reduction in fare evasion would reduce operating subsidies by about 16.6%.7
23.    Passenger Traffic. Daily passenger traffic for the commuter system  is highly sensitive to
changes in economic growth, tariffs, and service levels. Potential traffic demand, which was estimated at
appraisal to be about 1.20 million passengers per day at project end, was revised downward to about 0.83
million at the midterm review in July 1994. This forecast was based on recapturing passenger demand
lost to buses, as travel times between stations and the central business district and the generalized costs of
service are lower by rail.8 Although a full demand analysis based on the Tranplan model was used to
estimate CPTM demand, an analysis undertaken at the mid-term review suggested that the assumptions
used to estimate total traffic generation in the SPMR were optimistic due to: (i) a general decrease in
urban transport trips by all modes in the SPMR caused by a slowdown in economic activity and increased
unemployment; (ii) longer than expected delays in providing rehabilitated trains, since passenger demand
in Sao Paulo is supply driven, especially during peak hours; and (iii) flaws in the data used for estimating
total daily passengers carried, which was based on the number of paying passengers divided by a fare
evasion coefficient (estimated by survey). Passenger traffic by the end of the project reached 796,000
daily passengers, slightly below the 830,000 forecast at the mid-term review. This sustained decrease was
due to three factors: (i) the decline in economic growth that took place from late 1994 to 1996 and again
in mid-1998, which affected all transit modes. The 1997 O-D survey indicated that there were 7 percent
fewer public transport trips (all modes) in the SPMR compared to the 1987 O-D survey; (ii) delays in
receiving rehabilitated trains, which persisted after the mid-term review, resulting in fewer trains at peak
hours; and (iii) higher than expected tariffs, which lessened demand among low-income users, especially
among workers ineligible to receive the "vale-transporte," and for non-work related trips.9
7   This calculation is based on the potential revenues generated from total fare evading riders multiplied by the current tariff. A 75 percent
and 100 percent reduction in fare evasion would decrease operating subsidies by 24.8 percent and 33.1 percent, respectively.
8   Generalized costs of service are a function not only of travel times, but also of tariffs, service reliability, and safety.
9   Additional factors that may have impacted on the level of passenger traffic include competition from other forms of urban transit, such as
informal vans, which proliferated since 1992, and growth in non-motorized vehicle traffic. The initial demand analysis suggested that
tariff increases higher than those proposed at appraisal would have a negative impact on non-work related trips. The "vale-transporte"
refers to a targeted subsidy to low-income groups that requires the employer to assume the difference for commuting costs above 6 percent
of total annual earnings.



9
24.    Tariffs. The project assisted in the transfer of tariff setting functions for commuter rail services
to the State, harmonized tariffs with the transferred FEPASA tariffs, which were 3 times greater than
those of CPTM at the time of appraisal, and raised CPTM tariffs to more closely reflect the cost of
service delivery.'" These efforts were aided by the firm measures required by the introduction of the new
currency, which imposed economic discipline and allowed politically sensitive tariff increases. To
maintain price stability, CPTM was provided with a single opportunity to raise tariffs during the
subsequent twelve-month period after the introduction of the Real. In discussions with the State
government, CPTM opted to increase tariffs well beyond what had been agreed at appraisal (and despite
forecasts that such an increase in tariffs would result in a significant negative impact on the non-work
demand)." The economic downturn that took place the following year had a negative impact on1 overall
transport user demand, especially for those users who were not entitled to the "vale-transporte."'2 By
project end, commuter rail tariffs (in 1991 constant dollars) were $0.79, which represented more than
twice the tariff target, $0.37, specified at appraisal. The CPTM tariffs continue to be 70 to 90 percent of
urban and intermunicipal bus tariffs, respectively. For users willing to travel and faced with a choice of
using the bus or CPTM, the most important factor is the level-of-service offered. Due to the improved
level of service offered, CPTM expects to recapture some of the "low-income" user market, which it lost
to the buses and vans from 1994 to 1997.
25.    Fare Evasion. This problem has not been satisfactorily addressed during project implementation
and remains at roughly the same level as at effectiveness. CPTM launched a specific survey on major
stations to assess the prevalence of fare evasion and arrived at an adjusted rate of 25 percent, consisting
of 15 percent of ticket paying avoidance plus 10 percent in revenue losses due to ticket theft or loss. Fare
evasion has hurt the financial sustainability of CPTM. Toward the end of the project, CPTM hired about
1200 guards and began installing station enclosures. Due to bureaucratic red tape at the State level, it took
CPTM two years to hire this security force. However, the additional guards have been primarily used to
prevent accidents and enforce safety at stations rather than limit fare evasion. The project itself financed
the construction of right-of-way separation barriers to block outside access to right-of-way platforms.
Nevertheless, fare evasion would certainly be handled more aggressively under a concession contract
with the private sector as was shown with the concession of the commuter rail lines in Buenos Aires.
26.    Cost Reductions.  Despite substantial reductions in overtime expenses, more drastic cost
reductions were not achieved in large part due to federal legislation mandating salary adjustments and
benefits right after decentralization. Bureaucracy at the State level also prevented the implementation of a
more encompassing staff retrenchment plan. Additional factors that raised operational expenditures
include the implementation of the emergency works program, anti-vandalism initiatives, the improved
security presence, and higher energy costs due to an increase in electricity rates at peak-hours. Despite
these factors, CPTM has been able to reduce personnel costs as a percentage of total operational
expenditures-from 70 to 51 percent. In addition, the modernization works financed by the project-the
rehabilitated trains, station renovation, the implementation of new fiber optic telecommunications
equipment, etc-will serve to lower CPTM maintenance costs over time. A Constitutional bill on
administrative reform, currently under consideration would: (i) allow civil servants to be removed from
Government employment in case of an excess of personnel; (ii) establish an overall wage and pension
ceiling; and (iii) allow the Government to place civil servants on leave with reduced wages. The
0  The state and municipal governments have historically set subway (Metrd) and EMTU (bus) tariffs, respectively.
I   At the time, it was suggested that tariffs should be doubled. Tariffs are now four times greater in real terms than at appraisal.
12  Although workers in the informal economy, which comprises 50 percent of urban commuters, are not entitled to the "vale-transporte,"
roughly half of these workers frequently have their commuting costs covered by their employers and is built into their salaries. However,
about 20 to 30 percent of low-income urban commuters still lack any sort of financial assistance in regard to commuting costs.



10
significant reduction of fatal accidents should also decrease the number of expensive legal actions against
CPTM. Nevertheless, the fastest way to reduce costs is to concession CPTM to the private sector, as the
latter is more agile in trimming overstaffing and is not constrained by the State bureaucracy.
27.    Poverty Alleviation. As a result of the late delivery of the trains, this objective was only partially
achieved within the planned timetable. At one point, travelling conditions for the low-income population
with no other transport alternatives available worsened as a result of train shortages and overcrowding.
Travel conditions began to improve toward the end of the project as soon as the rehabilitated trains came
on-line. User surveys show that the improvements have been noticed, but that the low-income riders
expect better train availability and frequency. An estimated 78 percent of daily passenger traffic in the
Sao Paulo system consists of low income passengers who live in the outskirts of the SPMR and earn less
than five minimum wages. The number of non-work related trips were certainly affected by the drastic
tariff increase. Despite the tariff increase, rail tariffs continue to be 70 to 90 percent of urban and
intermunicipal bus tariffs, respectively. Although the poor who have access to the "vale-transporte" were
largely not affected by the tariff increases, potential users not employed in the formal sector or without
jobs, may have opted to forgo travel altogether, especially during economic downturns. According to the
latest SPMR O-D survey, the number of home to work trips by foot increased substantially in number and
in average distance walked.
28.    Social and Environmental Impact. This objective was partially achieved through the substantial
reduction of fatal accidents (from 160 to 2). Air quality improvements related to a rationalization of bus
routes and a shift of passengers from bus to rail will only become significant after train availability is
high enough to recapture some of the traffic lost to buses.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
29.   Introduction of the Real. The introduction of the Real at an 0.83:1 exchange rate to the US
dollar and the strong measures used to maintain macroeconomic stability eradicated hyperinflation,
increased foreign reserves, and established the foundation for private sector growth. As a result of these
measures, CPI inflation decreased from 2,668 percent in 1994 to about 6.5 percent in 1997. The Real Plan
also marked a swing in income distribution in favor of the poor, through the disappearance of the
inflation tax and through higher real wages. These accomplishments required drastic adjustments in
relative price levels and in local attitudes in relation to inflation. Due to the instability of previous
currencies, project counterpart funds were estimated in dollars, while contracts entered with local
companies were enumerated in local currency. With the stronger local currency, the cost of these
contracts increased in dollar terms, which led to modest project cost overruns and an adjustment in
counterpart funds.
30.    The other significant impact of the stronger Real was on passenger demand. To demonstrate the
GOB's firm commitment in maintaining a stable currency, the central bank raised interest rates, which
tightened credit. From 1994 to 1996, GDP growth slowed from 5.8 percent to 2.9 percent. Employment
losses were experienced during this period, especially among low-income workers. To encourage price
stability there was a one-year moratorium on price increases for public sector services. In meeting this
requirement, CPTM opted to raise tariffs to more than twice the level agreed at appraisal; this decision
was based, in part, on concerns that inflation would persist at historical rates. The higher tariffs
constrained passenger demand, as transport expenses, especially those for employed individuals who did
not receive the "vale transporte" constituted a larger portion of daily income.



'I
31.    Inadequate Maintenance Budgets. Adverse fiscal conditions at the Federal and State levels
slowed the allocation of the necessary financial resources for CBTU (before decentralization) and CPTM
(after decentralization), which limited the routine maintenance of track infrastructure and rolling stock
equipment. In particular, the deterioration in the finances of the State of Sao Paulo impacted allocations
to all State-level public enterprises. This situation was due to: (i) higher prevailing interest rates, which
increased debt service costs; (ii) the reduction in tax revenues once economic growth started to slow
down in 1995; and (iii) increases in public sector wages between 1994-95. With less than adequate
maintenance budgets, CPTM's physical infrastructure and equipment continued to deteriorate, resulting
in train availability rates below the levels agreed at appraisal, thereby constraining passenger demand. It
was not until late 1996 that public pressure forced the State govemment to increase its allocations to
CPTM. Once these revenues became available, CPTM began to address its maintenance backlog,
resulting in higher train availability and improved level of service offered. The risk of insufficient
financial allocations was examined at appraisal. At the time, it was considered that the State government
would be able to fully meet the financial needs of CPTM since the estimated operating subsidies would
be only 3 percent of total transport sector fiscal expenditures in the five years prior to appraisal.
32.    Changes in Procurement Legislation. Although identified during appraisal, procurement
difficulties were experienced during the initial phase of the project, which delayed project
implementation. The passage of Law 8666/94 and Decree 1411/95, changed national procurement rules
for civil works, goods, and consultant services. These modifications required the Borrower to make the
necessary adjustments for contracts under bid affecting all Bank projects in Brazil. The enactment of this
legislation also led to additional implementation delays, as firms not prequalified would utilize the lack of
historical precedents with the new law to challenge bids awarded under Bank guidelines in the Federal
courts, claiming that Bank procurement guidelines could not be used."3 The first court decisions upheld
the use of Bank procurement guidelines for Bank financed-projects, and thereon the number of
challenges decreased. Despite these difficulties, CBTU has become one of the most knowledgeable
public sector entities in the application of Bank procurement procedures in Brazil and has helped CPTM,
Flumitrens in the preparation of bidding documents under subsequent loans.
33.    Initial Delays. Loan signing was delayed six months after board approval and effectiveness did
not take place until nine months after Board approval. These delays had a ripple effect on project
implementation, especially for civil works, which were completed I to 2 years beyond their expected
completion dates. In addition, Government entities in charge were slow in opening the special account, as
this was the first project in Brazil that used a commercial bank for that purpose instead of the Central
Bank. Obviously, this situation delayed the start of project disbursements.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.    Project Sustainability. Likely. The transfer of CBTU-SP operations and assets to the State of
Sao Paulo government, the completion of rolling stock and track infrastructure modernization works, and
the measures taken to increase revenues are factors that bolster project sustainability. Considering the
relative autonomy of Brazilian States, decentralization of the commuter rail system is an irreversible
process. The rehabilitation of rolling stock and track infrastructure arrested the deterioration of the CPTM
commuter rail system, increased train availability, improved service levels, and prompted a recovery in
daily passenger levels. The institutional achievements, especially those related to the sector restructuring,
13  Under Brazilian law, the loser of these lawsuits is not required to cover court costs and similar damages, which has created a low-risk
instrument for companies to challenge procurement awards.



12
including the establishment of STM and the development of the 4-point strategy (para. 19), have served
to improve access to the transit system, reduce travel times, and better integrate investment priorities.
35.    Project financial targets, including wage and subsidy reductions, were only partially achieved.
CPTM's working ratio, expected to reach 1.40 at project closing (and full cost-recovery two years after
the project closing date), was 1.81 in 1997. This ratio, nevertheless, represents a significant improvement
from the pre-project level of 4.23. CPTM still experiences excessive political interference in the
appointment of its senior management and lacks freedom to undertake staff retrenchment. The successful
completion of the proposed concession to the private sector would bolster sustainability by imposing
greater discipline in limiting system expenditures, pursuing more effective revenue maximization
strategies, and limiting political interference. Private sector participation would also reduce fare evasion,
ensure adequate maintenance levels, and achieve higher train availability rates. The concession of at least
one of CPTM lines is a key objective of the Barra Funda-Roosevelt Project, approved by the Board on
April 7, 1998.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   Project identification and preparation. Satisfactory. The project team  engaged in a
constructive debate within the region and with the Borrower regarding the comparative advantage of the
Bank in projects of this type. In the end, there was a consensus that the World Bank's role as an "honest
broker" would be crucial in assisting the GOB in the decentralization process. The project team also made
a strong case that the project provided a unique opportunity to restructure the urban transport sector in
Sao Paulo, support the development of CBTU-SP (later CPTM) as a more cost-efficient and user-oriented
operation, and improve modal integration. During preparation (and at appraisal), the Bank strengthened
the capacity of CBTU to carry out the technical, economic, and financial evaluation of projects as well as
Bank procurement procedures. The use of economic evaluation and strict financial assessment
methodologies in investment planning is now the rule for all proposed CBTU investments.
37.   Project appraisal. Satisfactory. A comprehensive technical, economic and financial evaluation
of the project was carried out by senior staff and experienced consultants. The SAR provided an in-depth
analysis of major issues in the sector and addressed probable risks to project implementation, e.g.
insufficient political will for increasing tariffs, the timely availability of government funds to CPTM, and
procurement delays. The mitigation strategy proposed for minimizing procurement delays-having the
bidding documents ready before effectiveness-could not have foreseen the confusion created by the
introduction of the new national procurement law.
38.   Project supervision. Satisfactory. Sufficient resources were allocated  toward  project
supervision, which allowed for the constant monitoring of the project. Supervision comprised of 58.3
staff weeks, of which 11.4 staff weeks (20 percent) were spent in the field. Supervision missions of short
duration and with number of staff took place with relative frequency. Bank staff tended to combine
supervision with other missions to the region, which proved to be very cost-effective. The retention of
essential project team members permitted a high level of vigilance and a comprehensive understanding to
guide the Borrower through implementation difficulties.
39.    During supervision, the Bank mediated between the Federal government and the State, especially
during the most critical stages of the decentralization process. The project assisted CBTU in carrying out
the difficult process of decentralization, developing the necessary legal and regulatory framework to
undertake the transfer, and ensuring that the necessary institutional restructuring took place. The Bank
was credited for its role as mediator between the Federal and State Government throughout the transfer



13
process. This role was highly appreciated by both sides. Bank support and advice was also crucial in
seeing CBTU through the protracted procurement of the 101 train series and ensuring the eventual
completion of these works. At the midterm review, traffic demand estimates prepared during appraisal
were found to be somewhat optimistic in view of the changing economic conditions and the delays in the
supply of the rehabilitated trains. Demand estimates were revised downward with the initial forecast of
1.2 million daily passengers deferred until 2 years after the project has closed. Subsequent delays in train
delivery suggest that these traffic targets should have been deferred for 4 years. In sensing a favorable
shift towards the acceptance of concessions to the private sector, the Bank encouraged the evaluation of
options for concessioning out the CPTM system to the private sector and convinced the State to undertake
a major study on this subject. The study laid the groundwork for the concession of CPTM, which should
take p!ace by late 1999. The project team also held a number of presentations to the urban transport
community emphasizing the four basic pillars for sector sustainability and intermodal integration. The
creation of the RTCC was a central element of this important strategy.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.   Project preparation  and  appraisal. Satisfactory. Borrower performance was overall
satisfactory during project preparation and appraisal. CBTU worked in good faith throughout project
preparation and provided substantial logistical support and the necessary information to appraise the
project. This project was a "learning experience" for the CBTU Project Implementation Unit, which has
subsequently managed three additional decentralization projects. Both the GOB and the State government
promptly and successfully carried out, the necessary legal steps to initiate the decentralization process.
However, the base total traffic estimates provided by the Borrower were based on incorrect fare evasion
estimates, which led to optimistic passenger traffic projections.
41.   Project implementation. Satisfactory. The Borrower promptly and successfully achieved the
critical objective of the project, the decentralization of CBTU-SP subdivision to the State of Sao Paulo.
The Federal Government deserves high marks for enacting the Asset Transfer Law (Law 8693/93) and
assuming previous debt commitments. However, it was slow in approving the loan and the procedures
necessary to set up the special account in a commercial bank, and did not provide adequate maintenance
budgets to CBTU-SP between loan appraisal and decentralization. CBTU management acted promptly in
obtaining the necessary approval of the decentralization law and overcoming implementation difficulties.
Despite initial difficulties with procurement (in part due to the confusion generated by the national
procurement law), CBTU made a substantial effort in mastering the Bank's procurement guidelines and
standard bidding documents and is now one of the best implementation agencies in terms of procurement
in Brazil. CBTU was also successful in adopting more rigorous economic and financial methodologies
for project evaluation.
42.    The State government should be commended for quickly setting up CPTM, merging FEPASA
rail lines with CPTM, and establishing STM. However, the State government failed to provide adequate
maintenance funds to ensure train availability until late 1996. From that point onward, the State made a
significant effort to provide funds to CPTM, which enabled the company to dramatically improve the
level of service provided. The decision by the State to buy 40 used trains from a Spanish company to
increase train availability was in response to an inefficient local industry which failed to deliver on a
timely basis in other State programs. These "Spanish" trains combined with the trains rehabilitated by the
project have boosted capacity at peak-hours allowing CPTM to provide much better service and attract
more users. Although not part of the project, the State administration, however, failed to seize the
opportunity to concession out the CPTM system before the end of its term. It should also be noted that the



14
ability of CPTM to carry out and implement the recommendations of some institutional strengthening
studies was somewhat weak.
43.   Covenant Compliance. Satisfactory. Compliance with the project legal covenants was generally
good. It should be noted that few covenants relating to institutional strengthening and financial
management were completed with some delays.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   Satisfactory. Nearly all of the decentralization objectives were successfully completed ahead of
schedule. Decentralization of the CBTU-SP system to the State government and the merger of the two
existing commuter railways (CBTU and FEPASA) into the newly created, CPTM, was successfully
completed. The merger of FEPASA into CPTM allowed for the integration of 270-km unified commuter
lines and improved modal integration. CBTU has since followed up the decentralization of its operations
in Sao Paulo with similar projects in Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Recife. The physical condition
of the urban commuter system in Sao Paulo is in markedly better condition, especially with the addition
of the rehabilitated trains, completion of the station renovation works, and installation of modern
signaling telecommunications, and electrical equipment. These works should serve to reduce maintenance
costs and improve service delivery. The completion of project works has also raised user opinions
regarding the reliability of urban commuter rail systems. Considering the budget constraints experienced
by the Federal and State governments, it is the opinion of key decision-makers that without the project
CBTU-SP would have collapsed.
45.   The project has also laid the foundation for the financial, institutional, and organizational policy
changes to achieve sustainable integrated multimodal transport in the SPMR and has instilled the idea that
any urban transport project should have modal integration as one of its main objectives. STM is preparing
to transfer two CPTM commuter lines to Metro and is working toward improving integration of transit
services provided by CPTM, METRO (subway), EMTU (intermunicipal buses), and SPTRANS
(municipal buses).
46.   As far as financial management is concerned, the State government has not fared much better.
Although some improvements have been made (notably higher tariffs and increased revenue generation),
the financial performance of CPTM remains weaker than expected. CPTM's working ratio dropped from
4.23 to 1.81 in the final year of the project. CPTM still requires substantial operating subsidies. Staff
retrenchment and greater outsourcing of services, which was not fully exploited, would decrease
expenditures. CPTM has only belatedly addressed the problem of fare evasion by building walls around
rights-of-way and stations and placing a larger security presence throughout the system. It is estimated
that a 50 percent reduction in fare evasion would reduce operating subsidies by about 16.6 percent.
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
47.   Building on the progress achieved, the next critical step is the concession of CPTM. Notably, the
introduction of private sector participation would improve CPTM's financial performance by increasing
its commercial orientation, supporting staff retrenchment, and limiting fare evasion. Political interference
would also be reduced. The concession of the CPTM system is one of main objectives in the first follow-
up project in the SPMR, the Sao Paulo Integrated Urban Transport (Barra Funda-Roosevelt Link). Barra-
Funda is also supporting intermodal integration by financing the infrastructure and equipment necessary
to physically link all CPTM commuter lines with the Sao Paulo subway system. The Sao Paulo Integrated



15
Transport Project, a second follow-up project under preparation, would support intermodal integration by
financing the development of the Metro Yellow Line (Line 4). This project would link the Metro Green
Line to the Sul Line, a subway line that was recently transferred from CPTM to Metro.'4
48.    The GOB's decentralization agenda continues to more forward. The Sao Paulo Metropolitan
Transport Decentralization Project, which was undertaken in parallel with a similar decentralization
initiative in Rio de Janeiro (BR-3633-BR), has been emulated in later lending operations in Recife (3915-
BR) and Belo Horizonte (3916-BR). The lessons learned in the Sao Paulo project have been incorporated
in the preparation of these and all new loans to Brazil in the urban transport sector. The project has also
provided the conceptual framework and important lessons to support the transfer of CBTU subdivisions
to other municipalities (Salvador and Fortaleza).'5 With Bank assistance, it is expected that the GOB will
complete the decentralization of urban rail services by its revised timetable of December 31, 2001.
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
49.    Gradual decentralization  process. Although this project has been  highly  innovative in
supporting one of the first rail transport decentralization initiatives in the world, a more gradual transition
would have likely minimized the difficulties associated with the actual transfer. After the State assumed
ownership and management of the system, there should have been a I to 2 year transition period during
which the Federal Government continued to contribute a pre-negotiated amount to help the State in
operating the system. This contribution would have been phased out at the end of this transition period
and would have eased the burden of the State while it set up its new company. Learning from the Sao
Paulo project, the Federal Government agreed in the Rio de Janeiro and Recife decentralization projects
to cover labor costs of the systems for I and 2 years after the transfer, respectively. Furthermore, the best
scenario would have been if the State, shortly after this transition period, tried to concession out the
decentralized system to the private sector. This lesson was applied in the ongoing sister project in Rio de
Janeiro, where the system was concessioned 3 years after decentralization.
50.    Decentralization Followed by Concession. Despite the fact that the state-owned operating
agency is better placed than CBTU to respond to local realities, CPTM  is still constrained by political
interference especially in the selection of key managerial appointments, and bureaucratic red tape, which
affects its productivity and financial performance. At both the Federal and State levels, there have been
serious delays in the allocation of maintenance funds. Like most state-owned agencies, CPTM is unable
to make a serious effort in eliminating operating subsidies. These factors are best addressed through a
concession to the private sector. Decentralization is, therefore, only a mandatory stopover in the journey
to greater private sector participation. The 1988 Constitution allows the States, but not the Federal
government, to concession out the provision of urban transport services. At the time of appraisal,
concession contracts were not yet politically acceptable in Brazil, as the national concession law was still
being debated in the House. In addition, CBTU management had feared that if the condition to
concession out the system to the private sector had been introduced at appraisal, there would have been
With an estimated cost of US$1.5 billion, the Line 4 Project will support the construction of 9.1 km and nine new stations. Metro will
implement this project, which will be financed and operated by a private concessionaire, possibly through a 15-year BOT arrangement.
World Bank, JEXIM, and/or BNDES funding for the project are being explored. Metro is also extending subway services along its Green
Line at an estimated cost of US$350.0 million, which consists of the construction of 2.5 km and 2 new stations. BNDES has provided
financing for this project. It is expected that the Green Line extension will be operational by the end of 1998.
Is   Supporting projects for these initiatives are the Salvador Urban Transport Project (BR-PE48869; expected Board date FY1999) and the
Fortaleza Urban Transport Project (BR-PE-6022; expected Board date of FY2000).



16
political and labor opposition to decentralization. Now that the political climate is more favorable to
concessions, future projects should consider including dated covenants, which require substantial private
sector participation in the system. Bank lending operations in Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, and Recife
have made private participation in the rail sector a critical objective of project implementation. The partial
concession of the CPTM system is a condition of the Sao Paulo Integrated Urban Transport Project.
51.    Reducing Fare Evasion. In systems where there is substantial fare evasion, it is important to
challenge base data on evasion estimates more thoroughly and periodically than was done by CBTU. The
impact of fare evasion and ticket theft should not be underestimated, as it has led to inaccurate estimates
of passenger traffic and operating subsidies required. Eliminating fare evasion is more complicated than
previously expected. Fare evaders have broken right-of-way separation walls so that they can reach the
station area and board trains. Crowds have sometimes become violent when barred from entering the
system without a ticket, resulting in guards being attacked and even killed. Therefore, this problem
should be addressed as early as possible during project implementation to discourage fare evasion
behavior among regular riders. Station and rights-of-way enclosures, automated ticketing machines as
well as hiring a larger security force are deterrents to fare evasion and should be included as dated
covenants in future projects. The outsourcing of ticket sales and revenue collection to private firms,
which would receive success fees based on the number of paying passengers above a certain pre-agreed
level, should also be encouraged. In Sao Paulo, this approach was considered but abandoned because of
red tape and instead 1200 security guards were hired. Fare evasion and ticket fraud are common problems
in most state-owned systems in the world, but have been drastically reduced after the private sector takes
over, as demonstrated in the Buenos Aires system.
52.    Whether to Rehabilitate Existing Trains or Purchase New Trains. The issue of whether to
purchase new railcars or rehabilitate existing trains was heavily debated during appraisal. The Borrower
opted for rehabilitation due to the lower costs involved-US$2.5 to 3.0 million for a rehabilitated train as
opposed to US$10 million for a new train-and the relatively shorter time periods for completing train
rehabilitation works. Given the delays experienced by the private firms responsible for the delivery of
rehabilitated trains, it might have been preferable to have opted for a mix of rehabilitated and new trains,
even if there is no guarantee that the new trains would have been delivered on time. In any event,
potential delays in the delivery of rehabilitated trains should be factored in project preparation by
providing adequate slack in the rehabilitation schedule and by adjusting operating plans accordingly.
Neither the local firms involved nor the international firms who won contracts were able to deliver the
rehabilitated trains on schedule. These delays varied from 12 to 24 months.



17
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Sector policies 
Financial objectives                                                                  l
Institutional development                                                             l
Physical objectives                                                                   l
Poverty reduction                                                                     l
Gender issues
Other social objectives                                                               l
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                           /                                  l
Private sector development                                       V 
IIdentifi:cation 
lPreparationri
Appraisal 
lSupervision 
IPreparation                                                                          l
Implementation                                                                        l
iCovenant compliance                                                                  l
IOperation (if applicable)



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
FEAARailway  2857-BR  (a) assist the Government of Brazil in carrying out a program aimed at  1988  ILoan Closed
Rehabilitation                 the financial rehabilitation and improved commercial performnance of    December 31    |
Project                        FEPASA (Ferroviaria Paulista, S.A.); and                                1995l
(b) increase the efficiency of the transport corridors leading to Sao Paulo
Metropolitan Region and the Port of Santos.
Rio De Janeiro   3633-BR  (a) assist the Government of Brazil in its efforts to transfer the CBTU-RJ  1993  Under Execution
Metropolitan                   (Rio de Janeiro) system to the State in order to enhance its
Transport                      management and operations;
Decentralization
Project                    (b) introduce institutional, organizational, and financial policy reforms to
ensure CBTU-RJ's long-term financial sustainability (including cost-
efficiency gains, improved multimodal integration, expanded
capacity, and substantial reduction in subsidies; and
(c) contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental improvement
through better routing of subsidies, improved access to work,
decreased travel time to work, reduced congestion and pollutant
emissions, and reeducated accidents and fatalities through the
provision of safer and more comfortable rail transport) in the Rio de
Janeiro Metropolitan Region.
Recife           3915-BR  (a) development of an integrated urban transport system for the Recife  1995    Under Execution
Metropolitan                   Metropolitan Region under the existing regional transport
Transport                      coordination commission that would be in charge of coordinating and
recommending common policies on pricing, regulation, financing and
investments;
(b) decentralization of the Recife subdivision of CBTU (METROREC
and South Line) from the Federal to the State level;
(c) reduction in the negative environmental and safety impacts of road
vehicles in the RMR and the promotion of non-motorized transport
modes; and
(d) development of targeted strategies and actions to improve the
accessibility of the low-income population to employment centers as
well as health and education facilities.
Belo Horizonte    3916-BR  (a) development of an integrated urban transport system for the Belo  1995    Under Execution
Metropolitan                   Horizonte Metropolitan Region under a Regional Transportation
Transport                      Coordination Commission to coordinate and recommend common
policies on pricing, regulation, financing, project evaluation and
selection;
(b) decentralization of the STU-BH from the Federal to the State and
municipal levels;
(c) reduction of the environmental impacts due to motor vehicles and the
promotion of non-motorized transport modes; and
(d) development of special strategies and actions to improve the
accessibility of the low-income population to employment centers,
health, and education facilities.



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans (cont.)
Ri  eJaneiro  4291    (a) Improve the quality o urban tranispor services in the Rio de Janeiro    1998    Approved byl
Mass Transit                  Metropolitan Region by enhancing the development of a fully              the Board onl
integrated urban transport system; and                                  March 8, 1998l
(b) substantially improve the level provided by Flumitrens while reducing
operating subsidies from the State through the substantial participation
of the private sector in its operations and management.
Sao Paulo        4312-BR  (a) finance infrastructure and equipment, which are critical to the physical    1998    Approved by
Integrated Urban              integration between the two existing rail suburban systems and the Sao   the Board on
Transport (Barra-             Paulo subway system (METRO);                                             April 7, 1998
Funda Roosevelt).l
(b) improve the level of service provided by enhancing the participation of
the private sector in the management and operation of the Sao Paulo
Metropolitan Train Company (CPTM); and
(c) contribute toward the reduction of noise and air pollution from
transport sources.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
identification (Executive Project Summary)            Dcmber 5, 1990l
Preparation                                           Apil 1, 1991l
Appraisal                                             July 1, 1991
Negotiations                                          February 18, 1992
Board presentation                                    March 31, 1992
Signing                                               September 3, 1992
Effectiveness                                         February 3, 1993
Project completion                                    March 31, 1998
Loan closing                                          March 31, 1998
Table 4: World Bank Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ Millions)
Appraisal Estimate          20.0    55.0    95.0    115.0   126.0   N/A          N/A
Revised Appraisal Estimate   N/A     N/A       9.5     85.2    126.0   N/A       N/A
l Actual                     0.0      0.0     16.6    51.4    81.5   112.6   126.0
Actual as % of estimate      0.0      0.0      18       45       65      89       100
Actual as % of revised       0.0      0.0      18       60       65      89       100
Date of final disbursement    N/A    N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    7/16/98
1. The original project closing date June 30, 1996



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I%eyiuplendi.ntortindicators in SAR            Appraisal Estimate                  Actil:
Track/Station Rehabilitation
Improvement of drainage systems along rail lines         13 km                           7 km
Bridge rehabilitation                                   6 bridges                      5 bridges
Culvert rehabilitation                                    43 m                           43 m
Pedestrian overpasses (rehabilitated or new)'       3 new overpasses               4 new overpasses
4 rehabilitated overpasses     5 rehabilitated overpasses
Retaining Walls                                         1,200 m2                        1,200 m2
Fences along right-of-ways                              6,800 m                         6,800m
Superstructure replacement works (e.g. sleepers,         244 km                          95km
fastening, ballast, and rail switches)
Passenger station modernization                        19 stations                     19 stations
Rolling Stock
EMU Rehabilitation                                      12 EMUs                        12 EMUs
EMU Modernization                                       37 EMUs                        38 EMUs
New diesel locomotives                                8 locomotives                  8 locomotives
Supply of rail grinding machine                            ---                           I unit
Supply of locotractors                                     ---                          2 units
Maintenance depots                                      2 depots                        2 depots
Equipment repair and testing laboratory                I laboratory                    Canceled
Signaling
Track circuit reinstallation                             31 km                           14 km
Point machines                                        51machines                      60 machines
ATS installation                                         85 km                           85 km
Signaling installation with two RFFSA lines           Two rail lines                 Two rail lines
Centralized traffic control systems                      130 km                          85 km
Cable replacement                                        54 km                           74 km
Centralized traffic control systems replacement          130 km                          85 km
Telecommunications system                            overall network                 overall network
Track to train radio system                             14 stations                   31 stations
336 movable stations (trains)
Loudspeaker systems                                    26 stations                     17 stations
114 trains                     350 trains
1. Modified after the July 1994 Midterm Review
Sources: CPTM, Bank Staff



22
Table 6A. Project Operational Indicators,
1O 1.99               1992       1993       1994       1995      1996       1997       June          End of
(DMe                                                                                    1998         Project
year) ,                                                                          _                  (planned)
Daily Passenger Traffic    883,000   741,000   694,700    627,000   635,000   669,000   632,000   770,000          796,000         830,000
Headway (minutes)             N/A        N/A        N/A    Min. 10    Min. 10    Min. 10    Min. 10    Min. 10      Min.10          Min. 8
Max. 12   Max. 12   Max. 12   Max. 12   Max. 12    Max. 12             Max. 10
EMU Availability (%)2           79        76         71         70         67         63         61         62          72              87
EMU Utilization (%)2            98        92         95         93         94         92         91         90          90              98
Souirces: CPTM, Bank Staff
1. Modified at the July 1994 nmid-ter-m review
2. 1990 data was not available; July 1991 data was used.
Table 6B. Project Financial Indicators'
1990       199        1992       1993       1994       1995      1996       1997        July         End of
(Base                                                                                   19982        Project
year)                          _____ _____           ___    __(planned)
Daily Paying Passenger     707,000   729,000    528,000   484,000    444,000    457,000   474,000   578,000        597,000         735,000
Traffic 
Evasion Rate (%)j             11%         6%        24%       24%        24%        24%        22%        25%         25%              6%
Average Tariff (constant      0.11       0.17       0.21       0.30       0.47      0.64       0.73       0.79        0.79            0.37
1991 US$)
Operational Revenues          23.3       33.8       49.7       42.4       67.4       97.2     109.5      118.2        53.0            85.9
(US$M)
Non-Operational                0.5        4.0        9.5        3.6        3.2       2.1         1.9       3.6         2.7             4.8
Revenues (US$M)                                                    .
Total Revenues (US$M)         23.8       37.8       59.2       42.9       65.6      92.3      103.3      121.8        55.7            90.7
'Total Operational Costs     100.7       91.9      105.8       92.6      115.8      155.4     167.2      213.4        102.7          130.0
(US$M)
Percent (%) of Personnel      65%        N/A        N/A        70%       65%        58%        61%        57%         51%             64%
Costs as a part of
Operational Costs
Staff (# of employees)       4085       4085       3841       3673       3605       3460       3527       3684        4283           4457
Subsidies (USSM)2             76.9       54.1       46.6       46.6      45.2       56.1       55.8       91.6        47.0            36.3
Operating Subsidies as %    76.4%      58.9%e     44.0%      52.3%      40.1%      36.6%     33.7%        43.7        47.0          40.2%
of Income
Working Ratio                 4.23       2.43       N/A        2.18       1.72       1.60     I1.53        1.75      1.84            1.40
Sources: CPTM, Bank Staff
1. Modified at the July 1994 mid-tern review
2. Finiancial data through May 1998
3. For 1997-98 fare evasion percentage consists of 15% (fare evasion)-and 10% (loss of revenues)



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
study                 ~~~~~~~Purpose as defined at     Status            Impact of study
=                                  =appaisal/redefined
Decentralization and Financial Management Studies
CBTU Decentralization Study          Elaboration of action plans to transfer the  Completed  Decentralization study delineated the
operations and ownership of CBTU                  required actions and drafted the legal
subdivisions to their respective States.          agreements for transferring CBTU-
SP assets to Sao Paulo State.
Manpower Development and             Review the organization of each of the  Completed  Study recommendations were
Organization Restructuring Plan      new systems by functional area, provide           partially implemented.
job descriptions for each of the main
posts, and a strategy to rationalize staff.
Financing Mechanisms                 Define the general options for financing    Completed  The State has accepted some of the
urban transport, covering operational            recommendations of the study, and is
deficit and capital costs. Develop an             preparing to draft law that is to be
action plan and timetable for                     submitted to the State legislature
implementing study recommendations.
Costs, Tariffs, and Financial        Determine the fixed and variable costs of   Completed  Consultant  completed  the  cost
Management Study                     CPTM                                              modules.
Maintenance Services Outsourcing     Identify options for contracting out  Completed  Study objectives were incorporated
Study.                               maintenance and other services to private         into the Rail Services Concession
contractors.                                     IOptions Study
Institutional Strengthening Studies
Project Management Contract          Supervise project implementation to    Completed  Monitored implementation.
ensure achievement of project objectives
and assist in determining medium and
long-term investment priorities.
Monitoring/Supervision Study         Provide an independent assessment of   Completed  Assisted CBTU/CPTM  management
project monitoring and progress in                on key structural decisions.
achieving project objectives
Management Information System        Install a management information system    Completed  MIS has allowed the mapping of
with the appropriate hardware/software            processes at the DFD level and is
within CBTU-SP to support the daily               being expanded for the entire system.
management and administration of the
urban rail systems.
Private Sector Partnerships Study    Identify approaches for developing and    Cancelled   Study objectives were incorporated
expanding the private sector partnerships         into the Rail Services Concession
in urban rail transit operations.                 Options Study
Rail Services Concession Options     Examine the options, financing         Completed  Led to workshop on concession
Studyl                               mechanisms, and legal/regulatory                  options, attended by CPTM and
requirements for the concession of urban          CBTU representatives. Provided
transit lines to the private sector.              conception framework for urban rail
line concessions being supported by
the Barra Funda -Roosevelt Project
1. Added to the project during implementation.



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (cont.)
7.dy              .Purpose as defined at                      Status      -      Impact of study-
__'_'______________.___._.________.... - -   appraisalUredefined              ._-_
Non-Operational Revenues Study      Identify possible commercial sources of    Cancelled   Study objectives were incorporated
income to complement operational                  into the Rail Services Concession
activities, e.g. advertising in stations and      Options Study
other available areas.
Technical Supervision              Supervision for the execution of civil  Completed  Technical supervision undertaken by
works and related services for urban              consulting firms with the necessary
railways, stations, signaling. telecom            technical proficiency and expertise in
equipment, and rolling stock                      each component.
Public Image Study                 Identify approaches to improve public   Cancelled  Study   objectives  were  partially
image of the commuter rail and interaction        incorporated into the Rail Services
with users and potential users                    Concession Options Study. Remainder
cancelled
Staff Training                     Provide training to CBTU-SP and later  Completed  The development of further training
CPTM staff at all levels to strengthen their      materials is necessary. Subcomponent
capacity.                                         to be completed during the second
semester of 1998.
Stock Inventory Management Study   Determine approaches and install a      Completed  Implementation of recommendations
computerized system to optimize                   is underway. CPTM is bidding out the
equipment and resource use.                       contract for the specialized software
use to administer equipment and
material usage.
Multimodal Studies
Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region Master  Identify urban transit needs for the Sao  Completed  Study funded by the State of Sao
Transportation Plan                Paulo Metropolitan Region                          Paulo. The study has served to
improve intermodal linkages in the
Sao Paulo Metropolitan area.
Route Rationalization (CMTC) Study    Review and recommend options to      Completed  Study funded by the State of Sao
rehabilitate, integrate, and expand the urban     Paulo. The study has served to better
rail network and integrate and minimize           link bus lines with commuter rail and
duplication of bus services.                      subway operations.
Regulatory Study                   Review the regulatory framework to allows  Cancelled  Study objectives partially incorporated
concessions, permissions in the MSP and           into CBTU-Bus Service Integration
SPMR and facilitate implementation of             Study. Remainder cancelled because
recommendations of the Route                      the municipality did not participate in
Rationalization Study                             the loan as originally envisaged.
CBTU-Bus Service Integration Study    Evaluate options for improving bus to rail   Completed  Elaborated options for modifying the
integration in the Sao Paulo area.                legal framework and operational
practices that would assist in better
integrating bus and rail services and
accommodating demand for such
services in the Sao Paulo region.
FEPASA-CBTU Integration Study      Define options for integrating FEPASA   Completed  Objectives were incorporated into
._______ _    with the decentralized CBTU-SP  _ __  CBTU-Bus Service Integration Study



25
Table 8A: Project Costs
Category             Appraisal Estimate       Revised Estimate         Actual Estimate
(US$M)                  (US$M)                   (US$M)
Local   Loan    Total   Local   Loan    Total   Local   Loan    Total
Institutional Strengthening  3.607   6.806  10.413   2.991   5.280   8.271   4.856   3.736   8.592
Project monitoring          0.253   0.473   0.726   0.271   0.397   0.669   1.713   1.438   3.151
Studies                     3.053   5.699   8.752   2.648   3.882   6.530   3.025   2.234   5.259
Training                    0.301   0.634   0.935   0.072   1.000   1.072   0.118   0.064   0.182
Civil Works                129.256 100.804 230.060 151.984 102.720 254.704 162.976 121.864 284.840
Civil works                 28.159  15.297  43.456  87.341  38.000 125.341  68.994  36.506 105.500
Materials                   4.194  13.834  18.028   7.277  12.181  19.458   3.554   8.141   11.695
Equipment                   52.671  29.649  82.320   5.269   8.819  14.088  13.395  12.585  25.980
Mechanical works           40.222  38.874  79.096  48.877  39.000  87.877  73.552  62.210 135.762
Supervision                 4.010   3.150   7.160   3.220   4.720   7.940   3.481   2.422   5.903
Total Base Cost            132.863  107.610 240.473  154.975 108.000 262.975 167.832 125.600 293.432
Physical Contingency        13.170  10.083  23.253   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.00
Price Contingency           9.283   7.870  17.153   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000
Unallocated                                          0.000  18.000  18.000   0.000   0.000   0.000
Total                      155.316 125.563 280.879 154.975 126.000 280.975 167.832 125.600 293.432
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                       Appraisal Estimate              Actual Estimate
(US$ M)                       (US$ M)
Local Costs  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
Government                                113.3       42.0    155.3    150.4    17.4    167.8
Bank                                        ---       125.6   125.6    106.1    19.5    125.6
Total                                     113.3       167.6   280.9    256.5    36.9    293.4



26
Table 9A: Economic Evaluation'
Pre-Appraisal                                           Post-Project
Corridor               ERR    NPV (US$         B/C       ERR (%)    NPV (US$           B/C
(%)      million)                              million)
No/Se, Direct Benefits              46.0          179.7         2.6     18.4         62.5          1.81
No/Se without Externalities2        N/A            N/A         N/A      20.5         87.8          2.14
Leste Tronco, Direct Benefits       49.0           82.7        2.1      14.8         17.5          1.31
Leste Tronco without Externalities2  N/A           N/A        N/A       17.3         32.4          1.58
Leste Variante, Direct Benefits     48.0           54.8         2.0     13.6         8.8           1.22
Leste Variante without Externalities2    N/A       N/A        N/A       16.0         18.7          1.47
Total SAo Paulo, Direct Benefits    46.0         309.8          2.2     16.4         88.8          1.51
Total SAo Paulo with Externalities    N/A          N/A         N/A      18.6        138.9          1.80
1.     Useful life: 20 years; Discounted Rate 11%/o/year.
2.     Project externalities include the reduction of accidents, decreased fatal accidents, and air pollution savings
Table 9B: Sensitivity Analysis
% Change    ERR %         NPV (US$ Million)    B/C Ratio
@11%             @11%
BASE CASE Excludes salary, wages, electricity and                  16.35%            87.97             1.51
materials, benefits, investments, and
externalities
CASE I      Salaries & Wages                           + 10%       15.28%            69.34             1.36
- 10%       17.41%           106.60             1.69
CASE 2      Electricity and Materials                  + 10%       15.32%            70.03             1.37
- 10%       17.36%           105.91             1.68
CASE 3      Salaries & Wages/                          + 10%       14.21%            51.40             1.24
Electricity and Materials                 + 10%
Salaries & Wages/                         + 10%        16.31%           87.28              1.50
Electricity and Materials                 - 10%
Salaries & Wages/            .            - 10%        18.39%           124.55             1.91
Electricity and Materials                 - 10%
CASE 4      Investments                                + 10%       15.38%            75.95             1.41
- 10%       17.45%           99.99              1.62
CASE 5      Benefits; Investments, Salaries & Wages    - 10%       12.93%            31.17             1.15
- 10%        N/A              N/A               N/A
CASE 6      Deferred of Benefits to the Fourth Year     N/A        16.93%            94.34             1.54
CASE 7      Externalities (accidents and air pollution  N/A        18.61%           138.15             1.80
savings) 100% included
CASE 8      Deferred of Benefits to the Fourth Year    + 10%       14.84%            63.69             1.31



'I'abic 91: Scisitivity Awialysis
SAO PAULO SYSTEM
MAIN OUTPUT                                       ERR(%/o)     NPV(US$*10)   B/C
Direct Benefits                                   16.35%        87,971.30     1.51
With Externalities                                 18.61%        138,147.96     1.80
BASIC INPUTS - PARAMETERS                 SYMBOL           UNIT          VALUE
Year                                                                       1         2         3          4          5          6          7          8
Year                                                                      1993     1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1999      2000
Investment                          I          USSxIO'                      2.14     31.06      42.67      43.02      41.24      18.39      0.00       0.00
Investment which will be Avoided             IA          USSxI0                       0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Year                                                                       6         7          8         9          10         11         12        13
Year                                                                      1998     1999       2000       2001       2002      2003       2004       2005
Present Demand                       Dc           pass/day                    940.00   940.00    940.00    940.00    940.00    940.00    940.00    940.00
Average Trip Length (Train)                L              km            18.70
Average Bus Route Length                 Clc             km            30.52
%  )emand Captured by Train                Fc                                        77%      88%        97%        91%        100%      100%       100%       100%
Train Capacity                       0           pass/day                   1,036.00  1,036.00   1,061.00   1,260.00   1,260.00   1,260.00   1,260.00   1,260.00
Average Income of Bus Users               Rmo             mw             5.00
Average Income of Train Users              Rsm            mw              3.10
Renewal Factor for Bus                  FR                             1.10
Bus Commercial Speed - Peak Period            Vo            km/h            15.00
Train Commercial Speed                   Vt            kmth            40.50
ReductionofWaitingTime                    Rte            min                       0.035    0.035      0.035      0.035      0.035      0.035      0.035      0.035
Bus Operating Cost                    Cop          US$/km            0.71
Road Maintenance Cost                   Ccr          US$/km          0.0004
Road Operation Management Cost               Cor          US$/kin         0.0004
Op+Mtce Salaries and Wages - Basic Cost        CPom          USSx I06        19.4400
Present % Op+Mtce Staff Costs             Pomat            %                        63.64%   63.64%    63.64%    63.64%    63.64%    63.64%    63.64%    63.64%
% Op+Mtce Salaries and Wages               Pom              %                         70%       70%       70%        70%        70%        70%        70%        70%
Unit Cost (Op + Mtce) Staff              Cup          US$/pass         0.0657
Unit Cost for Electrical Energy           Cuee          US$/c.km         0.1696
PresentCarkkm                      Pckm         c.kmx I03                   4,495.16  4,495.16   4,495.16   4,495.16   4,495.16   4,495.16   4,495.16   4,495.16
CorrectionFactorCar. km                 Fckm                                      1.0735    1.0735     1.0810     1.3442     1.3442    1.3442     1.3442     1.3442
SpareandMaterials-BasicCost                Cms           US$xt0                       15        15        15         15         15         IS         15         15
Correction Factor for Cost of Materials With Project  Mcp                                      1.1       1.1        1.1        1.1       1.1        I.1        1.1        1.1
Correction Factor for Cost of Materials Without Project  Msp                                     1.2      1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2       1.2        1.2
Unit Cost for Spares and Materials          Cums         US$/c.km         0.2780
% of Other Costs- Present                Ocsp                                     11.50%   t1.50%      11.50%     11.50%    11.50%     11.50%     11.50%    11.50%
%ofOtherCosts                        Poc                                      13.50%   13.50%     13.50%     13.50%     13.50%     13.50%     13.50%     13.50%
Residual Value of Investment               Vri                          6.73%
Useful Days/Year                      Nd            days            300
Minimum Wage,Without Taxes                  SM            USS              68
Minimum Wage With Taxes                   Vsm            US$             150
Bus Capacity                       CV           pass/bus           75
Number of Working Hours/Month                Hm              h              180
% of Total Time Waste by Active Econ. Pop.     %/Tpea                           50%
% of Demand that Use Time Benefit            %/.Dt                          30%
Accident Costt 1000 pass. km - Train          CAt      US$11000pas.km       0.06
Accident Cost/ 1000 pass. km - Bus           CAb       USS/IOOOpas.km       2.40.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Text Reference    Covenant  Status    Original        Revised                         Description of Covenant                      Comments
Type              Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
LOAN              3.01             3         C                                Borrower committed to the objectives of the project and is making the
__________________   ___________             _____________   proceeds ofthe  loan  available  to  CBTU
3.02            5         C                                Procurement taking place in accordance with Bank guidelines. Standard
bidding documents and letters of invitation to consultants being utilized.
3.04            4         C                                Borrower to provide needed funds for the project
3.05            5         C        6/30(93      7/31/94    Borrower to exchange views with the Bank (mid-term review)
3.06            5         C        1/31/92                 Congress to approve a bill of law to effect the ownership transfer  Law approved in August 1993
CBTU              2.06             5                 1/31/92      12/31/95   CBTU to carry out the training program and exchange views every
PROJECT                                                                         December
2.09 (a)          9         C       12/31/93     10/31/94   CBTU to employ a project monitoring auditor
2.09 (b)          9         C       12/31/93                 CBTU to retain a project consultant for supervision
22.10 (a)         9         C                                CBTU to prepare quarterly reports
2.11            9         C                                CBTU to establish and maintain management information system.
2.12 (a)          2        CD                     10/11/93    CBTU to prepare and put into effect an action plan including tariff increases
and a set of operational measures in order to reach an operating ratio not
higher than one.
4.01             I        C        5/31/94                 CBTU to hire an independent auditor and send audited reports to the Bank                                 Q
not later than May of each year                                                                         to
Schedule A. l (a)     5        C        3/31/93                 CBTU to complete a study and action plan.
Schedule A. I (b)     5        C        3/31/93                 CBTU to complete a study determining the long run variable cost.
Schedule A. I (c)     5        C        6/30/93                 CBTU to complete a study and action plan for setting a cost accounting
I________________                      ____________               system     and   M IS.
Schedule A.1 (d)      5         C       6/30/93       3/31/94    CBTU to complete a study and action plan on the financing mechanisms to
cover operating deficits and capital investments.
Schedule A. 1 (e)     5        C        6/30/93                 CBTU to prepare a contract plan between CBTU-SP and Sao State
Schedule A.2 (a)      5        C        6/30/93                 CBTU and Sao Paulo State to prepare and implement a manpower
development and organization plan for CBTU-SP.
Schedule A.2 (b)      5        C        6/30/93                 CBTU and Sao Paulo State to prepare and implement an action plan to
improve the management of stocks for CBTU-SP.
Schedule A.2 (c)      5        C        6/30/93                 CBTU and Sao Paulo State to prepare and implement an action plan to
subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private sector.
Schedule A.2 (d)      5        C        6/30/93                 CBTU and Sao Paulo State to prepare and implement an action and revenue
plan through promotion of CBTU-SP station space, advertising, and real
estate
Schedule A.2 (e)      5        C        6/30/93                 CBTU and Sao Paulo State to prepare an action plan to market CBTU-SP
Iimage
Status    C       -         Complied with                                  SOON    -          Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD                Compliance after Delay                          CP       -        Complied with Partially
NC                Not Complied with                               NYD      -        Not Yet Due



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Agreement       Text Section     Covenant   Status     Original      Revised                         Description of Covenant                                   Comments
Type               Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
CBTU        Schedule A.3 (a)      5          C        6/30/93      6/30/94    CBTU and Sao Paulo State to prepare a study and action plan to integrate
Project                                                                        CBTU-SP's system and the FEPASA metropolitan trains
Schedule A.3 (b)      5         C        6/30/93       6/30/94    CBTU and SAo Paulo State to prepare a study and action plan to integrate
CBTU-SP's and the Sao Paulo Metro system.
Schedule A.3 (c)      5        CD        12/31/93                CBTU and Sao Paulo State to complete a study to update a proposed
master plan for integration of transport services in the metropolitan region
of Sao Paulo
Schedule A.4 (a)     5         CD        3/31/93                 CBTU and Sao Paulo State to complete a training action plan of CBTU-SP
organization.
Schedule B (a)      10        CD                                 Borrower to carry out the rehabilitation component according to the agreed
schedule indicated in Table 1.
sAo PAULO          2.05 (a)          IC         C        3/30/95                 Sao Paulo State shall establish ajudicially independent public corporation.
STATE
2.05 (b)         10         C                                 Sao Paulo State shall execute agreements (Contract Plans) with CBTU-SP
2.06 (c)         10         C                                 Sao Paulo State shall exchange views with the Bank on annual training
program
2.09 (a)          5         C        3/31/93                  Sao Paulo State shall prepare an action plan for the transfer, integration,
and consolidation of FEPASA metropolitan railway.
Status   C        -        Complied with                                  SOON   -           Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD       -        Compliance after Delay                        CP        -        Complied with Partially
NC       -        Not Complied with                             NYD    -           Not Yet Due
Covenant Type:
I   =   Accounts/audits
2   =   Financial performance revenue generation from beneficiaries
3   =   Flow and utilization of project funds
4   =   Counterpart funding
5   =   Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6   =   Environmental covenants
7   =   Involuntary resettlement
8   =   Indigenous people
9   =   Monitoring, review, and reporting
10  =   Project implementation not covered by categories 1 -9
11  =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocations
12  =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/budgetary/institutional action
13  =   Other



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
(Not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle          Planned                     Revised                   Actual
Weeks           US$           Weeks        US$    Weeks         US$ 000
Through Appraisal        N/A            N/A            N/A          N/A       71.6           254.8
Appraisal-Board         N/A            N/A             N/A         N/A       39.4           137.2
Board-Effectiveness       N/A            N/A            N/A         N/A       22.3             78.5
Supervision           N/A            N/A            N/A         N/A        58.3           199.4
Completion            N/A            N/A            N/A         N/A         4.5            20.0
Total               N/A            N/A            N/A         N/A      196.1           689.9
Table 13: Bank Resources and Missions
Stage of Project Cycle  Month/ Number of  Days    Specialized             Performance Rating           Types of
Year    Persons    in        Staff Skills                                     Problems
field    represented
Implementation    Development
.____________________  _______    __________  ______    ______________   Progress  (IP)  Objectives  (DO)
Through Appraisal
1             10/90       2     1 20         UP, TP            N/A              N/A            N/A
2              1/91       2        14        UP, TP            N/A               N/A           N/A
3              4/91       6         78    UP. TP, RE, FA        N/A              N/A            N/A
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
1              7/91       6        90   UP, TP, RE, FA         N/A               N/A            N/A
2             10/91       1         3          UP              N/A              N/A            N/A
Board Approval
Through Effectiveness
11/92      2         10       TP, RE              I                 I            N/A
Supervision
5/93                 12       TP. RE              2                2
2               10/93       3        6       TP, RE. FA           2                2             PMP
3               2/94       2         6        TP, RE              2                2             Pp
(Midterm Review)     7/94        2        4         TP, RE             S                S            PP, FP
5               7/95        2        6        TP, RE              S                S            PP, FP
6               2/96        2        6         TP, RE             S                S            PP, FP
7              10/96        1        4          TS                S                S            PP, FP
8              12/96        1        3          TS                S                S            PP, FP
9               2/97        I        3          TS                S                S                     I
10              7/97        I        4          TS                S                S                    I
I11             2/98        I        3          TS                S                S
Completion                                                                                                  I
Total           N/A        37       272         N/A              N/A              N/A            N/A
Staff Skills: FA = Financial Analyst; RE = Rail Engineer; TP = Transport Planner; TS = Transport Specialist; UP = Urban Planner
Problems: CLC: Compliance with covenants; FP: Financial Performance; TA: Technical Assistance Progress; PMP: Project Mgt. Progress PP:
Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress



31
APPENDIX A
Sbo Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
(CBTU-BTRD-b
ICR MISSION
Scptember 28. 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.                 A World Bank Mission led by Jorge Rebelo (Principal Transport
Specialist) visited Sao Paulo to undertake a two day visit to obtain the feedback from
the State of Sao Paulo and CPTM on this project and check the progress in the system
since the last ICR mission which took place in February 1998. The mission wishes to
record its appreciation to Mr. Miguel Kozma, Uudersecretary of StLte for Metpolitan
Transport, Mr. Jose Roberto Rosa, President of CPTM, Mr. Vitor Noronha, Technical
Director of CPTM, Mr. Sergio K. Rodrigues, PIU coordinator, and other staff of CPTM
ror the cooperatioi auld countesies extended to the mission. A list of participants in the
meetings is attached as Annex l.
2:.                The contents of this Aide Memoire describe the progress made
since the February 1998 mission and agreements made, and are subject to endorsemnt
by the management of the World Bank in Washington, D.C.
General Views
3.                 There is a general consensus that the project was successful in
decentralizng the system and in creating CPTM. There is also a consensus that the
project has poised CPTM for better integration with other modes and for a potential
concession. There was agreement that the institutional achievements of the project were
significant to restructure the sector and to prepare it for long-term sustainabiliry. Most of
the comments from CPlM's staff dealt with the infiastructure and equipment
component. In hindsight, the participants claim that -the re-allocation of fuinds proposed
by CPTM during the mid-tenn review should have concentrated more on repairing the
track, which deteriorated heavily in the three years after the loan was signed fbr lack of
routine maintenance, aid on improvingB the catenar System which is very unreliable.
Indeed, there is a consensus that with the problem of rolling stock resolved or at least
under control, the problem would now be: X improve the infrastructure. Despite the
money allocated for infiastructure in the project, only one third of the kms were
rchabilitated because, when the contracts were initiated, the deterioration was such that
2 times more had to be spent per km of track than originally anticipated. One participant
indicated that because the bidding. of infrastructure separated the serviku from the
material, there were a number of problems because sometimes the services were
awarded, but the matenials were not there on tine due to delays in delivery or judicial
litigation or customs delays. There were also some complaints that some of the
contrmcts jf the: inrrastructure component were out of sink with the needs. This was
aftribilted to a zentralized approach by CBTU decision-makers who were in Rio and did
not work as closely as desirable with the CBTU-SP staff. Some staff also indicated that
the CBTU local office had little autonomy to act when needed and had to contact the
hcad office even when for minor changes.



32
Fare Evasion
4.                 It was conuirmed that at present with the deployment of the
rehabilitated fleet pius the used trains bought from Spain that the capacity offerd has
incrased. When asked about the fare cvssion it was confirmed tha C?TM hired
consultants who measured the actual fare evasion in 58 stations. In addition, to the
average figure of 15% which could be as high as 30% in some stations and as low as 5%
in others, there is also ticket fraude estimated at 1IO/* which is under investiation. In
addition there are compulsory gratuities of about 7Wo . So, the total number of total
pwssengers transported should be the numbcr of payiag passengers divided by one  in
the sum of fkre evasion, raudc and grztuities. All CBTU provided figures must be
adjusted and the number of passengers transported per day are close to 700,000. This
seems to be in better agreement wiEh the figums from the Director of Operations which
indicate about 71 ,000 in an average day. CPT?'s president indicated that he is taking
steps to install automated ticketing machines and he has hired about 1,200 guards.
However, recently there has been a number of hold ups in stations and the security
guards arc now controlling both fare evasion and theft. It is possible that because of the
assaults that fare evasion has increased slightly. There is also a consess that the fare is
too high especially in the ofr-peak hours and his is probably inciting fre avasion. CP?Tf
is negotiaiiig with the State lower res for the off-peak.
Level of Service
5.           There appears to be so agreemeant that the lcv  of svprovided
increased considerably and this is reflected in the peiodic public survey undertaken by
Gallup. The problem now is to guarantee reiabiity. The number of fatalities decreased
from 160 to 2 and not 100 to 2. The hired guards wcre also responsible fbr the succes in
reducing the fatalities.
Institutional Component
6. CPrM agreed tha2 ther= were less thian desired counterparts to absorb the results
of some of the studies under.alcen although more than 60% of the reconmendations of
the studies were followed. One asked why not to seize the opportunity to concess3on out
the system, the Undersecretary indicated that -the Stat had decded that it did not want
to go into a concession without improving the condition of the system for fear that a
concesion would collapse.
Next Steps
7.    The next immediate steps are to correct the basic passenger statistics and the
financial ratios as discussed during the mission to reflect the actual statisics of the ecx-
CBTU part of CPTM instead of the whole network. In addition, the nission undertook
to discuss with C  I'U the status of some of the points raised bY CPTM about sotc
equipment delivered. New statistics ae atLached as Annex 1.
Sao Paulo, September 30, 1998



33
Jorgc M. Rebelo                               Sea4o K Rod nge
woimBuw
ANOUPMO



34
Mlssfo de Setembro de 1998, Banico Mundial
Evento: Reuniso na EstaqSo da Luz [BIRD I Loan 3457 - BRJ
Pa,rtcipentes.
i  E   m 7tmS
V;tor M. dce Almida Noronha  DOM      _          d
waldir Qujilc                DOM/SPI    Superintandente Prvduc4o Induamal
jose flicarao Fazoie F-tmzra    DOMISMA    Superlntetnente c3e Manutendto
Jose Cartos Nestart          DOM/SOP    S
Sergio Henrigue S. Neves-     OMfMAM    Gerente Manuten_8 Material Roc_ nte
Evaddo Jose dos Rets Femira    OOM/MAS  IGrnt. Manut Sit. Eletro-Efetrnicos
Flvivo de Aricirede Muller  IDEOISOM    Supflmntfdenlt* as oras e MAoftgefls
Cleanto Pereinra aos Sanios  DAF/SOF    Sumnmen ente operaq4es Financeims (j
Wagner Baoiista Caoelletti   |  OAF/OpFO    Asstent. Tcnico  2ramnt0
Sergio K. Roc rigues         P R/APR      Assesor da Presidencla
(1 interino
3So Paulo, 28 de setembm de 1998



35
APPENDIX B
CBTU
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Borrower Summary of the Project and Sector Action Plan
Loan Agreement no 3457-BR
Preface
This is the final report on the Sao Paulo Urban Transport Decentralization Project, entered between CBTU
- Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, the Government of the State of Sao Paulo and the Federal Government of
Brazil, and representing a US$ 126 million World Bank loan, signed on September 3, 1992.
The loan closed on March 31, 1998, 21 months later the originally agreed completion date on June 30,
1996.
The last loan disbursement was made on June 30, 1998, and all of the initially requested funds were
disbursed.



36
Summary Evaluation
Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
CBTU - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Loan Agreement N 3457-BR
Brazil
Introduction
The Federal Government, in its capacity as country wide operator and administrative agency for the
existing urban rail transport networks, and in compliance with constitutional rulings establishing that local
authorities are to be responsible for the management and operation of urban transport, developed the Metropolitan
Transport Decentralization Program to implement the transfer of said networks to their respective local
administration authorities. The World Bank was asked to support the program with a loan and has been participating
in the Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro projects, and more recently in the projects for Belo Horizonte, Recife and
Salvador.
The Project was submitted to the IBRD in October, 1990, and had its final version approved in March,
1992.



37
Project Objectives
In September, 1992, CBTU, the Government of the State of Sao Paulo and the Brazilian Federal
Government signed a US$ 126 million Loan Agreement LN-3457-BR with the World Bank, with a US$ 155 million
counterpart to be supplied by the Federal Government, for a total project cost of US$ 281 million, for the services of
rehabilitation, construction and acquisition of materials end equipment necessary for the rehabilitation of the Sao
Paulo Urban Rail Network, comprising corridors: (a) Santos-Jundiai, and (b) Linha Leste (Tronco and Variante),
and the preparation of studies aimed at the institutional and managerial development of same.
The program had the following objectives: (a) to support the Federal Government in its efforts to transfer
the CBTU-SP subdivision to the State of Sao Paulo in order to enhance its management and operations; (b) to
introduce institutional, organizational and financial policy reforms to assure its long-term financial sustainability
(including cost-efficiency gains, improved multimodal integration, expanded capacity, and substantial reduction in
subsidies), and (c) to contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental improvement (facilitating access to work,
decreasing their trip time to work, the reduction of congestion, and the reduction of accidents and fatalities through
the provision of safer and more comfortable rail transport). The Program should contribute to the implementation of
a rail mass public transport structural network in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area, and would gain a higher share of
participation in the public transport market, by providing high quality services, specially to the low income
population.
The development of the CBTU-SP IBRD Project can be considered of great importance to permit CBTU to
accomplish its mission of promoting the transfer of the urban rail networks. The implementation of this project was
a pilot for the design of other decentralization projects in Rio, Belo Horizonte and Recife.



38
Experience Gained in the Implementation and Results Obtained
The project was developed in two broad components: the physical component, comprising the execution of
a set of works, services and the supply of materials considered vital in order to rehabilitate the Sao Paulo Rail
Transport Network, so that the new operating agency could operate the system, at the same time as said agency
would be in a position to be able to expand the network in the future, and the institutional component, which aim
was that of providing the new operating agency with a set of techniques in the areas of administration, finance,
operation and expansion of urban transport networks that would contribute to the development of the network
operation.
During the initial stages of the Project, institutional activities were developed by the Government of the
State of Sao Paulo, such as the formation of CPTM - Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos, in May, 1992,
and by the Federal Government, such as the approval and sanction of Federal Law n 8693/93, authorizing the
transfer of the administration of urban rail transport networks to the states and the convening of the General
Meetings for the transfer of CBTU shares to the Union, and later from the latter to CPTM. This set of institutional
activities resulted in the celebration of the transfer of the Sao Paulo urban rail system from the Union to the State of
S3o Paulo and the beginning of the administration of said network by CPTM, in May, 1994.
The program was expected to be implemented in five years (1992 to 1996), and had its completion date set
for June 30, 1996, which was later extended for one year and finally agreed to be on March 31,1998.
The main reasons for the implementation of the program to have been extended to a further 21 month
period were as follows:                                                                       +
- institutional issues that resulted in a slow-up for around 9 months between the date set for the beginning
of the services (May 30, 1992) and the effective date of the beginning of the services (February, 1993);
- institutional issues that caused delays to the process of transfer of CBTU to the State. Amongst the latter,
the approval of Federal Law n 8693/93 for the decentralization of the urban rail transport services which



39
resulted in longer periods of time for the implementation of the necessary "legal/administrative
framework";
issues in respect of the mode of procurement of the supply of track materials, which at the time
established that the supply of materials for the permnanent way upgrading services would be the object of
specific bidding processes other than the bidding processes for the execution of the services themselves.
Despite the managerial planning, said procedure has brought about various encumbrances to the Project
management, such as, for instance, the absence of bidders for certain materials; the inefficacy of the
contract for the supply of spring clips due to the fact that the prototype tests were not approved;
difficulty in obtaining import forms, etc.. These facts were contributing factors to the delay and even
impossibility to carry out some services part of the track rehabilitation sub-program;
legal issues arising out of the approval of the new Bidding Processes Law n 8666/93, of June 21, 1993,
that led to the review of all existing bidding documents and contracts at the time so that they would be in
accordance with the new law, which was also altered with the issuing of Law no 8883, of June 08, 1994;
legal and commercial issues in respect of the rolling stock sub-program, due to the economic-financial
fragile condition of local suppliers, which compromised the scope of physical and operational targets;
institutional issues that resulted in delayed implementation of the institutional program (studies) due to
successive reviews required by the different administrations to which CPTM was subjected after being
formed;
legal and commercial issues due to the conversion of contracts to the new Brazilian official currency, the
Real, from July, 1994, demanding the extension of deadlines for completion, and even the cancellation
of some contracts.
Besides, the deterioration in the rail network physical-operational conditions due to the absence of
investment since the eighties, the alterations in the urban transport market due to the lack of an intermodel



40
integration policy, and the explosion of the informal transport services (since 1994) compromised full attainment of
the targets set in the Sao Paulo urban rail transport network operational and financial areas.
Some of the program results are that the tariffs charged were substantially adjusted, and reached a higher
level than what was contemplated in the program targets, which resulted in high operational revenue.
The program has permitted the beginning of the reformulation of the management and operation of rail
transport services in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area, which is comprised in the object of the Federal Government
metropolitan rail transport decentralization project.
The loan agreement comprised, as the criteria for project performance evaluation, operational and financial
targets to be met following project implementation. The attainment of said targets was based on the intention to
provide greater capacity in terms of passengers carried, which can only be achieved if a higher number of trains are
made available. Yet, the rolling stock sub-program - the rehabilitation and updating of 50 EMUs - was the one
which contemplated object proved to be the most difficult to achieve. Rail industry capacity was, at the time the
project was being implemented, highly shaken by the almost complete absence of investments in this area. It came
to light that this industrial section is finding it very difficult to meet contract commitments in terms of deadlines for
supply, which caused a very long delay in delivering EMUs to service. To that is added the fact that the failure to
increase the offer of transport at the appraised time and the resulting drop in safety and reliability of the services
brought about the failure to meet the higher demand initially contemplated. If we were to make an appraisal of the
program as a whole, we would see that only at this time, with the completion of the civil works and of the systems,
the supply of the equipment and the introduction of new apparatus to the workshops, together with the higher
number of EMUs in service, confidence in the credibility of the system is being regained, and the targets set in the
Agreement are being met. This can already be seen with the reduced fare evasion rates and the increase in the
number of passengers carried, which signal the recovering tendency.
Due to its original characteristics, the program has represented a new policy model for the administration
of mass transport, with the development, during its course, of all methods and procedures to implement the required



41
legal/administrative model required for the development of similar programs being implemented by CBTU in the
other areas currently under its administration, including with the support of the World Bank in several of them.
Bank Performance
This program was the first project in which CBTU and the World Bank acted as partners. This latter entity
has always shown a very high level of interest and desire to cooperate in the development of the Project from the
initial identification mission of the Metropolitan Rail Transport Decentralization Project to the preparation of the
Staff Appraisal Report.
After signing the Loan Agreement and during the course of the program activities and up the its Date of
Completion such interest was made evident by:
- updating courses, seminars, talks and support materials to CBTU and government entities members in all
decision making areas;
- periodic project supervision missions following-up on project development, spotting errors,
recommending corrections, implementing the necessary intervening actions or cooperating in the quest for
solutions, as well as acknowledging what was right, so that it could be adopted as recommended procedures;
- prompt allocation of funds, whenever requested and justified by evidence, fundamental for the company
to be able to meet its financial obligations with suppliers and consultants, which certainly provides the needed
tranquillity for the administration of any type of project.
For all the above support given to CBTU, as shown by effective actions, our appraisal of the World Bank
performance can only be highly satisfactory.
There are three other projects in progress in partnership with the World Bank: Rio de Janeiro, Belo
Horizonte and Recife. Also at the appraisal stage there is the Salvador project, and at the identification stage the
Fortaleza project (2nd stage), and CBTU is of the opinion that, based on the support shown to the Sao Paulo project,
all of these projects have a good chance to succeed.



42
Borrower Performance
In the World Bank appraisal, submitted in the SAR, the main risks involved in the program were as
follows:
i - delays in the dialog among the three levels of government;
ii - the political reluctance to increase the fares, compromising the working ratio;
iii - possible delays in bidding processes;
iv - the availability of counterpart funds.
The risks mentioned in ii and iv did not materialize, and the program development rate goes beyond the
contemplated targets. Insofar as i is concerned the integration between the three levels of government, although not
formal due to political reasons, took place in an informal way especially between the State of Sao Paulo, the Sao
Paulo Municipality and the other municipalities of the region. There were several meetings held by these levels with
a pre-announced agenda and with published minutes. This is how Sao Paulo was able to reach decisions on the
integration between modes, the automated ticketing system, and the routes to be used by the Fura-fila, etc. And all
this was due to the CBTU project and by the gentle persuasion of the Bank. Now this consultation between three
levels of government is being formalized through the CAMARAS TEMATICAS. The risks associated with the
bidding processes did materialize in the form of delays - basically in the 1993/1994 period - and were equated after
that.
We must note that the capacity of the train network to start its rehabilitation at the same year as the start of
program implementation (1992) was overestimated. The level of programmed intervening actions was high and, in
order to meet the targets expected, it would have been necessary to implement a larger overall number of program
actions. On the other hand, the unforeseen delays gave rise to an acceleration of the deterioration of the system, the
rehabilitation of which was finally started in 1997, with the investments by the program and by other actions
implemented concurrently by the State administration.



43
Program Results Evaluation
An overall evaluation of the program depicts the level of attainment of the object thereof, as follows:
- support to the Transfer of CBTU-SP to the State of Sao Paulo. With the approval of law n 8693/93
which comprised the rules for the decentralization of urban rail transport in the country, and the development of the
program that has been helping and guiding the implementation of the entire legal/political/administrative set of tools
required, and that has permitted the implementation of the process of decentralization of the entire urban rail
network.
- the effective transfer of the services in a way that had never been seen before in Brazilian public
administration history, without discontinuing the services offered to users.
- the fortnation and merger into one company of the existing passenger rail services in Sao Paulo
Metropolitan Area, originally run by CBTU and Ferrovia Paulista S/A -FEPASA, which measure was recommended
since the late sixties, with a view to upgrading and reorganizing the SPMR urban rail services.
- the implementation of the new operating company - CPTM - with a dynamic and flexible operational
structure designed to meet the needs of the newly created institutional management policy in which the operation of
the services by concessions or in partnership with private enterprise are targets to be met.
- recommendations on the possibilities of concession of the metropolitan rail services in the SPMR, based
on the development of initial studies seeking to establish a new company, commercial and institutional effort
observing the transport section legislation and the prevailing economic conjuncture.
- the massive presence of data processing means implemented into CPTM, with a view to making the
administration more agile and to upgrade the level of efficiency, productivity and results thereof.
- arresting the network deterioration process, with the investments in infrastructure, system and rolling
stock, which permitted the rehabilitation of same to be started, with the offer of better quality transport services.
- the preparation of a plan for the recovery, modernization, reformulation and integration of the rail
networks, as a result of the investments in connection with other actions and intervening external activities
undertaken by the state administration via CPTM.



44
Summary of Benefits, Future Actions and Main Lessons Learned with the Project
CBTU believes that, in accordance with the Federal Government guidelines for the implementation of the
new management of decentralized operation proposed for the urban rail services, the CBTU-IBRD program was of
vital importance to permit the development of this proposition in a politically and financially viable way, without
losing sight of the need to provide adequate conditions for the new transferred networks operators to conduct an
economically and financially sustainable operation.
The study of causes and consequences of the errors and of the adequacy of this program are duly
documented, have at times been evaluated to exhaustion, and, therefore, resolved or sometimes shortcut, and the
history thereof has been recorded so that they will not be repeated, at least by this company administration.
The relationship with the Word Bank members was of great importance for the completion of this project.
The experience gained by said personnel in the implementation of large size projects throughout the world was
fundamental for the satisfactory development and completion of the Sao Paulo project.
We have established and are applying some project administration criteria for future projects, which are
lessons learned in the implementation of the Sao Paulo project, as follows:
- the adoption of single lots for the procurement of permanent way services, comprising the supply of
materials and services, with a view to avoiding the delays which occurred in this program,
- the evolution, wherever possible, onto turn-key type contracts, which contemplate all services and
supplies necessary for the commissioning of a railway section (infrastructure, track and systems);
- the adoption, at a.more sophisticated stage, of the networks transfer model, with private enterprise
participation, using the concession of operation and the injection of funds specially in the area of rolling stock,
considering the expected economic viability and financial sustainability which are expected of the urban rail
services decentralization projects. This is the solution, which has been adopted for the Salvador Urban rail services
decentralization project.



45
Flavio Mota Monteiro
CBTU/IBRD Project Coordinator
Approved
Luiz Otavio Mota Valadares
President of CBTU



