Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3457 BR
(Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 3, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3457 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 3, 1992, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) that in view of the provisions of the Brazilian Constitution 
governing public metropolitan urban transport and to improve the operational 
efficiency and financial performance of
suburban railways services and facilitate their integration with other transport 
services under state and local jurisdictions, the Borrower has decided to transfer the 
management and operations of the assets owned and operated by Companhia Brasileira de 
Trens Urbanos (hereinafter CBTU) in the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo (hereinafter 
the CBTU-SP System) to the State of Sao Paulo (the
State) and intends to transfer the ownership of such system to the State;
(B)
that the State of Sao Paulo (the State) has accepted the transfer of the 
CBTU-SP System on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the agreement 
signed between the Borrower and the State on August 30, 1991 (hereinafter the 
Convenio) and it has been further agreed between the Borrower and the State to amend 
and supplement the Convenio to detail further the terms of, and carry out, the 
transfer of such System;
(C)
that to attain the objectives of such transfer, the Borrower, the Bank 
and the State have agreed that it is necessary: (i) to carry out the physical 
rehabilitation and financial restructuring of the CBTU-SP System together with the 
Page  2
studies and programs included in the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) for the State to establish: (A) a legally independent entity 
(hereinafter the SP Entity) with sufficient authority to own and operate the CBTU-SP 
System after the transfer; and (B) the appropriate regulatory authorities or mechanics 
to oversee the activities of the SP Entity and ensure its operational, safety and 
financial efficiency and that such activities are carried out in accordance with 
appropriate environmental practices;
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(E)
the Project will be carried out by CBTU with the Borrower's and State's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CBTU 
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
State, and the Bank and CBTU;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ATS" means automatic train stop, an emergency train brake system;
 
(b)
"CBTU Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CBTU of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CBTU Project Agreement;
(c)
"CBTU-SP" means until the Operational Transfer the branch of CBTU 
operating in the State of Sao Paulo;
(d)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower's Central 
Bank;
(e)
"CMTC" means Companhia Municipal de Transportes Coletivos, the Municipal 
Transport Company of the Municipality of Sao Paulo;
(f)
"Contract Plans" means contratos de gestao, the annual agreements between 
the State and the SP Entity referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of the State Project 
Agreement;
(g)
"Contract" means the agreement referred to in Section 2.14 of the CBTU 
Project Agreement, to be entered into between CBTU and the SP Entity to effect the 
Operational Transfer;
Page  3
(h)
"EMU" means electric multiple unit, a standard train set of at least 3 
passenger cars of which one is a motorized unit;
(i)
"Estatutos" means CBTU's Charter dated March 15, 1984, which established 
CBTU, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(j)
"FEPASA" means Ferrovias Paulistas S.A., the State's railways company;
 
(k)
"Financial Plan" means the financial recovery plan referred to in Section 
2.12 of the CBTU Project Agreement;
(l)
"FRSMM" means AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of 
the Merchant Marine, Adicional ao Frete para Renovacao da Marinha Mercante, 
established by Decree-Law No. 1.142
of December 30, 1970 as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge 
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute for it, in whole or in 
part, after January 1, 1988;
(m)
"Implementation Program" means the Project's implementation program set 
forth in the Schedule to the CBTU Project Agreement;
(n)
"km" means kilometer, a metric unit of measure;
 
(o)
"m" means meter, a metric unit of measure and "m2" means square meter;
 
(p)
"MSP" means the Municipality of Sao Paulo of the State; 
 
(q)
"Operational Transfer" means the effective transfer to the SP Entity of 
all management and operational authority and responsibility and accountability for the 
operation and administration of the CBTU-SP System.
(r)
"Ownership Transfer" means the transfer of ownership of the CBTU-SP 
System to the SP Entity, including the enactment and execution of all legal, 
contractual and administrative acts and
documents required under the legislation of the Borrower and the State for these 
purposes.
(s)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be maintained by CBTU 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the CBTU Project Agreement;
(t)
"PMIS" means the Project management information system to be established 
and maintained by CBTU pursuant to Section 2.11 of the CBTU Project Agreement;
(u)
"Project Consultant" means the monitoring auditor referred to in Section 
2.09 of CBTU Project Agreement;
(v)
"Rehabilitation of Rolling Stock" means the rehabilitation of an EMU's 
rolling stock, including change of motors, electrical, audio and telecommunication 
systems, adjustment of trucks and shell rehabilitation;
(w)
"RFFSA" means Rede Ferroviaria Federal S. A., the Borrower's federal 
railway company;
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(y)
"SP Entity Law" means the State's law, decree or other legal instrument 
which will establish the SP Entity; and
(z)
"State Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the 
State, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the State Project Agreement
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred twenty six 
million dollars ($126,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
Page  5
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause CBTU to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations 
of CBTU therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable CBTU to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to CBTU the proceeds of the Loan as a 
grant under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Standard bidding documents and letters of invitation to consultants, 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall be utilized in the procurement of goods, work and 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CBTU 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the CBTU Project Agreement with respect to all Project 
activities carried out by or on behalf of CBTU. The 
report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions shall be prepared by 
CBTU assisted by the State, and furnished to the Bank by CBTU or any successor 
thereto.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank and in addition to the proceeds of the Loan, all funds and 
other resources required by CBTU to cover until the Operational Transfer any 
differences between total working expenses and total operating revenues of CBTU's 
operations in the State; and
(b)
for purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "total working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes but excluding provision for depreciation 
and interest and other charges 
on debt; and
 
(ii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
Page  6
Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, and not later than June 30, 1993, the Borrower shall exchange 
views with the Bank, the State and CBTU and, if applicable, the SP Entity, with regard 
to the progress of the execution of the Project, the Operational Transfer, the 
performance of their respective obligations under the Convenio, this Agreement, the 
State Project Agreement and the CBTU Project Agreement and the achievement of the 
objectives of the Operational and Ownership Transfers and the operational and 
financial targets of the CBTU-SP System.
(b)
At least 15 days prior to the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower, through CBTU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing 
the Borrower's actions with respect to the execution of the Project and the 
Operational and Ownership Transfers, the status thereof and the progress achieved in 
attaining the operational and financial targets of the CBTU-SP System.
Section 3.06. Not later than December 31, 1992, the Executive Branch of the 
Borrower shall submit to the Borrower's Congress a bill of law, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank,
authorizing the Borrower to take all action required to effect the Ownership Transfer.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be maintained, 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have such records and accounts, and where appropriate, financial 
statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) and 
the records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of said accounts 
and financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  7
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
State Project Agreement;
(b)
CBTU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CBTU 
Project Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower or the State shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Convenio and such failure, in the reasonable opinion of the 
Bank, may affect materially and adversely the execution of the Project or the 
attainment of its objectives;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the State or CBTU will be able to perform their respective obligations under the 
State Project Agreement or CBTU Project Agreement;
(e)
the Estatutos shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated, so as to 
affect, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of 
CBTU to perform any of its obligations under the CBTU Project Agreement;
(f)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CBTU or for the suspension of 
its operations before the completion of the Project and no other arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been made by the Borrower to ensure the timely 
completion of the Project and the attainment of its  objectives;
(g)
the State or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the SP Entity or for the suspension 
of its operations; and
(h)
by December 31, 1993 or the date on which disbursements from the Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of 60% of the Loan amount, whichever is 
earlier, the Borrower and the State shall have failed to complete the execution of the 
Operational Transfer in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) or (e) or (h) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (f) or (g) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Convenio has been amended, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, to 
Page  8
reflect the obligations of the Borrower, the State and CBTU under the Loan Agreement, 
the State Project Agreement and the CBTU Project Agreement, respectively;
(b)
that the PIU has been established and adequately staffed by CBTU, with 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
from the State, that the State Project Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the State, and is legally binding upon the State in accordance with its 
terms;
(b)
from CBTU, that the CBTU Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by CBTU, and is legally binding upon CBTU in accordance with its terms;
(c)
from the Borrower, the State and CBTU, that the Convenio as amended 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, the State and CBTU and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower, the State and CBTU in accordance with its terms;
(d)
from the Borrower, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by 
the Central Bank;
(e)
from CBTU, that the PIU has been established and no other corporate 
action is required from CBTU to start the PIU's operations as agreed between the Bank 
and CBTU; and
(f)
from the Borrower and the State, that all acts, consents and approvals, 
together with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly 
and validly performed or given and that no other such acts, consents or approvals are 
required in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and the Operational 
Transfer and to enable the Borrower, the State and CBTU to perform all of the 
respective covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower, the State and CBTU 
contained in the Loan Agreement, the Convenio, the State Project Agreement and the 
CBTU Project Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date December 3  1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Economia
   Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P" - 5o andar
70048 Brasilia, D.F. 
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MEFP
61-1506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia,
Page  9
Brazil
With copies to:
(i)
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P" - 8o andar
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1506 MFAZ BR
(ii)
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2207
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64l45 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Itamar Jose Barbalho
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  10
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil works               38,000,000      40%
(2)   Rehabilitation of         39,000,000      56%
      Rolling Stock
(3)   Goods                     21,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(4)   Consultants'               9,000,000      50% of local
      services                                  expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                consultants
                                                domiciled within
                                                the territory of
                                                the Borrower and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                other consultants
(5)  Training                  1,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)   Unallocated             18,000,000
                              __________
            TOTAL             126,000,000
                              ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after September 1, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  11
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the operational efficiency and 
financial performance of suburban railway services and facilitate their integration 
with other transport
services under state and local jurisdictions in the State; (b) to carry out the 
physical rehabilitation and operational, institutional, organizational and financial 
policy reforms in the operations of CBTU in the State, to ensure the efficient 
operation and long term financial sustainability of the suburban railway services 
after the Operational and Ownership Transfers; and (c) to contribute to poverty 
alleviation and environmental improvement through the provision of more effective, 
safer and efficient urban transportation services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Decentralization, Institutional and Policy Reforms
 
1.
A program of studies and action plans aimed at supporting the decentralization 
of suburban railway services in the State and the Operational and Ownership Transfers, 
including institutional and organizational arrangements, valuation of assets, 
personnel transfer (including retirement and other benefits, seniority, etc), 
operational, legal, regulatory and administrative aspects of decentralization, 
financial and economic issues and physical and operational integration with urban 
transport systems in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region.
2.
A program of studies and action plans to improve the management, operations and 
finances of the suburban railway services operated by CBTU in the State, including 
manpower development plans,
introduction of cost accounting, management and information systems, improvements in 
inventory management, studies and plans aimed at privatizing maintenance and other 
operations and increasing non-operating revenues, and provision of related technical 
assistance and training to CBTU and SP Entity staff.
3.
A program of studies and action plans to provide a policy framework and support 
for the urban transport modal integration, including the establishment of multi-modal 
tariff integration,
updating urban transport master plans, CMTC management and route rationalization 
studies and studies on FEPASA's operations and management and modal integration.
Part B:
Physical Rehabilitation
 
A set of programs to rehabilitate the infrastructure and equipment included in 
the CBTU-SP Sytsem including:
1.
A track rehabilitation program consisting of: (a) infrastructure works including 
improvement of drainage systems on about 13 line-km, the rehabilitation of 6 small 
bridges and 43 m of  culverts, the construction of 3 and rehabilitation of 4 
pedestrian overpasses, the construction of about 1,200 m2 of retaining walls and of 
6,800 m of fences along the right of way; (b) superstructure works on specific 
sections, including the replacement of sleepers, fastenings, ballast and rail 
switches, on a total of about 244 line-km; and (c) rehabilitation of track maintenance 
equipment and provision of related spare parts for maintenance.
2.
A passenger stations improvement program consisting of the 
modernization/rehabilitation of 19 stations, including fences.
3.
A rolling stock rehabilitation program including: (a) the rehabilitation of 12 
EMUs; (b) the modernization of 37 EMUs; and (c) the acquisition and utilization of 
eight (second hand and/or
remanufactured) diesel locomotives.
4.
A workshop program including: (a) the construction of a small depot for 
maintenance of heavy track equipment (Lapa), and of a depot for the maintenance of 
EMUs; (b) the acquisition and utilization of plant equipment for workshops; and (c) 
the construction of a laboratory for the repair and testing of electrical components, 
including related plant equipment.
Page  12
5.
A signalling program consisting of: (a) reinstalling track circuits on 10 track 
sectors which cover about 31 km of line in order to decrease the headway; (b) 
acquiring 51 point machines to modify some installations and provide a standby 
reserve; (c) installing signalling in 2 lines with the RFFSA network; (d) equipping 
about 85 km of line with ATS; (e) replacing 54 km of cable; and (f) renewing the 
centralized traffic control systems on about 130 km of line.
6.
A telecommunications rehabilitation program consisting of: (a) installing an 
integrated telecommunications system on the overall network as well as on the 
secondary cable network; (b) installing a track telephone system, a track-to-train 
radio system and indication panels in 14 stations; and (c) installing train 
loudspeakers systems in 26 stations and on 114 trains.
7.
An electrification program including the repair of approximately 940 overhead 
contact line attachments and the improvement of the distribution by installing 31 
network switching devices.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1997
through   May 15, 2007
6,300,000
 
_____________________________
Page  13
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for civil works, rehabilitation of EMUs, electrification, signalling and 
telecommunications works or equipment shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 
2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 and $5,000,000 or more, 
respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate 
any preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
Page  14
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank shall such 
goods contain 
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of 
the value of the completed goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking 
into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and similar 
taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the goods pursuant to the 
bids. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a 
bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid, or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $300,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, and civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $24,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be procured pursuant tothe provisions of 
Part A of this Schedule and the first 2 contracts for civil works and the first 2 
contracts for goods to be procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C of this 
Schedule by CBTU, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
Page  15
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other Provisions
 
For the purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties 
and other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist CBTU, the State and the SP Entity in carrying out the 
Project, CBTU shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$11,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
Page  16
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,  the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
