Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3457 BR
(Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS
Dated September 3, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3457 BR
CBTU PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 3, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS 
(CBTU).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty six 
million dollars ($126,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only, inter alia, on condition that CBTU agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to CBTU as a grant for the carrying out of the Project; 
and
WHEREAS CBTU, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CBTU declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, in collaboration with the State, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, engineering and 
public transportation practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CBTU shall otherwise agree, CBTU shall: (i) carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement; and (ii) take all action necessary to achieve institutional, physical, 
operational and financial performance targets satisfactory to the Bank, in the 
execution of the Project and the operation of CBTU-SP System.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Section 3.02 of, and of Schedule 4 to, the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. CBTU shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project as provided in Section 3.03 of 
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CBTU shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CBTU shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by CBTU of its obligations under this Agreement. In addition, CBTU shall 
promptly inform the Borrower and the State of any such condition.
Section 2.05. CBTU shall: (a) establish and thereafter maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, a Project Implementation Unit (the PIU), with staffing, 
responsibilities and functions
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
provide, promptly as needed all the funds, facilities, staff and 
resources required by the PIU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a 
timely and efficient manner.
Section 2.06. In carrying out the training programs under the Project, CBTU 
shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of such programs as well as 
the schedule for their implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  3
(c)
not later than December 1 of each year starting by December 1, 1992, 
exchange views with the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the 
following calendar year;
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each of such training programs and the benefits 
to be derived therefrom;
(e)
consult with the State on the design and execution of such training 
programs and selection of beneficiaries thereunder; and
(f)
furnish to the State copies of any reports sent to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (d) of this Section.
Section 2.07. CBTU shall: (a) carry out the studies included in the Project 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) promptly upon the completion of 
each such study, furnish to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations, 
including any programs or plans of action to put them into effect; (c) afford the Bank 
a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings, recommendations and programs or 
plans of action; (d) taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, prepare programs 
or plans of action satisfactory to the Bank, based on such recommendations; and (e) 
carry out such programs or plans of action in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, as 
provided in the Implementation Program.
Section 2.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 2.01 and 3.02 of 
this Agreement, CBTU shall carry out the Project and operate the CBTU's SP System in 
accordance with appropriate ecological and environmental practices, satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 2.09. (a) Within ninety days from the date of this Agreement, CBTU shall 
employ a consultant with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to act
as an independent project monitoring auditor reporting directly to CBTU's President.
(b)
CBTU shall retain the Project Consultant until the completion of the 
Project, and cause such Consultant to supervise the Project and report periodically 
(and not less than quarterly) on the progress of the Project, recommending specific 
corrective actions where required.
Section 2.10. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, CBTU shall, until the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, through the PIU, not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 
of each year, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank reasonably request 
(including monitoring indicators related to the
targets referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement) on the execution of the 
Project, the operation of the CBTU-SP System, the compliance of CBTU of its 
obligations under this Agreement and data on the availability of Loan and counterpart 
funds as required to meet the obligations set forth in this Agreement.
(b)
CBTU shall furnish to the State copies of all reports prepared pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.11. CBTU shall establish, not later than ninety days after the date of 
this Agreement, and thereafter, maintain until the completion of the Project, a 
management information system (the PMIS) satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the 
execution of the Project and CBTU's operations in the State until the Operational 
Transfer.
Section 2.12. (a) Not later than September 30, 1993, CBTU shall prepare in 
consultation with the Borrower and State and put into effect a detailed plan of action 
(including dates and intermediate targets), satisfactory to the Bank, to reach a 
working ratio for CBTU's operations in the State (and after the Operational Transfer 
for the SP Entity) not higher than 1 by December 31, 1995. Such plan (hereinafter the 
Financial Plan) shall include a specific program of tariff increases and a set of 
operational measures required for the purpose.
Page  4
(b)
CBTU shall carry out the Financial Plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or repeal such Plan or any 
part thereof.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"working ratio" means the ratio of total working expenses to total 
operating revenues;
 
(ii)
the term "working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of 
taxes but excluding depreciation and interest 
and other charges on debt; and
(iii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
Section 2.13. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, not later than June 30, 1993, CBTU shall exchange views with the Borrower, 
the Bank, the State and the SP Entity as provided in Section 3.05 of the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.14. (a) CBTU shall enter into an agreement with the SP Entity (the 
Contract), satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to effect the Operational 
Transfer.
(b)
CBTU shall carry out its obligations and exercise its rights under the 
Contract in such a manner so as to protect the interests of CBTU, the Borrower and the 
Bank, and, except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, CBTU shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Contract or any provision thereof, if such assignment, amendment, abrogation 
or waiver shall have, in the reasonable opinion of the Borrower or the Bank, an 
adverse effect on the execution of the Project or the attainment of its objectives.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CBTU
Section 3.01. CBTU shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public transportation 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CBTU shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, including the CBTU-SP System, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound engineering, financial, environmental and public transportation practices.
Section 3.03. CBTU shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CBTU shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project.
(b)
CBTU shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the CBTU Project accounts 
Page  5
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, CBTU shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CBTU 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CBTU thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
Page  6
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For CBTU:
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20531 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Telex:
(21) 22793
With copies to:
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2207
Secretaria de Transportes Metropolitanos
R. Leopoldo Couto de Magalhaes Jr. 146
Itaim Bibi
04542 - Sao Paulo - SP
Brazil
Telex:
(11) 23730
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CBTU, or by 
CBTU on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its President or such other person or persons as such President shall designate in 
writing, and CBTU shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ Armeane Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS
By /s/ Isaac Popoutchi
   /s/ Jose Antonio Esposito
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
A.
Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan
 
1.
Decentralization Action Plan of the CBTU-SP System:
 
In carrying out the decentralization of such System, CBTU and the State shall:
(a)
Not later than March 30, 1993, complete a study and an action plan for 
the handover of the CBTU-SP System to the State. In the action plan, all legal, 
financial and institutional arrangements to be undertaken as well as the inventory of 
assets of CBTU-SP will be included (CBTU, STATE).
(b)
Not later than March 30, 1993, complete a study which will determine the 
long run variable costs of the CBTU-SP System using the most appropriate methods 
available, will propose the creation of a data base for more accurate costing and will 
recommend and justify a tariff system which is cost-based and take into account modal 
integration and affordability issues (CBTU, STATE).
(c)
Not later than June 30, 1993, complete a study and an action plan for the 
setting up of a cost accounting system and management information systems for the 
CBTU-SP System (STATE, CBTU).
(d)
Not later than June 30, 1993, complete a study on the financing 
mechanisms required to cover operating deficits and capital investment and propose an 
action plan and chronogram for their implementation in the CBTU-SP System. The 
Federal, State, and MSP contributions should be clearly identified (CBTU, STATE).
(e)
Not later than June 30, 1993, complete the preparation of contract plans 
between CBTU-SP or its successors and the State. This study is intended to prepare a 
detailed contract plan document with basic performance and financial targets and 
obligations of each of the parties (STATE).
2.
Management Action Plan of the CBTU-SP System.
 
In carrying out a management action plan to improve the performance of such 
System, CBTU and the State shall:
(a)
Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare and implement a manpower development 
and organization plan to streamline the management and operations staff in CBTU-SP, to 
propose concise job descriptions and to staff them accordingly (STATE, CBTU).
(b)
Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare and implement an action plan to 
improve the management of stocks for CBTU-SP which will include a computerized 
inventory management to improve internal control and prevent lack of spares due to 
poor programming (STATE, CBTU).
(c)
Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare and implement an action plan to 
subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private sector. This study should 
examine the operational activities which could be subcontracted to the private sector 
Page  8
at competitive prices (at least two competing sources) and indicate the staff 
reductions which can be achieved and potential operating savings if those activities 
are subcontracted (STATE, CBTU).
(d)
Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare and implement an action and revenue 
plan through promotion of station space, advertising and real estate development on 
CBTU-SP. This plan should indicate very clearly what are the non-operating revenues 
which CBTU-SP can earn through promotion of station space, advertising and real estate 
development. The study should provide a detailed
estimate of income and costs and suggest how the proposed plan should be implemented, 
i.e., in-house or through outside parties (STATE).
(e)
Not later than June 30, 1993 prepare an action plan to market CBTU-SP 
image.  After the system is decentralized, management must undertake a marketing 
campaign to improve CBTU-SP System's image and attract new ridership.  This study will 
discuss proposals to improve the System's image, the marketing plan to implement them 
and the incentives to attract new ridership (STATE).
3.
Modal Integration Action Plan of the CBTU-SP System.
 
In carrying out the modal integration component of the Project, CBTU and the 
State shall:
(a)
Not later than June 30, 1993 complete a study and plan of action to 
integrate CBTU-SP and the FEPASA's Metropolitan trains. CBTU's integration with the 
FEPASA Metropolitan trains is an objective already set by the State. This study will 
propose alternatives for the physical, organizational, and financial merger of the two 
systems. It will make recommendations to the State on how to proceed with the merger 
(STATE, CBTU).
(b)
Not later than June 30, 1993 complete a study and plan of action to 
integrate the CBTU-SP System and the Sao Paulo Metro. This study will examine the 
options available to further integrate the System and Sao Paulo Metro's operations. It 
will also provide a detailed technical, economic and financial evaluation of the 
proposed options (STATE, CBTU).
(c)
Not later than December 30, 1993 complete a study to update a proposed 
master plan for integration of transport services in the metropolitan region of Sao 
Paulo (the Master Plan) with emphasis on route rationalization, and modal and tariff 
integration. The Master Plan will be updated to emphasize the integration between 
CMTC, FEPASA, CBTU, and the Sao Paulo Metro. If need be, an updated version of the 
1987 origin-destination traffic survey will also be obtained. Basic
 guidelines for the development of new systems and integration terminals must be 
outlined. A management and route rationalization study of CMTC will be undertaken with 
support from the Sao Paulo Municipality. The regulatory framework for concession of 
bus routes in the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo will be examined (STATE, MSP).
4.
Training Action Plan of the CBTU-SP System.
 
In carrying out the training action plan of the Project, CBTU and the State 
shall:
(a)
Not later than March 30, 1993 complete a training action plan at all 
levels of the CBTU-SP organization taking into account the recommendations of the 
manpower development and organization study referred to in paragraph 2 (a) above.
B.
Rehabilitation Component
 
In carrying out the rehabilitation component the Borrower shall follow the 
schedule indicated in Table 1 attached hereto.
Table 1:  IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
ITEMS
START COMPLETION
not later     not later than
than
Page  9
A.
Permanent Way
 
    1. Purchase of Materials
Oct. 1992
Dec. 1994
    2. Superstructure
Rehabilitation
       - Santos-Jundia
Nov. 1992
Dec. 1994
       - Leste Main & By-Pass 
Nov. 1992 
Dec. 1994
    3. Infrastructure
Nov. 1992 
Sept. 1994
Rehabilitation            
Nov. 1992
Oct. 1994
       - Leste Main
       - Leste By-Pass
    4. Purchase of Equipment
Nov. 1992
Apr. 1994
    5. Supervision
Oct. 1992
Dec. 1994
 
B.
Stations
 
    1. Santos-Jundiai
Aug. 1992
Sept. 1994
       -Leste Main
Oct. 1992
Aug. 1993
       -Leste By-Pass
Oct. 1992
Oct. 1993
    2. Supervision
Aug. 1992
Sept. 1994
 
C.
Systems
 
    1. Signaling
       - Works
Nov. 1992
Dec. 1995
       - Supervision
Nov. 1992
Dec. 1995
    2. Electrification
       - Works
Dec. 1992
Dec. 1994
       - Supervision
Dec. 1992
Dec. 1994
    3. Telecommunications
       - Works
Dec. 1992
June 1996
       - Supervision
Dec. 1992
June 1996
 
D.
Workshops
 
    1. Rehabilitation
Oct. 1992
Nov. 1993
    2. Construction
Oct. 1992
Nov. 1993
    3. Purchase of Equipment
Nov. 1992
Dec. 1993
    4. Supervision
Oct. 1992
Dec. 1993
 
E.
Rolling Stock
 
    1. Modernization
Nov. 1992
June 1996
    2. Rehabilitation
Nov. 1992
Dec. 1994
    3. Purchase of locomotives
Dec. 1992
June 1994
    4. Supervision
Nov. 1992
June 1996
