Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3457 BR
(Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SAO PAULO
Dated September 3, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3457 BR
STATE PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 3, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF SAO PAULO (the State).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of  Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty six 
million dollars ($126,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but, inter alia, on condition that the State agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower and of the terms and conditions of the transfer provided 
in the Convenio, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
collaborate, and cause the SP
Entity to collaborate with CBTU in the carrying out of the Project, (including, after 
the Operational Transfer, assuming the joint operational responsibility for the 
execution of the studies and training programs included under the Project), all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
environmental, safety, financial, engineering and public transportation practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all resources, facilities 
and services required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the State shall otherwise agree, the State shall take, and 
cause the SP Entity to take, all action necessary to achieve institutional, physical, 
operational and financial targets, satisfactory to the Bank, in the operation of the 
SP Entity.
Section 2.02. Without limitation to Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement, the 
State shall carry out and cause the SP Entity to carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of all Project activities 
carried out by the State and by the SP Entity after the Operational Transfer, 
respectively.
Section 2.03. The State shall, duly perform and cause the SP Entity to perform 
duly, all their obligations under the Convenio. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the State shall not take or concur, and cause the SP Entity to not take or 
concur, in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Convenio or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) The State shall, and cause the SP Entity to, at the request of 
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The State shall, and cause the SP Entity to, promptly inform the Bank of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by the State 
or the SP Entity of its obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation to the foregoing, the State shall, and cause the SP 
Entity to, exchange views with the Borrower, CBTU and the Bank as provided in Section 
3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. The State shall:
(a)
Not later than June 30, 1993, establish, in accordance with the SP Entity 
Law, a juridically independent public corporation (the SP Entity) with sufficient 
powers and authority to accept the Operational and Ownership Transfers and to own and 
operate all assets included therein.
(b)
Not later than December 15 each year after the Operational Transfer and 
until December 15, 1995, execute agreements with the SP Entity, satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Contract Plans), including specific operating, financial and performance 
targets for the following fiscal year and the financial contributions and other 
Page  3
actions required from the State to enable the SP Entity to attain such targets.
(c)
Duly perform, and cause the SP Entity to perform duly, all of their 
obligations under each Contract Plan and, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall 
not take or concur in any  action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving a Contract Plan or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. The State shall, and cause the SP Entity to, in implementing the 
operational aspects of training programs under the Project after the Operational 
Transfer:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of such programs as well as 
the schedule for their implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than December 15 of each year starting by December 15, 1992, 
exchange views with the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the 
following calendar year;
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each of such training programs and the benefits 
to be derived therefrom;
(e)
consult with CBTU on the design and execution of such training programs 
and selection of beneficiaries thereunder; and
(f)
furnish to CBTU copies of any reports sent to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (d) of this Section.
Section 2.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 2.01 and 3.02 of 
this Agreement, the State shall cause the SP Entity to carry out the Project and its 
operations in accordance with appropriate ecological and environmental practices, 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.08. The State shall, and cause the SP Entity to: (a) carry out the 
operational aspects of the studies included in the Project under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and, where applicable, in collaboration with CBTU and MSP and 
other local authorities or agencies; (b) promptly upon the completion of each such 
study, furnish to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations, including any 
programs or plans of action to put them into effect; (c) afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to comment on such findings, recommendations and programs or plans of 
action; (d) taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, prepare programs or plans 
of action satisfactory to the Bank, based on such recommendations; and (e) carry out 
such programs or plans of action in a manner satisfactory to the Bank as provided in 
the Implementation Program.
Section 2.09. The State shall:
(a)
not later than March 1, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan of 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, for the transfer, integration and consolidation of 
the FEPASA metropolitan railway system with the SP Entity, including a timetable for 
the execution of the financial, technical and institutional actions required for the 
purpose; and
(b)
carry out such action plan in a manner and according to a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank as provided in the Implementation Program.
Section 2.10. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, the State shall cause the SP Entity, starting at the end of the first 
quarter after the Operational
Transfer, to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31, June 30, 
September 30 and December 31 of each year, a report of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank reasonably request (including monitoring indicators related to the targets 
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement) on the operation of the SP Entity 
and the compliance of the State and the SP Entity of their obligations under this 
Page  4
Agreement.
Section 2.11. The State shall cause the SP Entity to establish not later than 30 
days after the Operational Transfer and thereafter maintain a management information 
system satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the SP Entity operations.
Section 2.12. The State shall cause the SP Entity to carry out the Financial 
Plan after the Operational Transfer in a manner and according to a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.13. (a) The State shall cause the SP Entity to enter into the Contract 
and to carry out its obligations and exercise its rights under the Contract in such a 
manner so as to protect the interests of the SP Entity and the State and to attain the 
objectives of the Project.
(b)
The State shall cause the SP Entity, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, to refrain from assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Contract or any 
provision thereof, if such assignment, amendment, abrogation or waiver shall have, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Bank, an adverse effect on the execution of the Project 
or the attainment of its objectives.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the SP Entity
Section 3.01. The State shall cause the SP Entity to carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, 
safety and public
transportation practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The State shall cause the SP Entity to operate and maintain at all 
times its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
safety, environmental, financial and public transportation practices.
Section 3.03. The State shall cause the SP Entity to take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The State shall cause the SP Entity to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
(b)
The State shall cause the SP Entity to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the SP Entity Project 
accounts for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
Page  5
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the State 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the State:
Secretaria de Transportes Metropolitanos
R. Leopoldo Couto de Magalhaes Jr. 146
Itaim Bibi
04542 - Sao Paulo - SP
Brazil
Telex:
(11) 23730
With copies to:
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, BLoco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Page  6
Telex:
(61) 2207
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos - CBTU
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20531 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Telex:
21) 22793
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State,  
may be taken or executed by the Secretary of Metropolitan Transport of the State or 
such other person or persons as the Secretary shall designate in writing, and the 
State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF SAO PAULO
By /s/ Fernando Augusto Cunha
   /s/ Atilio Gerson Bertoldi
Authorized Representatives
