Docmmeat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4303-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 53.7 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR AN ENERGY PROJECT
April 28, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Birr
US$1.0 - birr 2.07 1/
Fiscal Year (FY)
Government: July 8 - July 7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)              e   0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)       -   0.386 square miles
1 kilovolt (kV)               .   1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)                    1,000 kilowatts
1 megavolt ampere (NVA)       -   1,000 kilovolt amperes
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)              1 million kilowatt hours
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe) =   10,500,000 kilocalories
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASC         Audit Service Corporation
DANIDA      Danish International Development Agency
EELPA       Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
ENEC        Ethiopian National Energy Committee
EPC         Ethiopian Petroleum Corporation
ESMAP       Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
WCPPME      Wood and Charcoal Production, Processing and
Marketing Enterprise
GOE         Government of Ethiopia
ILO         International Labour Organization
MME         Ministry of Mines and Energy
NCCP        National Council for Central Planning
OMDP        Organizational and Manpower Development Program
PMU         Project Management Unit
PU          Project Units
REP         Reference Expansion Program
SWCD        Soil and Water Conservation Department
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr
has been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
ENERGY PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower:         Ethiopia
Amount:           SDR 53.7 mlliSon (US$62.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:    The Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA), the
Ethiopian Petroleum Corporation (EPC); the 1inistries of
Agriculture, State Farms, Tea and Coffee Development, Mines
and Energy, and Industry.
Terms:            Standard 1/
Project           The proposed project would help the Government to establish a
Objectives:       least-cost expansion program for the power subsector and
implement its highest priority projects.  It would assist the
power subsector to attain greater efficiency through the
improvement of its organization and management, the
strengthening of its planning and design capability and
operational practices, and the improvement of its financial
performance. It would assist the Government to develop and
imnplement integrated least-cost plans to expand the supply of
household energy products and correct iibalances in their
prices.  Finally, it would aim to stimlate, to the extent
possible, an increased, more diversified, and coordinated aid
flow from other donors towards the power and the household
fuels subsectors.
Project           The project would comprise for the power subsector: the
Description:      implementation of the highest priority projects included in
EELPA's investment program for the period 1987-1991, a com-
prehensive manpower and organizational improvement program for
EELPA, and the studies urgently needed to support sound future
expansion and operation of the Ethiopian power subsector,
including the feasibility of a possible interconnection with
Sudan.
For the energy sector it would comprise: commercial scale
production and end-use trials of novel agricultural residue
fuel briquettes and modern industrial scale charcoal
production systems; cooking efficiency studies and technology
dissemination; strengthening energy planning centrally and
I/ Onlending terms comprise a 9 percent interest rate and, depending on the
project component, repayment periods of 5 to 20 years including grace
periods of 2 to 5 years.
Thi document ha a nrsticed distribution nd may be usd by recpients only in the perfornuce
of dick officialdutieLIts contents my amotherwn bebedisckedwithout WoddEbnkakuthxnisfioL



- ii -
in each sub-sector with emphasis on woody biomass strategic
planning; and studies and preinvestment work on petroleum
supply, industrial energy efficiency, and biomass fuel supply
and marketing arrangements.
Project Risks:    Power sub-sector components would face normal risks associated
with transmission and distribution works. However, EELPA has
a good safety record, and experience suggests that design and
construction delays would be unlikely. Some household energy
components would be applying technologies previously untested
on this scale. Benefits arising from fuel briquette
components may be reduced by unfavorable seasonal factors and
delayed equipment causing a harvest to be missed. New
household fuel techniques may take longer to acquire than
expected. Such risks would be acceptable in view of the pilot
nature of the household energy components, and the high
benefits to be expected from the successful development of new
cooking fuels from waste.
Estimated Project Costs:
POWER COMPONENTS
Base Cost
US$ Million
Civil Works, Equipment,                      Local      Foreign       Total
Materials, Installation
Generation Rehabilitation                  0.3           5.1         5.4
Transmission lines                         1.4           2.5         3.9
Substations                                2.1           6.8         8.9
Distribution Rehab. and Expansion          4.8          13.6        18.4
General Plant                              0.1           2.1         2.2
Total                                   8.7         30.1         38.8
Institution Building and Studies
Manpower and Organizational Dev.           1.1           4.6         5.7
Studies                                    0.3           1.6         1.9
Total                                   1.4          6.2          7.6
Engineering and Administration                2.1           0.8         2.9
Total Base Cost                        12.2         37.1         49.3
Contingencies
Physical                                   0.7           1.9         2.6
Price                                      2.7          5.5          8.2
Total Contingencies                     3.4          7.4         10.8
Project Preparation a/                        -             1.0         1.0
Duties and Taxes                              6.4                       6.4
Total Cost                                   22.0          45.5        67.5
Interest During Construction                  7.0           -           7.0
Financing Required                     29.0         45.5         74.5
a/ Financed with funds advanced under the Project Preparation Facility on
February 4, 1982 and June 15, 1983.



- iii -
US$ Million
ENERGY COMPONENTS                               Local      Foreign      Total
Base Cost
Civil Works, Equipment,
Materials, Installation
Crop Residue Briquettes                    0.9          3.4         4.3
Charcoal Products                          2.2          4.5         6.7
Total                                   3.1          7.9        11.0
Institution Building ard Studies
Cooking Efficiency Program                 0.2          1.4         1.6
Institutional Strengthening                2.4          5.0         7.4
Energy Studies                             0.0          1.5          1.5
Total                                   2.6          7.9        10.5
Engineering Administration                    0.5          2.5         3.0
Total Base Cost                         6.2         18.3        24.5
Contingencies
Physical                                  -0.8          1.8         2.6
Price                                      1.0          2.2         3.2
Total Contingencies                     1.8          4.0         5.8
Duties and Taxes                              1.7           -           1.7
Total Cost                                    9.7         22.3        32.0
Interest During Construction                  -             .3          .3
Financing Required                      9.7         22.6        32.3
TOTAL PROJECT
Base Cost                                    18.4         55.4        73.8
Project Preparation a/                        -            1.0          1.0
Contingencies
Physical                                   1.5          3.7         5.2
Price                                      3.7          7.7        11.4
Total                                   5.2         11.4        16.6
Duties and Taxes                              8.1          -           8.1
Total Project Cost                           31.7         67.8        99.5
Interest During Construction                  7.0          0.3         7.3
Total Financing Required               38.7         68.1       106.8
-                     =~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA                             -           62.0      62.0
EELPA                          29.0          -        29.0
GOE                             9.7          0.3      10.0
DANIDA                          -            5.8       5.8
Total                          38.7         68.1     106.8
a/  Financed with funds advanced under the Project Preparation Facility on
February 4, 1982 and June 15, 1983.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal e ar                FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92
Annual                          5.6    16.1    19.2    14.3      5.6    1.2
Cumulative                      5.6    21.7    40.9    55.2    60.8   62.0
Etonomic Rate of Return:      Cannot be calculated for the project as a whole.
The power components are an integral part of the
overall EELPA FY85-92 expansion program (of which
the project finances about 6 percent). Rates of
return on the program are 7 percent for the whole
system and 9 percent for the main Interconnected
system alone, increasing to 12 and 13 percent,
respectively, if all power could be sold. Rates of
return on individual project components are 31-33
percent for transmission and 11-30 percent for
charcoal products.
IBRD 18956



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA FOR AN ENERGY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 53.7 million (US$ 62.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Energy Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 4683a-ET) entitled
'Ethiopia, Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects', was
circulated to the Executive Directors on May 31, 1984. The report's
findings, and the conclusions of an economic mission that visited Ethiopia
in March and April 1985, are reflected in the following paragraphs.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The boundaries of Ethiopia embrace a wide diversity of cultures,
and have contained a long and vivid history. Centuries of tradition have
been recently overtaken by fundamental social and political change.
With a population of about 43 million in 1985, Ethiopia is the third most
populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and Egypt). It is also one of
the poorest, and in terms of social indicators, one of the least
developed. About 89 percent of the total population is rural. The
country's land area extends over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be
broadly divided into two main geographical zones, namely: the highland
plateau of central Ethiopia, and the surrounding lowlands. Its capital
city, Addis Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population
estimated at around 1.5 million.
4.        Agriculture accounts for about 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of
exports, and 85 percent of total employment. Crops account for about 80
percent of the gross value of production and livestock for most of the
rest. The main food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal), maize,
barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal export
crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings. Other
export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits and
vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa; the
export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years.   Ethiopia's
known natural resources include gold, platinum, copper, soda ash, and
potash. Some petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no
petroleum reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been
exploited on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the
exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in



agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable.  Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated by
individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less.  Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry. Public
sector control and ownership covers almost all of large and medium-scale
manufacturing, all of banking and insurance, shipping, railway, airways,
utilities, and a large proportion of construction. Handicrafts and small
industry are operated by private owners. Domestic trade, especially retail
trade, and road transport are still largely in private hands.
5.        GNP per capita is estimated at around US$110 (1984) and an
estimated 60 percent of the population lives below the absolute poverty
level.  Health services are limited and require major improvements to
combat high rates of morbidity, and infant and maternal mortality, worsened
by the drought. Life expectancy is still only about 46 years. Housing and
sanitation facilities, especially in the towns, are poor and need urgent
attention. Despite Ethiopia's rich endowment of fertile land and
substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography and
extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation, and economic development in general. Nearly three-quarters
of Ethiopia's farms are more thanL half-a-day's walk from all-weather roads.
The Drought
6.        The drought and famine in 1984/85  caused human suffering on an
unprecedented scale. The number of people needing assistance soared to
nearly 8 million. In response to the Government's appeals for assistance
and its efforts in dealing with the crisis, UN agencies, bilateral donors,
multi`.ateral agencies and non-government organizations have provided a
record US$470 million in relief assistance, compared with the past (para.
8). The Government's hopes for some respite from the drought situation
were raised by improved rainfall in recent months albeit with less-than-
normal intensity. It is too early to say whether the increased interest of
donors in Ettiopia due to the drought disaster, will be successful in
generating significantly increased concessionary aid for long term
development. The drought relief effort, as well as the Government's
programs to rehabilitate drought-prone areas and to resettle drought
victims in the western provinces, have severely strained the Government
administration, and temporarily directed manpower and financial resources
away from other development activities. In any event, the resettlement
program, which the Government is currently consolidating, needs to be
evaluated in terms of its potential benefits and costs before new proposals
are formulated.
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
7.        Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to over 40 percent in 1981 and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the same



-3-
period. These achievements have not, however, been accompanied by
comensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1983/84, GDP grew
at an average annual rate of only 2.5 percent in real terms.
8.         The economy witnessed a set-back during the three years from
1980/81 to 1982/83, with GDP growth declining to an average rate of around
3.1 percent per annum, compared with the highs of around 5.5 percent per
year during 1978/79 and 1979/80. This adverse trend became more pronounced
during the past two years owing to the recent drought. GDP declined by 2.4
percent in 1983/84 and by 6.8 percent in 1984/85. The principal causes for
the set-back in economic growth in recent years were droughts and
inappropriate policies (para. 14) which affected agriculture, and capacity
constraints (notably in industry), owing to low rates of investment in the
past. The ratio of total investment to GDP has remained for many years at
around 11 percent, due largely to constraints on domestic as well as
external resources. Domestic savings have averaged around 3.4 percent of
GDP during the four years ending 1983/84, partly reflecting the basic
consumer needs of a low income country and the high expenditure on defense
and security. Domestic savings turned negative in 1984/85 with total
consumption exceeding output. Apart from the recent increase in emergency
aid arising from the drought disaster, official development assistance
averaged only around US$9 per capita per year as compared to over US$20 per
capita for developing countries in Africa.
9.        rhe external current account deficit has continued to widen; it
reached US$416 million, equivalent to 8.6 percent of GDP in 1983/84. The
situation further deteriorated in 1984/85 with deDressed exports and
increased imports; the current account deficit reached the equivalent of
about 13 percent of GDP - the highest in the past decade. Meanwhile, net
external reserves turned negative during 1984/85, owing to heavy drawdowns
but ended with a positive balance in June 1985. The external debt service
ratio increased significantly to about 22 percent.
10.      Notwithstanding these recent adverse trends, the Government's
fiscal and monetary management has been generally prudent.  The country
has a relatively competent public service and in general, its ministries,
departments and most public enterprises are reasonably well managed. The
overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for the period
1978/79 to 1981/82 and modest current account surpluses were achieved in
these years. But since then the fiscal deficit has followed an uneven
path. During 1982/83, the overall budget deficit rose to a level
equivalent to about 13 Rercent of GDP, principally due to a near doubling
of capital expenditure and an increase in current expenditure, reflecting
in large part a government decision to settle arrears due to parastatals in
one year. The overall deficit was brought back to a level equivalent to
6.2 percent of GDP in 1983/84. Despite heavy drought related expenditures
in 1984/85, the Government controlled the fiscal deficit to the equivalent
of about 7.7 percent of GDP, imposing cutbacks on current expenditure and
special drought 1Lvies.



- 4 -
11.       The inflation rate (as measured by the Addis Ababa retail price
index) had dropped from an average of 13 percent during 1978/79 and 1979/80
to about 5 percent during the five year period ending 1983/84. But during
1984/85 it rose to an annualized rate of about 16 percent, largely
reflecting food price increases, following food shortages, which became
more pronounced since July 1984, owing to the drought.
12.       Despite the growing internal and external distortions noted
above, there has been little or no change in Ethiopia's economic policy
framework.   Official pronouncements have stressed from time to time the
importance of revitalizing agriculture through iacreased investment,
guaranteed producer prices and diffusion of improved technology to farmers;
the need to restore confidence amongst entrepreneurs engaged in small scale
industry; and the need to attract foreign investment and technology to
develop the country's resources. Other noteworthy steps include a Joint
Venture Code introduced in January 1983 to promote joint ventures between
foreign investors (public or private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and
the formulation of proposals to simplify and rationalize the system of
direct and indirect taxes and to make the tax system more income-elastic.
But actual progress in these directions has been very slow.
13.        There are a number of issues which require urgent attention.  It
is yet unclear whether the projected levels of investment can be financed,
given the low domestic savings rate, the claims of the drought and other
priorities for recurrent expenditure, and the limited inflow of official
development assistance (para. 8). While overall budgetary deficits reflect
prudent financial management from an economic growth perspective, they also
indicate the need to strengthen efforts in attracting more external
concessionary assistance for investment. Likewise, with the value of
merchandise imports running at double the value of merchandise exports, a
major expansion in exports and/or import substitution, and restraints on
imports are called for, in order to reach a more sustainable external
current account deficit. Higher coffee prices in the short term and
projected lower oil prices in the medium term have no doubt, improved the
prospects in this regard. But, Ethiopia's real effective exchange rate has
appreciated by over 40 percent against the trade weighted basket of
currencies during the five years ending January 1986. The overvalued
exchange rate and the lack of an effective package of export incentives
have tended tr reduce margins for producers of export commodities in local
currency and have inhibited the growth of exports.
14.       As regards sectoral issueg, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agr.-cul.tural growth. Some initiatives have
been made towards improving the Gave- nment's agricultural and marketing
policies, and a serious dialogue with the Bank is in process. Other
constraints include the low use of improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of
the private sector is yet unclear - the business climate does not appear to
be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry. Although
there has been a remarkable improvement in literacy and general education,
all sectors are affected by the shortage of managerial, technical and
professional staff, indicating the need for stepping up higher education.



-5-
Medium-Term Prospects
15.       The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infrastructure
(notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy dependence on one
export commodity (coffee) subject to international export quotas, a small
industrial base, and shortages of skilled manpower. Apart from this set of
unfavorable initial conditions, the availability of domestic resources for
investment is constrained by the Government's outlays on internal security,
while import capacity is constrained by stagnating exports and by low
levels of external resource transfers. The drought has no doubt, caused a
major setback, to the economy.
16.       Ethiopia's rapid population growth also poses severe problems for
the future. Population growth, currently estimated at around 2.9 percent
per annum, implies a doubling of Ethiopia's population in 26 years or less,
and threatens to absorb most of the gains in economic growth and social
welfare foreseeable in the next decade. The demand for food, energy and
social services would increase dramatically and will lead to adverse
consequences in the ecological balance. The net impact could be
stagnation or possibly a decline in the living standards of the Ethiopian
people. Unless steps are taken to reduce fertility through an expansion of
family planning services, there could be little significant improvement in
per capita income nor of living standards. Ethiopia needs a multisectoral
population policy - which implies an expansion and strengthening of basic
maternal and child health services into which family planning must be
integrated.
17.         There are three areas of policy reform which warrant immediate
attention. They are the improvement of agricultural pricing and marketing
policies, an adjustment of the exchange rate to reduce external imbalance,
and financing the fiscal deficit through non-inflationary sources as far as
possible. Ethiopia needs to orient economic policy towards expanding the
directly productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, and to
increase economic efficiency in the use of resources. The incentive
structure in the agricultural sector needs to be improved in order to step
up agricultural growth, and the business climate for private small-scale
enterprises, particularly in industry, should be made more favorable for
increased investment, output and exports. In general, the authorities have
to make greater and more flexible use of macro-level policy instruments
(e.g. exchange rate and price policies) and less use of direct,
administrative controls. The attainment of higher growth rates would also
depend on raising the operational efficiency of public enterprises and on
alleviating skilled manpower shortages through better incentives and
greater emphasis on higher and technical education. There is also a need
to develop a more realistic macroeconomic framework for the Government's
forthcoming three year plan (beginning mid 1986) within the framework of
the ten year perspective plan and to present a well balanced portfolio of
viable projects. The financing of increased public investment would call
for greater efforts in domestic as well as external resource mobilization.
Despite several constraints and limited room for maneuverability on the
part of Ethiopia's economic policy-makers, conditions exist for a GDP



growth rate of about 3 percent per annum over the medium-term, provided the
Government makes a concerted effort to increase savings and investment and
to pursue policies which foster accelerated growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
18.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 has totalled about
US$850 million (less cancellations) as of March 31, 1986, consisting of 36
IDA credits totalling about US$743 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year interruption
in new lending. Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only. IBRD's
share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 32,
1984 is estimated at about 3 percent, and IDA's at 27 percent. Their
shares of total debt service in FY1985 are estimated at about 9 percent and
6 percent, respectively. Bank lending focussed on the construction of
trunk roads, power and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s,
when Bank lending gradually shifted to agriculture and education. Since
1973, twelve credits totalling US$238 million have supported agriculture
and some attracted co-financing or other complementary assistance. Credit
1088-ET of February 2, 1981, together with co-financing from Sweden and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development, assisted the agricultural
minimum package program, a major part of the Government's efforts to assist
peasant agriculture. Credits approved during 1984 and early 1985 supported
coffee processing and marketing, telecommunications, education,
agricultural research, technical assistance, and a short term program for
drought recovery. A credit for a Port Engineering and Construction Project
was approved in April 1986. A forestry development project should be ready
for consideration in the near future.
19.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally quite satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record
compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In
recent years, security problems have affected three IDA financed
agricultural projects, but two of them eventually made satisfactory
progress. Some projects, especially in agriculture, suffered from
management problems. But projects in the highways, education, and
telecommunications sectors continue to have strong management. Financial
problems, rising labor costs and occasional shortages of construction
materials have also detracted from efficient projecc implementation on
occasion. Efforts to recover from the drought, and the resettlement
program, have recently placed a particularly heavy burden on the
administration. However, the Government and the project managements have
generally been successful in resolving these problems. Ethiopia's
disbursement performance on projects assisted by the Bank Group has also
been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of disbursements to undisbursed
funds in Ethiopia for 1985 was 22 percent, about equal to the Bank-wide
average and above the average for the Eastern Africa Region.



-7-
Assistance Strategy
20.       We propose to continue assisting the Government in devising and
implementing policies and programs to (i) improve the policy framework for
increased production and exports through economic and sector studies,
advice on agricultural pricing and marketing policies and assistance in
implementating of the Government's Drought Action Plan; and
(ii) improve the policy framework and institutional structure for domestic
and external resource mobilization and allocation through advice on tax
reforms, and on better planning and monitoring of foreign aid; (iii)
improve the policy framework and institutional structure for public and
private sector efficiency, through advice on price policy reforms, and on a
clearer role for the existing private sector; and (iv) accelerate human
resource development through advice on population policy, education and
skil'ad manpower development.  In our economic work, we intend to focus on
resource mobilization issues, public investment reviews, export incentive
issues, and human resource development. We have been carrying out studies
of the agricultural sector, including a joint study with the Government on
farmers' incentives and marketing efficiency, and also studies of the
industry, education, and population, health and nutrition sectors. In our
lending work, we plan to continue emphasizing the productive sectors and
essential infrastructure to help address the country's capacity constraints
and deteriorating terms of trade. The proposed project would help to
develop domestic energy resources to meet the needs of Ethiopia's growing
economy and help relieve pressure on the balance of payments. A peasant
agricultural development project is being considered to help increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers. A livestock project has been
appraised and soon a forestry project will be submitted for your
consideration.  We are making concerted efforts to arrange co-financing
for proposed projects.  Informal discussions are underway but no decision
has been taken concerning a possible donor conference on Ethiopia, either a
UNDP Round Table or a resumption of the Consultative Group.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Setting
21.       Over 92 percent of energy supply is from biomass, more than half
of which is in the form of crop residues and dung, the other third from
the preferred fuels of firewood and charcoal. Ninety-nine percent of the
biomass energy supply is for household cooking. Public power supply was
about 770 GWh in 1985, or about 18 KIh/capita/yr and growing at about 8
percent per annum in recent years (1981/85). The main power source is
hydro- electricity, although diesel generation supplies most of the
self-contained power systems, or about 22 percent of total public supply.
Major hydro-generation projects now committed will add 300 MW and 1,100 CWh
between 1988 and 1991. Petroleum, although it comprises only 5 percent of
final energy supply, constitutes the major modern sector fuel source.
Petroleum imports amounted to over half the total value of exports in
1982-83, and have become the single most important burden on foreign
exchange and the balance of payments. Ethiopia imports crude oil for its
Assab refinery, exports about 200,000 tons of fuel oil per year surplus to



-8-
local demand, and imports refined products to make up the overall
imbalance. Prices of woody biomass for household cooking fuels have risen
dramatically In the past decade, reaching an average retail small lot price
of about $75/ton for firewood and an apparent saturation price of about
$440/ton for charcoal in the Addis Ababa area; probably the highest in
Africa. Scavenging for firewood in agricultural zones, consequent
deforestation, and the use of crop residues and dung as fuels, threatens
sustainable agriculture. Prices for petroleum fuels have been kept broadly
at opportunity costs. Electricity prices have generally been kept below
the economic cost of supply and in some regions have not covered operating
costs. However, recent approval by the Government for a 75 percent average
tariff increase to take effect at the beginning of fiscal 1987 will correct
this situation. Finally, in the past, sector planning and investment
programming has not been based on least-cost planning of realistic demand
analysis, reflecting general institutional weakness in the energy sector.
Organization and Planning
22.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) is responsible for
designing and implementing energy policies and, with the National Council
for Central Planning (NCCP), coordinates planning and investment
programming for the various energy related agencies. The NME carries out
its energy planning functions with the assistance of the Ethiopian National
Energy Committee (ENEC), an advisory body consisting of the heads of the
Ethiopian Elect-ic Light and Power Authority (EELPA), the Ethiopian
Petroleum Corporation (EPC), and other government departments and
agencies.
23.       In practice, energy-related parastatals plan their budgets and
long-term investment programs with little assistance from ENEC, instead
referring directly to the NCCP. The latter, however, is not staffed to
undertake an advisory function for the energy sector either at the sectoral
or subsectoral level and, therefore little sound and integrated technical,
economic and financial foundation has existed for setting investment
priorities. Under the proposed project IDA would provide financing for
training, energy studies and energy planning.
Energy Resources
24.       Ethiopia's major energy resources are hydropower, which it is
believed could be economically developed to between 15 and 30 GW; natural
gas, in amounts important for the size of Ethiopia"s z2dern sector
requirements, geothermal energy, for which recent drilling has indicated
large reserves of high-enthalpy steam; and, despite intensive defores-
tation, forest and other woody biomass resources in economically
significant quantities.
Sector Issues
25.       In 1983, the Bank conducted an energy assessment for Ethiopia
under the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program, at the request
of the Government. The report, entitled -Ethiopia: Issues and Options in
the Energy Sector- (Report No. 4741-ET), was published in July 1984, after



-9-
detailed review by the Government. According to this report, the sector
issues requiring urgent action are: (a) the increasing scarcity and high
cost of household cooking fuels as a result of inadequate and inefficient
woodfuel production, marketing management and infrastructure; (b) the
widespread and accelerating depletion of high-forest and savannah-land tree
cover and the associated soil erosion; (c) the inefficient resource
allocatlon in the power subsector as a result of weak planning and
economically sub-optimal major investments; (d) the need to increase
skilled manpower sector-wide, especially in the power subsector; and (e)
the need to increase the level and to rationalize the structure of
electricity tariffs.
26.       Following discussions of the Report's findings with the
Government and energy-related agencies, it was decided to design the
proposed project so as to address the issues noted above. The Association,
under the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), and in
co-operation with the International Labour Organization (ILO), assisted In
project preparation, conducting feasibility and review studies and design
work for a number of components, including loss reduction and rehabilita-
tion of power facilities, charcoal and crop residue briquette production,
and manpower training and development in the power subsector. In addition,
a recently appraised forestry project will also help to increase the
production of household fuels.
Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Sector
27.       The Government has sought IDA's participation in the energy
sector in order to assist in the rationalization of sector developments.
Previously major investments were undertaken on an ad hoc basis without
reference to a least-cost expansion program. During the preparation phase
of the proposed project, the necessary studies were undertaken for EELPA to
design such a plan. During negotiations, this program was reviewed and
agreed with the Association. Assurances were obtained that no major
investments in the power subsector would be undertaken outside of the
agreed investment program for 1986-1992, unless economically and
technically justified on the basis of evidence satisfactory to IDA.
Sector Development Strategy
28        IDA's goals in the country are to continue to assist the Govern-
ment to formulate and implement policies and programs to improve the
efficiency of both the public and private sectors, to improve the macro-
economic framework for resource mobilization and allocation and to increase
production and exports. IDA's support for energy development follows an
overall strategy to assist the Government to develop the country's energy
resources and to improve the efficiency in energy production and use. The
strategy contains a number of simultaneous courses of action which reflect
particularly the need to construct the infrastructure necessary for
increased production in key sectors such as agriculture and industry, to
establish and implement least-cost plans for the supply of electricity and
household fuels and to implement programs to stop soil erosion, including
afforestation in large scale. Other important IDA goals are to strengthen
the sector institutions and to act as a catalyst to facilitate a larger and
more coordinated and diversified inflow of financial resources.



- 10 -
Experience with Past Lending
29.       The Bank bas supported three energy projects in Ethiopia:  Loan
375-ET to EELPA in 1964, helped finance the Awash II and III hydroelectric
plants and associated transmission and distribution;   Loan 596-ET in 1969,
also to EELPA, helped finance the Finchaa Hydroelectric Project; and,
Credit 1386-ET, approved in 1983, is assisting the Government in the
promotion of petroleum exploration. The Awash II and III hydroelectric
plants and associated facilities were satisfactorily completed though with
a delay of about two years due to construction difficulties. The Project
Performance Audit Report for Loan 596-ET (Report No. 1102 dated March 23,
1976), concluded that the project remained economically justified.
Power Subsector
30.       The Power Subsector.   About 10 percent of the total population
(1985) have access to electricity, but per capita consumption of about 18
KWh is among the lowest in the Region. Electricity in the main grid in
1985 was about 590 GWh, or about 77 percent of the total supply. In the
period 1985-95, electricity will be supplied almost entirely from
hydroelectric plants. Existing and committed facilities are expected to
have capacity considerably in surplus of national demand through 1995.
However, under a recent agreement with the Government of Sudan, Ethiopia
expects to be able to sell its excess production.
31.       EELPA. The Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA)
is a state-owned corporation and the sole agency responsible for public
electricity generation and supply in Ethiopia. Due to managerial weakness,
EELPA is in practice managed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy, much as a
ministerial department. Its autonomy has been restricted also by its
dependence on the national budget to finrnce investments.
32.       Electricity in Ethiopia is supplied almost entirely through
public service facilities. While these facilities generally have been well
constructed, the chronic lack of foreign funds to purchase spare parts has
indirectly reduced the service life and reliability of many facilities.
In 1985, public sector generation represented about 98 percent of total
capacity. In the central highlands and the southern part of the country,
electricity is supplied through a relatively large interconnected system
and 40 small self-contained systems. In the Eritrea region, electricity is
supplied through a small interconnected system and 13 self-contained
systems. Consumption by major consumer categories is about 64 percent
industrial, 26 percent residential and 10 oercent commercial.
33.       IDA has recently reached understandings with EELPA and the
Ministry of Mines and Energy on a reasonable load forecast and an expansion
program for the subsector for the period FY86-FY92 which would involve only
least-cost additions to the ongoing investment program.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.        The present project scope arises substantially from the
priorities for energy sector development and management identified jointly
with the Government during the course of the Bank/UNDP energy sector
assessment for Ethiopia in 1983-1984 and follow-up activities. Part of the
project preparation was financed through PPF funds amounting to US$1.0
million (PPF 193 of February 4, 1982 with an addition dated June 15, 1983),
including a Power Planning Study (November, 1982), the feasibility of the
Finchaa - Bahar Dar and the Awash III - Dire Dawa transmission lines, and
the feasibility study for the Finchaa fourth hydropower unit. The Italian
Government funded studies for the rehabilitation of the Aba Samuel
hydroplant, construction of two mini hydroplants (UNDP) and an optimization
study of the distribution system in Addis Ababa (Cesen-Ansaldo/Finmecanica
Group Italy). High priority power rehabilitation, household energy,
institutional strengthening, and technical assistance components were added
to the project in 1983-84, and alternatives to supply electricity to the
Bahar Dar-Gondar and the Dire Dawa areas were further reviewed.
Feasibility work for the energy components was undertaken with
pre-investment resources of the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
(ESMAP) and the ILO. These included from the ILO a diagnostic study of the
manpower and organizational development and technical assistance
requirements for EELPA, and a feasibility study for the recovery of forebt
residues by carbonization. Consultants financed by ESMAP completed
feasibility studies for agricultural residue briquetting and improved
bagasse utilization; also with ESMAP financing, and with ILO as executing
agency, a comprehensive urban cooking efficiency program was initiated in
1984, the second and larger phase of which would be executed under the
proposed project.
Objectives of the Project
35.       The main objectives of the project are to:
- develop the local capability to establish a least-cost expansion
program for the power sub-sector and implement its priority
projects;
- expand urban electricity distribution systems.
- attain greater efficiency in the power subsector through
improvement of organization and management, strengthening of
planning and design capabilities, upgrading of operational
practices, and improvement of financial performance;
-  develop and implement least-cost plans to supply household energy
products with substantial private sector participation through
free marketing practices;
- correct imbalances in the prices of energy products;
- reduce low-income household expenditure by making available
affordable alternative fuels; and
- increase and coordinate external assistance towards the power and
household fuels subsectors.



- 12 -
Project Description
36.       The proposed project consists of:
Power components
(i) Generation rehabilitation - of hydroplants, diesel
plants, and a steam plant.
(ii) Transmission - construction of about 200 km of a 66 kV
transmission line and about 26 km of a 132 kV
transmission line;
(iii) Substation Expansion and Rehabilitation - construction
and expansion of 132 kV substations; construction,
expansion, and rehabilitation of 66 KV and 45 KV
substations;
(iv) Distribution - expansion of distribution in major
urban centers, and rehabilitation countrywide;
(v) General plant - vehicles for EELPA; housing for
consultants;
(vi) EELPA organizational and manpower development program -
consultancy services, lecturers, scholarships and training aids;
and technical assistance for planning, finAnces, data processing,
preventive maintenance, engineering and design; and,
(vii) Studies - for interconnection with Sudan; and for distribution
planning and design.
Energy Components
(i)   Crop residue briquettes - pilot production, training,
monitoring and evaluation of briquetting for
household and industrial fuels totalling 10,500
tonnes per annum of coffee, cotton, wheat, barley and
bagasse residues; and review, design and modification
of selected existing wood-fired industrial plant;
(ii)  Charcoal products - pilot logging and charcoal production of
about 15,000 tonnes per annum originating from major forest
logging and clearing programs;
(iii) Cooking efficiency and new fuels testing;
(iv) Energy Sector Institutional Strengthening - overall energy
sector planning support, detailed woody biomass planning and a
woody biomass resource inventory; and,
(v) Energy Sector Studies - provision of consultancy services for
review of petroleum supply options, and for a study of industrial
energy efficiency audits and training.
Technical Assistance
37.       EELPA would receive a total of about 541 months of consulting
services in respect of management, manpower development and engineers and
design services, and about 117 months of fellowships.  The ministries under
which the energy components will be administered will receive consulting
services, and predominantly local training.



- 13 -
Cost Estimates
38.       The total cost of the project including physical and price
contingencies and duties and taxes, but excluding interest during
construction, is estimated at about US$99.5 million equivalent of which the
foreign exchange cost would be US$67.8 million equivalent (68 percent).
Total financing required including interest during construction is
estimated at about US$106.8 million equivalent, including a foreign
component of US$68.1 million. Base costs are at the December 1985 price
level. Physical contingencies range between 5 percent and 10 percent of
base costs; price contingencies were calculated on the basis of best
available forecasts at a post-appraisal review in March 1986 and assume an
annual inflation rate of 8 percent (1986-1992) for local costs and an
international inflation of 7.2 percent for 1986, 6.8 percent for 1987-1988,
7.0 percent for 1989 and 7.1 percent for 1990 and 4 percent on 1991 and
thereafter. A detailed breakdown of the estimated project cost is in the
Credit and Project Summary at the begining of this report.
Financing Plan
39.       The total foreign exchange cost of the project is US$68.1 million
of which IDA will finance US$62.0 million equivalent, the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) will finance US$5.8 million
equivalent and the Ethiopian Government will finance about US$300,000
equivalent. Local currency requirements will be provided by the Government
for the energy components (US$9.7 million equivalent) and by EELPA for the
power components (US$29.0 million equivalent).
40.       Out of the proceeds of the IDA credit, the Government would
onlend about US$45.5 million to EELPA at a 9 percent interest rate for 20
years including 5 years of grace and about US$1.0 million to EPC at a 9
percent interest rate for 5 years, including 2 years of grace; the proposed
onlending rate is in line with local inflation in Ethiopia. The execution
of the onlending agreements between EELPA and the Government and EPC and
the Government are conditions of credit effectiveness. Currency
requirements for the other energy components of the project will be
provided by the Government and credit proceeds would be passed on to the
various implementing agencies as grants. In order to avoid delays in
project implementation, retroactive financing, not to exceed US$2.0
million, would be provided for drafting of bidding documents, terms of
reference and contracts for hiring consultants.
Procurement
41.       Vehicles, equipment, materials and civil works to be financed
with proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit would be procured under
international competitive bidding procedures following the Bank Group
guidelines, except for proprietary items, such as the spare parts for
rehabilitation of existing equipment. Civil works associated with the
transmission lines, substations and distribution lines would be done by
EELPA on force account. Contracts for the construction of small industrial
buildings of some of the household energy components, for about 12 houses
for project personnel and for classrooms would be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding, locally advertised, following procedures which are



- 14 -
acceptable to IDA. All contracts for amounts of US$300,000 or more would
be subject to IDA's prior review. Consultancy services would be retained
in accordance with IDA guidelines on terms acceptable to IDA.
Disbursement
42.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a period of
five years. Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for civil works or 80 percent of local expenditures; 100
percent of foreign expenditures for equipment, materials, vehicles, spare
parts, fuel, and training; and, 100 percent of foreign costs for consulting
services or 80 percent of local expenditures for services of consultants
domiciled in Ethiopia. Disbursement for the above items would be fully
documented except for force account civil works and for reimbursement
against contracts for goods and services valued below $20,000 equivalent
for which use of statements of expenditure would be acceptable. A schedule
of disbursements from the proposed IDA credit which agrees with standard
profiles for Bank loans and IDA credits for power projects in the Eastern
and Southern Africa region appears in the Credit and Project Summary. The
closing date for the proposed credit would be March 31, 1992, six months
after project completion. In order to expedite execution and give the
implementing agencies rapid access to funds under the credit, the
Government will open two Special Accounts at the Bank of Ethiopia. Account
A for EELPA will have an initial deposit of US$500,000 and Account B for
the PMU, an initial amount of US$300,000.
AccounLing and Audits
43.         2ELPA's financial statements are audited by the Government's
Audit Services Corporation (ASC). During negotiations, agreement was
reached that EELPA would continue to employ qualified auditors and that
audit reports would be submitted to IDA on the foliowing schedule: 13
months after the close of FY1986, 9 months after FY1987 and 6 months after
FY1988 and thereafter. Accounting for the energy components will be
carried out by the PHU. Annual audits would be performed by ASC or other
external auditors satisfactory to IDA. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months
after the end of each fiscal year, including accounts for statements of
expenditure and the two special accounts.
Project Implementation
44.        The power components of the project would be implemented by
EELPA with the assistance of consultants. Appointment by EELPA of a
Project Manager would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The
organizational and manpower development program for EELPA would be carried
out by consultants. Employment of the consultants to undertake the organi-
zational improvement of EELPA would be a condition of credit effective-
ness. The energy components would be executed by various agencies under
five ministries. Responsibility for coordination and supervision during
implementation would rest on a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be
established within MM. Establishment of the PMU would be a condition of



- 15 -
credit effectiveness. In the execution of the energy components, the
various ministries would be assisted by experienced consultants and
contractors who would work under terms of reference or technical
speciflcations satisfactory to IDA.
EELPA's Management, Staffing and Training
45.       The managerial effectiveness of EELPA has been a serious problem;
therefore, a diagnostic study is proposed as part of the project. A set of
performance indicators will serve as tentative targets for EELPA while the
study is in process.   EELPA's information and data processing will be
improved through training and technical assistance under the project. At
June 30, 1985, accounts receivable represented about seven months of total
sales due mainly to slow billing procedures. EELPA's auditing arrangements
are satisfactory to IDA but EELPA is about two years behind in closing its
accounts. During negotiations agreement was reached that EELPA would
continue to employ qualified auditors and adhere to an agreed schedule for
submission to IDA of provisional accounts and audited accounts. EELPA's
insurance is satisfactory. EELPA is subject to import duties on equipment
and spare parts and pays 50 percent corporate tax on its net income.
46.       At the end of 1985, EELPA had about 7,000 employees and was
heavily overstaffed at lower levels. EELPA's difficulties in hiring
professionals will be addressed by the proposed project in cooperation with
the University of Addis Ababa. Consultants would be retained to assist in
reorienting the training program at EELPA's training centre.
ZELPA's Financial Position
47.        An objective of the proposed project is to assist EELPA to
achieve and then maintain a fully satisfactory financial position. The
projected balance sheets for FY86 through FY92 show current ratios between
1.2 and 1.5. The debt equity ratio is projected to increase from 20/80 in
FY86 to 36/64 in FY92, which would be acceptable. During negotiations.
assurances were received that EELPA would not incur any debt without IDA's
agreement unless the twelve month net revenues prior to incurring the new
debt, cover at least 1.5 times future maximum debt service, including that
related to the new debt.
48.       Under the proposed credit, EELPA's future financial performance
would be linked to achieving the following levels of internal
cash-generation for the financing of capital expenditures: 15 percent for
FY88, 20 percent for FY89, and 25 percent thereafter. During negotiations
agreements were reached that EELPA shall take all measures including
increasing its tariffs to meet such levels.
Tariffs
49.       EELPA achieved annual rates of return on revalued assets of -4.6
percent in FY84 and -3.7 percent in FY85. Excluding the Eritrea region,
the rates of return were -1.6 percent and -0.6 percent respectively, well
below the 7 percent required under Loan 596-ET of 1969. EELPA's internally
generated funds are decreased by a 'capital charge" levied by the
Government as well as by the requirement that EELPA pay 10 percent of its



- 16 -
net income each year to a reserve fund for EELPA until it equals 30 percent
of EELPA's paid-in capital. This reduces the availability of funds for
EELPA to finance its investment program. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that at the beginning of each fiscal year, EELPA would have at
its disposal, sufficient funds to meet the local currency requirements of
its investment program for the subsequent year.
50.       Analysis by IDA and MNE on the adequacy of EELPA's tariff charges
to meet its operating costs and debt service requirements, as well as make
a reasonable contribution to its construction program from internally
generated funds, indicated a need to increase present tariff rates by an
average of 75 percent. Such an increase was difficult to secure during a
period when the attention of the Government was directed on drought related
problems. However, approval for this increase was given in March 13, 1986,
and will be put into effect in July 8, 1986, at the beginning of FY1987.
The average tariff per KWh will then increase from US$0.059 to US$0.103.
No further increase is considered necessary until 1989.
51.       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that EELPA would
review periodically the adequacy or appropriateness of its tariff structure
and furnish to the Association for its review and comments any plan of
action prior to its implementation. Technical assistance support under the
project would assist them in this analysis.
Economic Justificat'on
52.       Electric power.  At present it is not possible to estimate the
power system long-run marginal costs for Ethiopia because a long-term,
least-cost power development program has not been prepared. Therefore, the
average incremental costs of the ongoing and projected total investment
program, between FY85 and FY92 were estimated instead. The calculation of
the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of the power component of the
project was based on the overall power investment program between FY85 and
FY92 and projected incremental revenues from power sales as a proxy for
benefits. The IERR for the EELPA system is a low, but acceptable, seven
percent; this rate reflects not only over investment in capacity but the
high costs of operating about 60 small isolated systems. If the surplus
capacity could be sold, presumably through inter-connection with Sudan, the
potential IERR would increase to 12 percent.
53.       The proposed 66 kV transmission line from Sabatta to Wolliso has
been chosen to provide an indication of the likely economic benefits to be
derived from the three lines to be extended under the project. The IERR
for the Sabatta-Wolliso line was estimated by measuring the cost
differential between the alternatives of completing the transmission line
in 1988 or in later years. The Government and EELPA are committed to the
continuing supply of electricity in and around Wolliso at average
country-wide tariff levels, and therefore alternative costs represent a
valid measure of economic benefits. The resulting IERRs of completing the
transmission line in 1988 is 32 percent compared to deferring it until
1991, or 33 percent compared to a delay until 1995.



- 17 -
54.       Household Energy Production Projects.  The various household
energy production components are pilot projects. They are designed to test
the technical, financial and economic feasibility of using readily
available, but presently unutilized or underutilized biomass resources, by
converting them into useful fuels and moving them to markets. Although
pilot projects, they are designed on a large-enough scale to capture most
available economies of scale In production, transport and distribution.
While most of the technologies to be utilized are well proven elsewhere,
they are new to Ethiopia, so the economic analysis can only be indicative
at this time. Nevertheless, the promise of very substantial rates of
return is high, if the feasibility of the technical packages can be proven
in the Ethiopian context.
55.        Charcoal projects.  The charcoal pilot projects are designed to
produce 15,000 tons per year of charcoal, utilizing waste wood from land
clearing operations. The potential economic benefits measured by comparing
the estimated costs of supplying lump charcoal from the projects with the
costs of alternative fuel available in the Addis Ababa market, indicate an
IERR of 30 percent.
56        Crop residue briquettes.  Briquetting crop residues from large
farm operations is not common and it has never been done on the scale
envisaged for Ethiopia. Nevertheless, the components of the technical
packages to be used are all commercially available and proven. Crop
residue briquetting would derive its economic justification from the lower
economic costs of such briquettes delivered to the Addis Ababa market
compared to alternatives. As a percentage of the costs of kerosene and
firewood respectively, briquettes from coffee residue cost 56 and 22
percent, from bagasse 69 and 27 percent, from cotton residue 69 and 27
percent, and from cereal stover, 70 and 27 percent. Used as industrial
fuels the various crop residue briquettes promise to be as competitive as
they are as household fuels. Overall the analysis shows that developing
these new sources could be highly advantageous. Thus the pilot projects
proposed are fully justified.
Environmental Aspects
57.       None of the proposed power components involve any significant
negative environmental impacts. The household energy production components
of the proposed project are expected to have positive environmental
implications in that they will tend to reduce the rate of deforestation.
The coffee husk briquetting projects wilI alleviate a serious fire and
water pollution hazard. The crop residue briquetting will be monitored for
effect on soil fertility and structure. The residue recovery operations
are more likely to improve soil structure and fertility than the present
practice of burning fields before planting crops.
Riparian Rights
58.       The hydroelectric plants to be rehabilitated under the project
are on the Awash, Finchaa and Blue Nile rivers. The Awash joins a lake,
part of which is Djibouti territory. The Finchaa is part of the Blue Nile



- 18 -
system which flows through Sudan. Nevertheless, the nature of the proposed
rehabilitation works is such that the project will not have any impact on
water quality or quantity, and an international water rights issue
therefore does not exist.
Risks
59.       The power subsector components do not involve any abnormal
risks. Some of the household energy components include innovative
production of fuels, techniques and technologies. Although economic
viability for these components has been demonstrated at the feasibility
study stage, risks derive from the seasonality of crop or forest residue
production. However, these are pilot projects where part of the objective
is to analyze the risks - that is, the impact of delay on costs and the
scale of production as a way to learn the application of new basic logging
and carbonization technology, and organization of the work. The benefits
from development of new sources of household cooking fuels from wastes
should far outweigh the risks faced.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
April 28, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                                nex I
LLLULb                                                mia
onz~~                   -   AL Inv        El  s
6061             (int   mamp=ioa mrt
inmiw     w  im    (NWa Now  oflmaa1
1,.k  aiik  .ammiLb              wi of salma          match a. or mamma
orm   w       (6)                    ...                   120.0              236.6                    1063J4
- auinrf ma CWM
(cUARAaa   OF OIL inqoVA&.m           6.0        20.0        20.0               62.1                     561.5
FUUIuoin m- wim 62Uia
POP0L41131131t1  CluUUAIE)   22536.0          2U17.       40600.0
oLMaf wOLnuNu (2 owr TFaL)            6.4        97          1A3:
FOwuIATIOU to no4 200  (KILL)                              41.7
uTTOARTu uauuLATION (MMz.z)                               183.0
F PU0AT1U DMr   rTU?
Fin SQ. MN.                        1a.a       23.7         33.5               33.2                      65.1
PoR SQ. M6. ACZ. LAWR              39.2        46.6        67.1              112.812
PoOtUA2?1w AM MuxUE (X)
0-14M                             42.9        44.7        45.4               46.0                      4S.A
13-64 VW                           52.4       52.4         51.6              50.6                       513.
65 m103032.5                                    2.1         2.1                2.9                       2.7
FOPIaTIoU GooUS  RATS (X)
TO1*1.                              2.2         2.5         2.72.                                         S
URBS                                5.          9.7         6.2                GA -.1
cam  Stan2  3   ("ML MM)             4.1.       43.1         40.5               41.2                      47.
cuun3t ulars 3*1  (131 TWO)          20.2        17.A        20.    0           17.0                      15.0
caON  .aiMMujCfl   I=1                2.8         2.8         2.2                2.2                      13.2
FUECL? PIAIUGM3.
ACC     . MML EL )
UrS=  (Z Of 831311  0063             .           .           .                 3.2                       6.4
worn  I -             t    )2m m                 lA
imrxnO  rown   reco. PUR CAPITA
(1949-71.100)                       101.0       M01.        87.0               63.1                      62.9
-usrA S          orCPITA m2     O
CAL.aRxO CZ OIw gBnUIMUM)          64.0        77.0        F7.0               67.                      u8.s
P3013111 CORNS MU 3*               67.0       62.0         40.0               53955.4
OF 161CI RVINIAL. AM  EUL        26.0        24.0         22.0 acIi                                    16.5
CElL  (Aml 1-4) ngll km2             26.5        35.0        "A.                22.1                      14.6
LlnT LM=C. AT KanI C13gA6)          43.6        41.1         42.5               47A8                      52.0
131*11 "M6. "M1 C(U 1300)           125.0      156.5       142.0               119.                      106.
ACCESS TO SAMt MATZ1 (Ot)
TOTAn                               .            .0        141                27.1                      42.4
RURAL                               .         61.0                            62.513:                   67.5
IDEAL                ..         ..              __             193~~~~~~~3.              35.8
AcCES TO EIWUTA DISPOSAL
CI Of POPMAULaI)
TUO                                           14.0          ..               26.5                       28.9
ru RAL                                        67.0        *.16.4                                       57.7
IDEAL                               ..     2    .0                           20.                       20.7
POaULATIom  PM  RUICIN          L12660.0    86120.0    G9190.               2ML0.7                     11791.7
POPF. PER 60161M  93660          16750.0      6900        51.30.425.
FMP. Ft& UOSPITAL. MM666331.03OA                                                                         4
TOtAL                             260.a      352.0       26.r2a 1 .                                    "1.1
3                                210.0       450.0       7.0                 26.2                        6.
316*1D. rsnO                       0..      1110.0      10130.0            12.5                       4u71.9
Eg oUs                                                                                                    27 2 J . 1  ..  2.2
AVRRAGZ S12 or UODUH
TOTAL                               .            .
AVIRACE no. 0f FgUOUSJEO
TOM                                 ..         ..
03*  25o  r D        1.7                        ..         2A.J..
F3Wa Or OP 3216 oO.           W=.
TOM
10611   S..f                                   ..



- 20 -                                               Amex I
TABLC  U                                           .. 2 of 6
toFIA                  - S-OCIL INDICATOS        5TA
ETIPA                              UUINC  Go0?   (10USGn  HEMU383e
NW?                      (NW STC 30 3?  lNAw
t LOW Zmm   AFRICA        msu   Jm -
ioa        197dbL    Soonorb sourv oF A sMc  S. oF sA34
nDvs     _uLLr RATIS
FrIus?   Tam                       7.0        16.0       44.0               *7.a                     9.7
PLUS                   11.0        23.0        60.0              77.6                     100.0
1111.                   3.0        10.0        33.0              54.9                      S3.2
S30DMAM  TSOUL                    0.4         4.0        12.0               13.5                     17.3
NAw.                    L.0         6.0        16.0              17.9                      23.0
FEKALZ                  0.1         2.0         6.0               9.1                      14.
boc*riOUL (I of S31DnIA)            20.3        4.3        ".0                13.2                      5.9
IUPIL-!3ACU RATIO
PaulAMX                           37.0       48.0        43.0               44.9                     41.1
52C0a5                            13.0       28.0        ".0                27.4                     23.3
rASuasINS  CARSnO9S*D FoP            0.7         1.4        1.6 If             3.8                     20.4
RADIO iAZM WZOSAND Po                4.3         5.5        6.6 7i-           55.8                    107.8
TV UI0IVEUS/TUSD P                   ..         0.3         1.0                2.6                     20.8
3 AM5.  (DML   cNErAL
UTRIEST') CtI1CAT1OU
rrUOUSD n 3OsLTOU                   1.9        1.0         1.0                5.0                     16.4
CI        AEL  ATEICICPITA           ..         ..          ..                 0.5                      0.4
TOTAL LARo PO11 CTUOS)           10066.0    12439.0    14916.0
P3KhZ (P13W?)                     35.7       35.2        32.9               34.2                     36.2
AGC3aLUU (PCT)                    68.0       64.0        60.0 id            77.5                     54.5
II11ThT (19UT)                     5.0        6.0         7.07d             9.7                      16.3
FARTICIPATXOM NAT CPERCfl)
TTL                               4.7        43.1        36.3               39.3                     36.8
Hui                              59.6        56.9        50.5               50.9                     47.1
IDA                               31.3       29.7        25.3               26.1                     27.2
eCtIC D3OSC7 RATIO                   1.0        1.1         1.3                1.3                      1.3
MCoT Of PVATE INGOW
*zeEIVD 7r
HaNS? 5X or sOS                    ..          ...
LaOu? 201 oP   D S                 ..          ..         .....
Lbs 20x or s .... . . .
LIsST 40 OF WSIU,OLD               ..          ...
r- 
ES?DWtD AISoUITE FOrwzT  NCME
LEML (056 Mg CWrZW
U                                  ..          ..       190.0              163.5                    590.7
EAL                                ..          ..        65.0 /f            95.0                    27.3
srDIATUD RELATVE POVERTY IN
LEVL (us$ 31 cAPrrT)
UU8I                               ..          ..        77.0 /f           113.1                    53.1
RL                                 ..          ..        37.0 7             67.6                    201.1
ZST7DL   P0O. BELOU ABSOUJm
POVERTY ENCW1 LEEL (1)
URUU                               ..          ..        60.0 If            36.6
EURAL                              ..          ..         .. 7!             61.5
.. AVALASLE
.' APPLECABL
11 O T C S
'a   The SrTUP rae a for each Ludlecor are p@puls-    I&te4 ariStlcSe u_nm.   wte   t camtlee_t
smug che indicatocr depend on valvbUity of data =n  La not unie_.
lb   Uolse. otberela  noted. 'Data for 1960" reter to e7    r betwee  1959 an  1961; 'Data for 1970" betwae
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Mac  UAnt Etarics" between 1981 and 1963.
/c  1977; Id 1980;  a 1978; If 1976; .l Addis Abaa oly.
m, 1965



-21-                                       Annex I
rPago3rof 6
aulNSrno  OF SOCAL INOWATOUi
MuWs Ajibsh dodm mr   frm_ sours aenMy jidgd dw meet authnuvu ad reliat it shuld als he neW thet an m   be iawaue_ly
eoua   hes or tk tck of mardud ddmim md ce_pu ad by diCw.  mna . collsiutkng a n . d       u dard ae. m_wm   idW so
dumbe    ofdr emagnituade. adieu trumdl. mad char.sci aman major diffuaomo Iuu. teDum.
dnW  d_dd isl_ 
The ata    pou  am} (I    -   c ewsy dea alk _ihie coutr an21 a counsy peup sahg    ht higher aw  intrn a. a ws
peepoa ftm     ofhly (musfwoHih 1l0 Oil Espnorar epS shuw   iMddk Irm ,MarfiomdMilEa tos    be. of -og
.eoa-aal   asiin.tad ithanI   gro dom a uaw_| m populitaun winglitd antsac manm (r gebi iudaeo  ad _hee. only sun uWsry
1 bof tbcoma aa o* _     dam for hat WnSets le the coverage of cumm among ik ndmor depend o she swailhty or d  mWia -udue.o
muo   em be saidia rdedg asre oam or  dieidrto amule. Thu anwa   - oely atal empering al vau on an demerat a me am.ns
ceawy mud mm scue pou
REA (thousd sq.km.                                              Cad SiA  Rat (peir ufrnm!4-Number of live birth in the year
Ta-Tol surface am cmpsing land area and inand watem            per thound of mid-year populatio: 1960. 1970. and 1963 data.
1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                      Cam* DU.   Awe (pa uimmid)-Number of deaths in the year
Ag kini.-Estim lte or agiculttial area used temporarily or      per thoumsnd of mid-year population 1960. 1970. mnd 1983 dtar.
permanently for crops psturs. market and kitcben prdens or to  GCas ReprS.wMu Rae-Average number ordaughteus a woman
lie ralow. 1960. :970 and 1982 data.                           wdil bear n her normal reproductive period if she exp   nces
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita esumates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 193.
markt prce  calulad by same convemion method as World           kiv*  Pp1._--Aepr'.s Am! (uh..made i-Annual num-
Bank Alaflzr 1981-43 basl; 1983 data.                          ber of acceptor of birth-cotrol devices under au,ses of nationa
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family panning progam.
consumption of commercal pnmary energy (coal and lignte.        Fiy PhmiqrUsa  (pcent fof rkd omwme)-Tbe pemen-
petrolum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal deec-  tagc of maied women of childbring age who am practiing or
trcity) in kilogams of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are praci  any form ofcontraception. Womcn
1962 data.                                                     of child-bearin  ag are generally wome aged 15-49. although for
some countes contraeptve uiae is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITaL STATISTICS                                groups-
Tel  hpmioDn.MM-Ywa osd-As oflJuly t. 1960.1970.               FOOD AND NULRMON
and 1963 data.
Yrbm  _bpmbwim- (pecem of *airef tauci ao r urban to totul    'aifiz ofkSoSaiuu Pr Cgsfl (1fl-71 - 19Mj)-Index ofper
Urisftp.uri. (pcer  f rvdj-azaoor  rbanto ttal capita annual production of all food commodaties. Production
populion; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  c;ludes animal feed and seed for agrculture. Food comimodties
ability of data among countries: 190. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (cg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
ftpO.latk.rhjeasw                                               wbich are edible and contain nutrents (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population t  eaers  00-The projecuon of population for 2000.  excluded): they compnos cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Startng with information on  vegetables. fnuts. nuts. suprcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total populauon by age and sex. fertlity rtes. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Agregate producton of each country is based
intemational migration n the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at riveyear intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the populauon beca..'e stauonaoa.            Pr Capita Sp*  ofCaoie (prc    efreqiteanrn-Coaput
Swatanarv popadnaa-ls one an which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
lity rates have not changed over a long penod. while age-spectfic  per capita per day Avatiable supplies compnse domestic produc-
fertdity rates have simultaneously remaied at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
t nct repreduction rate-I . In such a populauon. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agrculture. quanuties used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure Is also  food processing. and losses in distnbutton. Requirements werc
constant. and the growth rate as zero. The stationary populauon  estimated bv FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated an the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the pcpulation an the vear 2000. and tbe rate of decline of fertibity  age and sex distnbuton of population. and allowing 10 pecent for
rate tO replacement kvel.                                      waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpudatioua M.mentan-ls the tendency for population growth to  hr Caprta Supply ofPrtle (rums pa h6y)-Protein content of
continue bevond the time that replacement-level fcrtility has been  percapita net supply offood per day Net supply offood as defined
achieved; that as. even aftcr the net reproduction rate has rcached  as above. Requirememts for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a populatuon in the vear i ts measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse proten, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumpton that fertility rmains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment klvel from year r onward 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
_Populao. Deaiy                                                avenge for the world. proposed by FAD in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mifl-year population per square kilometer 1 100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tars) of total are: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 her Ciapit Proein Suppy From Aianu Idle-Protein supply
Per sqxm. agnrcdlural Land-Computed as above for avncultural   of food denved from antmals and pulses in grams per day: 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Populsm_ Age Srrutwe (p"csres-Children 10-14 years). woi -     Childl gs 1-4  Death Rat (per rhounnad)-Number ofdeaths of
ing aget 5-64 ycarsL and reard (65 years and ovcr as perynrtage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children an the same age
of mid-year populatonx 1960. :970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data denved
Pbpdsieu Gvrowth Rate (p.reat;-e4otaL--Annual growth rates of  from life tab4la 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year populaton for 1950-40. 1960-70. and :970-83.    HEALTH
Ptp.luri.u Goawu Roe (p,rcmtw-whs---Annual growth rates        Le Erpectmoy at rut (yens-Number of yea  a newborn
of urban populaton for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 daLta.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-22-                                        Annex I
Page 4 of 6
st the tu of or it birt wh n to say the -m   throughout iu life;  A&p&eahet r Retio  priwry. md eemdp-4oTl studenu  .
1960, 1970 ad 1963 d                                          rld U primay Nd  aldary Iul divdad by  umbes or
a        Mwyi Res (   sand--Number of infUts who die          tachb  n  the corepndg hla.
before rackin o- yet of ag per thousad fiv birt in p uven
year IWt 1970 and 1983 data.                                  CONSUM ION
Ae    I SO  WO   ({_t ff           _      4_ w_L   . _        A qi- Cda (per ihmd pq.Iidai-rbsomger cam cow
rve-Nubo  of people (teL uban ad natal) wi mao.               prn motor cmn mating less than aght permons exclude ambil-
acm   to sae war supply (lucdas  ited surce wats or           amcs. her  and military veicl.
atreaS but unoaimatd water such    tdm from protected         baar aaehv,. 4w r       -pailsdedjn -Al type of.miw.
borehol, sppup and sam   wel) as perc kenta  of thr  pC-      for radio brosdcata to gnea public per thousand or populatin
tive populaio  n an - urban na   a pubblc foutin or ndpaot   excl_ud   un-licend receive  in countries and in yas whon
located not     th  200  m    barn a hor may be conirestroon of radio sts was in effect; data for -et yeas my
as bSno within  macamble scum of tho bouse- In rural  u      not be compamble since most countrea abolihed licing.
reasoonble me mould imply that the housefe or members of the
houhd do not have to spedsa diproporo    part of the day      Tvhiends" p(ubi  th5 dopbi             wremvers for broadcst
* fetching the fam*l's wateradL                              to geoeal public per thousand population esciude uknliene TV
Eceiver in countre a  io yea  whn reitr    of TV as wa
A     to Exrow D_IP"  (Poe          m_ _              w.     in effect.
e d-Number of peopk (totaL urban. and rura) served by
cacu  disposal as pecntage  of thir rspecuive populations.    NewspwP  Clvd9s (p. thansaeodpqbisa i-Shows the aver-
Emnea disposal may include the colection and disposal. with or  ap cimulaion of -dady gened int  newspaper  defied ass
without tre tment. of human cactus and waste-water by water,  periodical publication devoted prmarny to  ording genal nw.
borne systems or the use or pit pnvies and similar insaiauons.  It is considerd to be 'dadly if it appen at Iant rour times a work.
ftlidmili    PPdhyAs-lpubationdivided by numberofprac-       CI   Amud Auemdse pr CqauS pe Ye-Based on the
using physicis qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickts sold during the year. including admisions to
f    _pSSu. por IVeal Pesm-lItpulation divided by number or  drive-in cinenas and mobile units.
practicing male and femal graduate nurs, asistant nurs        u      
practil nurs  and nuring auxiliri.                           LOL FORCE
Papoilonlo *m  Heo     _l__faa wm  _u rurL-tiplaton       TrefL lor Awce thosadr-Econornically wave pemonL in-
wtaL wtn. nd dul) dived by ta  padpUvc nwkber of             cluding amed force ad unemployed but exduding bouswive
(to tal,  urban, an dn i r ura l)divided   by  their respeve   nd    z em   etc.. covrng   populaton   of al age.  Definitions  in
hosptalbs availablinublc and prv. H   er aen ev    alid      vrous countre  re not comprble; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
pem ianenty staffed by at lest one physician Esablishments proy- v  (prcenrI-Female labor force as pauntage of total labor
id'  principily cutodil cre are not included. Rural hospitals  force
however iclude health and medical centen not pemanntly staffed  Qikue fpevcenek-Labor force in farming. forstry. buntig
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing a petmutage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
whicb oter in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of nedical facilities.                                       lary (pmare-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adissir pHr Hespsl Bad-Total number of admissions to or      factunng and elecmtciy water and gas as perenta  of total tabor
discharge from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      forc: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P-dc**C       Raa frcast-   -     m      f-, _n4puriAion
HOUSING                                                      or acuvity rates are computed as total, male, and femnae labor force
,uerq Sire of H Mel(id j       per   hese   )-l. w ,         as pecen tages o total, male and female population of al aes
airedc-A hounsehdolos  ofa group of individual who sham      respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These arebased on ILOs
livng quarts and their main  als. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rtes reflecting age-sex strictumeofthe population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long timew trnd. A few estimates are from nauonal soumes
Average Numler of Perso  per Ro.m-rmetl, wham ad srea-       Ecoomic Depeadey Rato--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural   65 and over, to the working *ge population tthose aged 15-S).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pennannt structures and unoccupied parts.                MCOME DMSTRIBLTION
hrcer  of Dw~y  **  Ecinietp -re,I -wkm,.sad red-            Pfceure of Tee Disposbk Incme (hocl i cashi ad ktid)-
Conventional dwellings with electrcity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentil groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respectivey        hold income-
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A44sd EeeSa Reris                                            The following estiLmates are very approximate nmasures of poverty
P*mwy school - rtola( mk ad femrk-Gross total. me nd         levels and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ag  at the prnmary kvd as pectags of  EsimtdA 4sAePrye lacmwLevl (dUSpcraps.  -he
respective prmary schoole populauons. While my countries     ad rea-Absolute poverty income levd is that income level
consider pry school age to be 6-11 yeafs. othas do not. The  below which a nmnimal nutntionally adequate diet plus essental
diffreces in country praceu in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Es r~ed Relot Prnepy lre  Level (USS per capep-.'hav
education, gross enroUment may exceed 100 percent simce some  ad ,ed-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higber cost of
Secondary schol - ford, aiok ais fenuak-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary educato  requ    at klst four years of approved pri-  Eidm.ted Ppt.h. Bedla A4sele P4re   fIcom  Levd (pe-
Ima  instucto  pvide geeral, vocationaL or teacher traunig   ct-5aw ad red- Percent cf population (urban and rural
intuctions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are absolutepoor.-
enm  cousae genexcy eluded.
VoaioW  ELrosmt (percy. qf secondvr,-Vocational institu-               Compartive Analvsis and Data Division
tions indlude techniol indusriaL or other progrms which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Deparment
indepndenty or a departments of swodary insttutons.                                  June 1985



- 23 -
Annex I
PaRe 5 of 6
ETHIOPIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP Per Caplta - 120.0 (1983)
ANNAL RtAT  Of GROWTH OF GDP
GROSS DOMSTIC ProDUC  IN FT 1985        1/             AT CONSTANT FACrOR COST (S)
-(rFscal Years)
USS Kin.               1981-83    1983    1984    1985
COP at Mnarket Prices          4835.9   100.0         3.1        5.1   -2.4   -6.8
Investment                      522.5    W0.6
Gross Domestic Savings         -251.3   -5.2
Rasource  lalance              -774.0  -16.0
Exports of Goods and !IFS       557.9    11.5
luporcs of Goods and NFS       1331.9    27.5
OUTPUT IN 1965 L/
Value Added
usS Kin.         S
Agriculture             1921.6           44.3
Xndustry                 694.5           16.0
Services                 1722.7          39.7
rotal at leator Cost    a338.6
G0VERCNT FINCE
Central Government
;BC. Mlin)              f  CoDP
F___T-/          ffY965      19,2-84
Currant Recaipcs       2 4       011 != I
Current Expenditures           2364.5            23.6        21.2
Current Surplus                  36.6             0.4       -0.3
Capital Ezpeditures            1275.8            12.7         8.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                  1980      1981     1982     1983      1964
(Fiscal Y1ers)                          (1illon Dr. outstandlng and perlod)
toney and quasi-money                   2332.1    2377.6   2643.7   3040.5  3383.7
Rank Credit co Central Goveranmt         963.1    1107.9   1180.8   1980.8   2293.4
anck Credit to Private Sector and
Flnancial lstituctonx                1644.2    1721.6   1944.3   1741.7  1861.9
(Percentage )
aoney as S of CDP                         27.3       26.7     28.8     30.4     33.7
Annual percentage changes In:
CGnerl Price Index                        4.5       6.1      5.6      -0.4      8.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.3      14.4       6.6    67.8    15.8
Rank Credit to Private Sector             34.5       4.7      12.9   -10.4       6.9
Note:  AU converslons to dollars in thi  table are at che official exchange rate
of US$1.00 - Dlrr 2.07
All Fiscal Years are from July 8 to July 7.
L/     Proisional. Data for 1985.



- 24 -
ANE=  I
g=e6of 6
1983     1984      1985 I/ lfIS. IXX 1
4unn     US$)                      (Fiscl Year Average 1983'85)
Export6s Gfods NFS          551.8    611.9    557.9                  Coffee             246.4      60.3
Iqports of Goods, NS        961.7   1115.8   1331.9                  Pblses              10.8      2.6
Reme Gap (deficit  -)  409.9   -503.9   -774.0                       all                  9.9       2.4
Hies & Sklns       48.4      11.9
Investment Inwome (net)     -13.6    -19.2    -38.4                  Olfseed cake         5.5       1.4
Private b11nsfers (net)      84.9    107.2    169.1                  Otber               87.5      21.4
Balance mo Curent Aoct.   -338.6   -415.9   -643.3                  Tbtal              408.5    100.0
Official Transfers (net)     92.5    161.9    472.0
Private MLT Ong ta1  (net)    0.0       0.0       0.0
Fbbllc MT[ Borrowzrg (net)   203.5    204.1    169.1                 ErRNaL IEKF, JsmF         31, 1984
Dlsbursenents            (253.3)  (268.8)  (293.5)                                        US$ kIn.
AmDrtization              (49.8)   (64.7)  (124.4)
Short-temn Capital           -9.5      10.9       7.2                Total outstanding &
Disbursed            1384.2
In in  RS
i iniease)               71.5      42.3      53.1                1EET SERVICE RAIID FR FY 1984
MHor Items (ifrl emom:s)  -19.4        -3.3    -58.1                                            Z
Net ForEipj Assets (end year) 107.3    64.8       
Petroleu Impxrts            184.4    155.2                              Dtal Qitatacilig &
Petroleim Product Imports     7.3      28.2                            Disxbursed            16.1
Rate of EwchIue Slxce 1973
US$1.00 - Br. 2.07
Br.1.00 = S$0.48
IBRDIYi. IEDLl4, (O(tdber 31, 1985) (Millin US$)
ERD    MI
Ctstandlng and Dbured            41.8   734.3
Undisbursed                       0.0   306.7
Ouitstandimg ixxml. [idxisbrsed    41.8  1041.0
0 = not avaLlable
I/ Provisional
Qitdtaer 1985



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETRIOPIA
STATENENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1985)
Amount
(USS MlUlion)
(less
Loan or                                                 Cmncellations)
Credit                                                                Undis-
Number      Year Borrower      Purpose                   Bank   IDA  bursed
Twelve loans and twenty one credits fully disbursed      108.6  264.3
Cr. 603-ET  1976 Ethiopia      Rangelands Dev.                   27.0    1.0
Cr. 707-ET  1977  Ethiopia 1R Revised Amibara                    25.0    3.3
Cr. 789-ET  1978  Ethlopia     Grain Storage & Nktg.             24.0    0.8
Cr.1088-ET  1981  Ethiopia     Agric. Minimum Pkg. II            39.2    2.8
Cr.1141-ET  1982 Ethiopia      Education V                       35.0    2.5
Cr.1275-ET  1983 Ethiopia      Agric. & Ind. Dev. Bank           30.0   22.2
Cr.1366-ET  1983  Ethiopia     Urban Developuent                 20.0   17.0
Cr. 1386-ET  1983 Ethiopia     Petroleum Exploration              7.0    3.7
Cr.1404-ET  1984 Ethiopia      Second Road Sector                70.0   61.9
Cr.1429-ET  1984 Ethiopia      Coffee Process. & Mktg.           35.0   32.4
Cr. 1509-ET  1984 Ethiopia     Sixth Telecommunications          40.0   41.4
Cr.1520-ET  1984 Ethiopia      Sixth Education                   70.0   71.7
Cr.1521-El 1984 Ethiopia       Agric. Research                   22.0   21.9
Cr.1522-ET  1984 Ethiopia      Technical Assistance               4.0    4.2
Cr.1576-ET  1984 Ethiopia      Drought Recovery Program          30.0   19.9
Total                                  108.6  742.5
of which has been repaid             66.8    8.2  306.7
Total now outstanding                  41.8 7.3
Amount sold                     6.0
of which has been repaid      6.0            -       -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustsents)      41.8  734.3
Total Undisbursd                        -      -    306.7
1/ US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr. 418-ET, Amibara Irrigation,
has been repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1985)
USS Million
Fiscal                                              Type of              Amount
Year          Obligor                               Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dava I             Textiles      1.5      1.0        2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.              Paper         -         1.9       1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                       Sugar         5.5      3.5        9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dava II            Textiles      0.4      0.2        0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dava III           Textiles      1.5      0.2        1.7
Total Gross Commitments                               8.9       6.8      15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and sales                          8.9      6.8       15.7
Total Commitments nov held by IFC
Total Undisbursed



- 27 -
Annex III
ETHIOPIA
ENERGY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  Three years
(b)  Project Prepared by           : IDA staff and consultants
(c)  Identification mission        : March, 1984
(d) Appraisal mission              : November, 1984
(e)  Negotiations                  : March, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  (120 days after credit signing)
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
Provision of retroactive financing for up to US$2.0 million to cover
such start-up activities as the drafting of bidding documents, terms of
reference and contracts for consultants.
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Execution of subsidiary loan agrements, acceptable to IDA, between the
Government and EELPA and the Government and EPC.
(b) Establishment of a Project Management Unit in the Ministry of Mines
and Energy.
(c) Appointment by EELPA of a Project Manager and employment of the
consultants necessary for a study of EELPA's organizational
improvement needs.



I            I                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THIOPIA
ENERGY PROJECT
~~~f7HiOp,A~~~~~~~~~~~ R A Y 
D  A                   S I D
W E E E G A,                                                                                                            0       A L D, K
~~~            -~~~~~~ 
/~~~~~~~~~~ fNYAs1     
/                     



