Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 16827
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
ENERGY I PROJECT
(Credit 1704-ETH)
June 30, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =       Ethiopian Birr (ETB)
US$1.00       =       Birr 2.07 as of March 1985
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer     =       0.621 miles
f square kilometer (kIn2)  =       0.386 square miles
1 kilovolt (kV)            1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)       =       1,000 kilowatts
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)      =       1,000 kilovolt amperes
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)     =       1 million kilowatt hours
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)  =     10,500,000 kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      =      African Development Bank
DANIDA              Danish International Development Agency
DCA       =     Development Credit Agreement
EELPA              Ethiopian Electric Power and Light Authority
EIA      =      Environmental Impact Assessment
EPC             Ethiopian Petroleum Corporation
ERRP             Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Program
ESMAP       =      Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GOE      =      Government of Ethiopia
ICR      =      Implementation Completion Report
iCS      =     Interconnected system
IDA      =      International Development Agency
LPG      =      Liquid Petroleum Gas
MME       =      Ministry of Mines and Energy
NCCP       =      National Committee for Central Planning
NEC      =      National Energy Committee
PMU       =      Project Management Unit
SAR      =      Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP       =      United Nations Development Program
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Oey Astra Meesook
Technical Manager: Jeffrey Racki
ICR prepared By: Alfred Gulstone



ETHIOPIA
ENERGY I PROJECT
(CREDIT 1704-ETH)                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction .......................................................i
Project Objectives .......................................................i
Project Results and Implementation Experience .......................    ................................i
Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operation ......................................................    ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction .......................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .......................................................2
C. Project Implementation Experience .......................................................6
D. Performance of IDA .......................................................7
E. Perfornance of the Borrower ........................................................8
F. Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operations .......................................................8
G. Key Lessons Learned .......................................................8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND ANNEXES
Tables:
Table 1:          Summary of Assessments
Table 2:         Related Bank Credits/Loans
Table 3:         Project Timetable
Table 4:         Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated, and Actual
Table 5:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:         Key Indicators for Project Operation - Not applicable
Table 7:          Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:        Project Costs
Table 8B:        Project Financing
Table 9A:        Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9B:        Major Assumptions
Table 10:         Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements - Not applicable
Table 12:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:        Bank Resources: Missions
Annexes:
Appendix A:         Borrower's Review of the Project
Appendix B:         Project Operational Plan
Map:
IBRD No. 25037
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
ENERGY I PROJECT
(Credit No. 1704-ETH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy I Project for
which Credit 1704-ET was approved on May 20, 1986 in the amount of SDR 53.7
million (US$62 million equivalent) and made effective on March 16, 1987.
The Credit was closed on March 31, 1995 and was 87 percent disbursed. Co-
financing was provided by DANIDA in the amount of US$9.9 million. The Danida
Grant closed on March 31, 1997 and the approximate disbursement is 95 percent.
The ICR was prepared by Alfred Gulstone, Principal Power Engineer, reviewed
by Fauzia Najm under the supervision of Jeffrey Racki, Technical Manager, AFTUl.
The Borrower provided comments which have been incorporated in this report.
The contents of this report are based on material in the project files. The
Borrower contributed very useful information for the preparation of Parts I and II of the
report and provided its own review of the project, attached as Appendix A or this report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
ENERGY I PROJECT
(Credit No. 1704-ETH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Ethiopia Energy I Project addressed the need for priority actions to ensure the
supply of biomass household energy, electric power, and petroleum at least cost and
provide the necessary manpower and management systems for their development. The
project also formed part of a country assistance strategy to mobilize financial resources
for investment and economic growth. The flow of external financial assistance in the
energy sector was mainly for electric power sector development. It was inadequate for
meeting the power sector's developmen' needs; its allocation was not efficient, and it did
not provide the necessary support for policy formulation and institutional development.
When IDA appraised the Energy I project in 1984, IDA had very limited involvement in
the energy sector. There had been no electric power project since the 1960s and there had
been no project in the household energy sub-sector. The most recent project was a credit
for petroleum exploration promotion, which IDA had approved in 1983.
Project Objectives
2.    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Energy Project defined four broad
objectives: (a) improving investment planning and programming; (b) strengthening
institutions; (c) developing strategies to resolve problems in the household energy sector;
and (d) arresting the declining biological productivity of key agricultural ecosystems. The
SAR further specified these objectives by sub-sector.
Project Results and Implementation Experience
3.    The project substantially achieved its physical objectives for power system
development, though with a delay but did not achieve its financial objectives for EELPA.
In household energy development, the emphasis was on developing least-cost plans to
supply household energy products through free marketing practices with substantial
private sector participation. The project was successful in developing an information
base and strategy for managing biomass resources and in establishing the viability of
improved cooking stoves. However, the project did not did not establish the technical
and economic viability of efficient charcoal production on a commercial scale or fully
establish the economic viability of fuel briquetting operations. Regarding petroleum
supply, the project did not determine the most economic petroleum supply option or



- ii -
upgrade LPG production as originally planned. Also, the project only partially achieved
its objective of demonstrating and implementing improvements in energy efficiency of
selected energy-intensive industries.
4.    There was considerable delay in project implementation due to country
conditions of civil unrest, and IDA extended the closing date three times. Most of the
components were completed during the period 1987-95, except for the woody biomass
component which extended into 1996. The project closed March 31 1996. Total project
costs amounted to US$ million compared to US$ US$ 73.8 million (Part II, Table 8A)
as estimated at appraisal. IDA disbursed a total of US$ 64.7 million (Part II, Table 4),
which in US dollar terms was higher than the appraisal estimated due to the devaluation
of the US $ relative to the SDR, the currency of the original credit. A restructuring of the
project took place during 1992 to support GOE's emergency rehabilitation and
construction program to finance additional generators, consumer connection materials,
transmission and distribution equipment, vehicles and computers in facilities affected by
the civil unrest. The main factors that affected project implementation were civil unrest,
devaluation of the birr, management limitations of the project management unit (PMU),
The overall performance of IDA and the Borrower was satisfactory.
Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operation
5.    The project's outcome overall was satisfactory because of its substantial
contribution to improving EELPA's planning and management capability; success in
implementing priority investments in the electric power sector; and made significant
progress in developing an effective household energy strategy. Also the actions in the
project's operational plan (Appendix B), and the proposed Energy II project should make
the sustainability of the project's achievements likely. They also could help achieve
objectives which the first energy project was unable to achieve concerning EELPA's
financial performance; establishing the financial viability of improved charcoal
commercial production; and evaluating the most viable option for petroleum supply and
upgrading the production of LPG. The proposed Energy II project incorporates some of
the key actions of the operational plan. Its objectives are to further increase the
efficiency and sustainability of Ethiopia's power sector; expand the use of electricity for
greater economic growth and quality of life; and improve the efficiency of renewable
energy production and consumption.
Key Lessons Learned
6.    There were several lessons learned from the project:
(a)   The, Energy Assessment under the Joint UNDP/Bank Energy Sector
Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) played a crucial role in the
design of both the Energy I project and the Energy II projects and such
assistance can be particularly important in other countries where the
World Bank Group does not have a recent history of operations.



- iii -
(b)   It is important to keep the design of energy projects simple and avoid
complex implementation arrangements, even within a single sub-sector
and especially in countries were there is a shortage of qualified staff to
manage the implementation.
(c)   The project's experience in producing briquettes from crop residues had
mixed results and future projects with such components should also
evaluate private sector interest in owning and operating briquetting plants.
(d)   A successful improved stove dissemination program requires paying
detailed attention to producer capabilities, quality control, and consumer
preferences.
(e)   To ensure the implementation of viable industrial energy efficiency
improvements, special training programs and financing mechanisms may
be necessary.
(f)   Addis Ababa is experiencing a transition from traditional biomass fuels to
modem fuels which could have a major impact on the demand for
electricity and petroleum products and future projects should assess the
potential substitution effects of changes in energy pricing and the
availability of improved stoves.
(g)   The management of a project such as Energy I requires full-time project
managers who should not have any other duties in the government,
especially during the start-up phase.






ETHIOPIA
ENERGY I PROJECT
(Credit No. 1704-ETH)
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.    The Energy Project addressed key energy sector issues which a Joint
UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment report identified in 1984. The Assessment
pointed to the need for priority actions to meet the need for biomass household energy,
electric power and petroleum at least cost and provide the necessary manpower and
management systems for implementing energy development programs. The project also
formed part of a Country Assistance Strategy focused on improving the efficiency of
public and private sectors to mobilize financial resources for investment and economic
growth. The flow of external financial assistance in the energy sector was mainly for
electric power sector development. It was inadequate for meeting the power sector's
development needs; its allocation was not efficient, and it did not provide the necessary
support for policy formnulation and institutional development. When IDA appraised the
project, in 1984, its involvement in the sector had been very limited, beginning with two
hydroelectric projects in the 1960s but no projects for more than a decade later until the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion project in 1983.
2.    The institutions responsible for energy sector development had structural
weaknesses and insufficient skilled staff. The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) was
responsible for designing and implementing energy policies and shared the responsibility
of ensuring the consistency in planning and investment with the National Committee for
Central Planning (NCCP). The MME exercised its functions with the assistance of the
Ethiopian National Energy Committee (NEC), an advisory group consisting of the heads
of the Ethiopian Electric Power and Light Authority (EELPA), the Ethiopian Petroleum
Corporation (EPC) and other government bodies. The Natural Resources branch of the
Ministry of Agriculture was responsible for forestry. The Ministries of Agriculture State
Farms and Coffee and Tea Development were responsible respectively for coffee and tea
crops that produced large volumes of residues for energy use.
3.    There were two main problems in energy planning. First the parastatal energy
sector organizations planned their budgets and long term investment programs without
consulting NEC. Instead they consulted with NCCP, which was not equipped to take the
lead advisory function in the energy sector. As a result the establishment of investment
priorities often lacked sound integrated technical economic and financial planning.
Second, the energy sector lacked qualified staff to handle planning work required,
especially in the power sector. EELPA's organizational structure was out of date with



modem practice. The utility's training programs were not specifically linked to efficient
deployment of staff and human resource management systems were virtually non-
existent.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overview
4.    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Energy Project defined four broad
objectives: (a) improve investment planning and programming; (b) strengthen
institutions; (c) develop strategies to resolve problems in the household energy sector;
and (d) arrest the declining biological productivity of key agricultural ecosystems. The
SAR further specified these objectives by sub-sector: household energy development;
electric power sector development; petroleum supply options and industrial energy
efficiency. The following section reviews the achievement of objectives in each of these
areas.
Electric Power Development
5.    The focus of the project in the electric power sub-sector was on developing a
capability for least-cost programming, implementing the highest priority projects in the
program, and making the necessary improvements in management, operations, and
financial performance to execute the investment program. In support of these objectives
the project components included: an organizational and manpower development program;
power sector studies and technical assistance to make use of surplus hydropower
capacity; improved electricity distribution planning and design; and investments to make
existing facilities more reliable and efficient. Since the project was particularly
concerned with organizational and manpower improvement and the financial condition of
EELPA, it included legal covenants requiring the completion of an organization and
manpower improvement study; implementation of the Study's recommendations; and
attainment of specific financial objectives.
6.    Power development objectives were reasonable and responded to the most
pressing needs of the system. Inadequate investment planning and low tariffs had led to
inefficient resource use, diminished power system reliability, and financial problems for
EELPA. A chronic lack of foreign exchange for spare parts and maintenance had
reduced the service life and reliability of many facilities. Also EELPA did not have
sufficient qualified personnel and information systems to prepare planning studies
required for system expansion. As a result the utility's investment programs did not
necessarily represent the least-cost solution for the country and over-investment in
capacity expansion had placed a heavy burden on the national budget.



- 3 -
7.    The project partially achieved its institutional objectives for EELPA. While it
made some improvement in planning, management and operations, it did not meet all of
its financial objectives set forth in project covenants. The project prepared a least-cost
investment program, with the assistance of consultants, which EELPA is using as a basis
for future power system investments. The organization and manpower development
study helped to improve system operations by decentralizing management and setting up
information systems necessary for the operation of a modem utility. The data base of the
information system includes performance indicators, financial projections and capital
programs.
8.    The project completed important studies to improve utilization of hydro-based
interconnected system (ICS). The feasibility study for a potential electricity
interconnection between Ethiopia and Sudan resulted in an agreement between the two
countries to jointly review the study and subsequent activities. However, further
negotiations did not materialize. The completion of a distribution planning and design
study led to several improvements: the standardized optimal conductor size for the
EELPA system; a topographic map of the network; improved system protection, and
safety regulations. Comprehensive studies on voltage levels and loss reduction indicate
that distribution system investments are needed to improve the quality of electricity
service.
9.    EELPA was unable to fully achieve all of its financial objectives. Two key
indicators were the level of the accounts receivable and its annual contribution to
investment. During most of the project's implementation period, the level of receivables
exceeded the agreed target of 3 months' of sales and was as high as one year. The utility
took measures to reduce receivables but these measures unfortunately did not have a
lasting effect on improving collection performance. Project covenants also linked
fmnancial performance to cash generation levels instead of a rate of return on revalued
assets; IDA was concerned that the latter would lead to higher tariff increases than
necessary, producing excessive cash accumulation when large assets were included in the
asset base.
10.   Prior to Board approval of the project, there was a major tariff increase of 75
percent. Given country conditions, IDA considered this increase sufficient to allow
EELPA to meet its operating expenses, debt service, and requirements for contributing to
the utility's capital expenditures. IDA estimated that this situation was likely to continue
through the project's original completion date (1992). The project's covenants stipulated
a tariff increase in the event that EELPA could not meet its cash generation target. For
several years EELPA met that target and at times exceeded it. However, with the
extension of the project through March 1996 and the devaluation of local currency (the
Birr) that took place during the project's implementation period a tariff increase became
long overdue. Although there were discussions about performing a tariff study, it never
took place.



-4-
11.   The project substantially achieved its original physical objectives for power
system development, though with a delay. It completed the following components in the
original project design: rehabilitation of generating plants; construction and/or
rehabilitation of transmission lines, sub-stations and distribution lines; and general plant
investments such as the supply of additional vehicles and housing needed to implement
the investment prograrn. In addition, the project rehabilitated or replaced diesel
generating equipment and other parts of the system damaged during civil unrest, based on
a 1992 modification of the project. (Part II, Table 5).
Household /Biomass Energy Development
12.  In the household energy sub-sector, the project's objective was to develop and
implement least-cost plans to supply household energy products through free marketing
practices with substantial private sector participation. In so doing, the project sought to
ensure the sustainability of affordable cooking fuels, create private enterprises and
preserve the environment. The project provided components to: strengthen planning for
woody biomass development; implement pilot projects for producing crop residue
briquettes; design and modify oil-fired industrial plants to use the briquettes;
demonstrate and evaluate charcoal production on a commercial scale; and test new
cooking appliances and other techniques for efficiency improvement.
13.   The project's objectives were justified given the important role household
biomass fuels played in the energy sector and the fact that the household energy
component was the first of its kind for IDA in Ethiopia. Biomass fuels for household
energy, mainly fuelwood crop residues and dung used for cooking, accounted for about
92 percent of total energy consumption. Although the demand for modem energy was
growing rapidly and substitution of electricity and petroleum fuels was taking place,
biomass fuels were still expected to account for over 90 percent of fuel use in the medium
term (1986-92).
14.   Demand pressures combined with inadequate and inefficient wood fuel
production, marketing, and infrastructure were responsible for the high cost of household
cooking fuels and the acceleration of forest depletion. Fuelwood prices were increasing
in real terms at around 9 percent per year. Environmental damage was alarming:
Ethiopia's forests had declined from 40 percent of the land area in the early 1900s to
only 3 percent by 1982. Forecasts had indicated that without investments in managed
biomass development, increases in biomass consumption would greatly increase soil
erosion and loss of food production.
15.   The project was successful in developing an information base and strategy for
managing biomass resources and household energy development. It completed a woody
biomass survey and set up a management information system to provide a technical basis
for planning. The biomass survey covered 375,000 km , exceeding the original objective



of 250,000 km2. The project also developed a computerized system for modeling
environmental stress of various biomass development activities.
16.   The Biomass Fuel Systems Marketing Review provided important information for
developing strategies to disseminate efficient stoves and improved charcoal production
technology. The review found that most urban households in Addis Ababa were using a
combination of fuels depending on the type of food preparation. The main distinction in
food preparation is between fuel used for making inj era, the popular Ethiopian bread, and
other foods. The project found that: (a) charcoal met about 50 percent of non-injera
cooking needs and the improved Lakech stove was economic and effective in reducing
charcoal consumption by 25 percent; (b) cooking with electricity was cheaper than
cooking with biomass but the high cost of the stove made it affordable only for higher
income households; and (c) for injera cooking, the enclosed biomass mtad reduced
biomass consumption by 23 percent and was economic for urban households but only
marginally economic for rural households.
17.   The project's marketing survey indicated the need for a charcoal demonstration
project, finding that over 80 percent of charcoal produced in Ethiopia came from informal
charcoal production using inefficient kilns. However, the project did not establish the
technical and economic viability of efficient charcoal production on a commercial scale.
A dispute between the consultant and the implementing agency for the charcoal
component delayed implementation. Ultimately the Government of Ethiopia (GOE)
decided to divert funds originally allocated to the charcoal component to the emergency
reconstruction and rehabilitation of the power sector and seek donor financing for the
charcoal demonstration project. This financing never materialized. The pilot testing of
the crop fuel briquetting operations produced mixed technical results depending on the
type of crop used and did not fully establish the economic viability of the processes and
interest of the private sector in them.
Petroleum Supply Options
18.   The project did not complete studies to determine the most economic petroleum
supply option or upgrade liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) production as originally planned.
Ethiopia's refinery was producing too much fuel oil and not enough of the petroleum
products more in demand -- diesel oil, kerosene, and LPG. Studies were necessary to
determine whether to invest in modifying the refinery or close it down and import
petroleum products instead. It was also important to evaluate the most efficient mode of
transporting petroleum products. The main transport mode for these products was
overland, by truck, for a distance of 950 km. The process was expensive, time
consuming and risky in terms of safety. Preliminary investigations had indicated that a
product pipeline not only would be competitive economically with truck transport but
would have additional security and environmental benefits. However, GOE did not show
interest in completing this evaluation or the study or the short-term upgrading of LPG
production from the refinery.



-6-
Industrial Energy Efficiency
19.   The project partially achieved its objective of demonstrating and implementing
improvements in energy efficiency of selected energy-intensive industries. It produced
energy audits of 15 such enterprises. These audits indicated that most industries would
benefit from improved housekeeping measures and that investments in firther
technological improvements could be economically and financially viable for some
industries. However, it appears that the implementation of housekeeping measures did
not take place apparently because it was not a high priority for plant managers and there
was insufficient financing.
C.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
The Implementation Record
20.   The SAR for the project estimated that the execution of the project's physical
components would take place during 1987-91, with the anticipated closing date of the
Credit as March 31, 1992 (Part II, Table 5). However there was considerable delay in
project implementation due to prevailing country conditions, and IDA extended the
closing date three times. Most of the components were completed during the period
1987-95, except for the woody biomass component which extended into 1996. The
project closed March 31, 1996. IDA disbursed a total of US$ 64.7 million (Part II,
Table 4), which in US dollar terms was higher than the appraisal estimated due to the
devaluation of the US $ relative to the SDR, the currency of the original credit. A
restructuring of the project took place during 1992 to support GOE's emergency
rehabilitation and construction program to finance additional generators, consumer
connection materials, transmission and distribution equipment vehicles and computers in
facilities affected by the civil unrest.
Factors Affecting Project Implementation
21.   Factors not Subject to Control by the Borrower and Implementing Agencies.
The major external factors that affected the implementation of the Energy I Project were
the civil unrest, the change in government, and currency devaluation. Periods of civil
unrest and war disrupted project implementation, through communications delays and
restricted access to certain parts of the country where some of the project's activities
originally were supposed to take place. The change of govermnent in 1991 resulted in an
emergency rehabilitation and reconstruction program and IDA modified the project to
finance important reconstruction work in the electric power sector. The devaluation of
the Birr made foreign expenditures more costly and increased EELPA's debt service,



- 7 -
further eroding the adequacy of tariff levels. Also the devaluation of the US dollar
relative to the Danish krona led to the need for additional funds from Danish International
Aid Agency (DANIDA) which was providing financing for the project's household
energy components.
22.   Factors Subject to the Control of the Borrower and Implementing Agencies.
These factors were: the staffing of the Project Management Units (PMUs) for the
electricity and household energy components; the complexity of the PMU for the
household energy components; delays in procurement and the construction of training
facilities at the University of Addis Ababa; and the reluctance of GOE to address the
petroleum transport issue. The project provided for two PMUs: one to supervise
electricity components and another in charge of the various components related to
household energy. Initially manpower deficiencies in the PMUs and other duties of the
PMU managers obstructed the development of comprehensive work programs. At the
request of IDA, GOE released the PMU managers from other duties, allowing them to
give full attention to the project and strengthen the PMUs with additional staff.
23.   The PMUs' lack of familiarity with IDA's procurement procedures also caused
delays and led IDA to intensify the frequency of supervision missions in order to provide
this assistance. Also the complexity of the PMU for household fuels complicated project
coordination and led to delays. Since there was no single entity in charge of household
energy and biomass fuels, the PMU had to supervise several project implementation units
spread among different ministries. Major delays in completing of training facilities at
Addis Ababa University were due to: inadequate supervision by the PMU; insufficient
coordination among the University, the PMU and the contractor; and the lack of essential
construction materials.
24.   GOE was slow clearing its arrears with EELPA and reviewing tariffs to ensure
their adequacy, making it difficult for EELPA to meet some of the project's financial
objectives. Also GOE did not take an active stance to ensure the completion of the study
on petroleum supply options. Project supervision reports indicated that GOE hesitated to
proceed with the petroleum pipeline feasibility study because it would detract from the
Asseb Addis railway, noting that the Ministers of Energy and Transport were reluctant to
address the issue and authorize work.
D.   PERFORMANCE OF IDA
25.  IDA's performance overall was satisfactory. The cooperation between ESMAP
and IDA's project divisions proved to be very effective in project design. Although IDA
did an adequate evaluation of the technical risks of the project but it could have given
more attention to the institutional risks due to the Borrower's lack of project experience.
With hindsight, the project probably had too many components, considering that it was
the first energy project in the country and the PMUs were inexperienced. In project
implementation, IDA was very responsive to the Borrower's needs by: fielding extra



- 8 -
supervision missions to minimize procurement problems; agreeing to restructure the
project to address the Borrower's reconstruction needs through the ERRP; and extending
the credit closing date to take into account implementation delays caused by factions not
subject to the Borrower's control.
E.  PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
26.   Given the difficult country conditions and the pilot nature of the project for
Ethiopia, the performance of the Borrower and its implementing agencies overall was
satisfactory. GOE showed a commitment to the project and although there were some
difficulties and delays in implementation, GOE responded to most of IDA's suggestions
to improve project implementation performance. The Borrower and implementing
agencies complied with most of the project's covenants, except for some covenants
governing EELPA's financial performance. The main deficiencies were the lack of
sufficient attention to helping EELPA meet it's financial objectives; delays in providing
IDA with audit reports and financial statements; delays in implementing a tariff study;
and the lack of action to determine the least-cost petroleum supply option.
F.    PROJECT OUTCOME, SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
27.   The project's outcome overall was satisfactory. It made a substantial
contribution to improving EELPA's planning and management capability; implemented
priority investments in the electric power sector; and made significant progress in
developing an effective household energy strategy. Also the actions in the project's
operational plan (Appendix B), and the proposed Energy II project should make the
sustainability of the project's achievements likely. They also could help achieve
objectives which the first energy project was unable to achieve: improving the financial
performance of EELPA; demonstrating the financial viability of improved charcoal
commercial production; evaluating the most viable option for petroleum supply and
upgrading the production of LPG. The ongoing Calub Gas Project will provide for the
development of LPG as a household fuel. The proposed Energy II project incorporates
some of the key actions of the operational plan. Its objectives are to further increase the
efficiency and sustainability of Ethiopia's power sector; expand the use of electricity for
greater economic growth and quality of life; and improve the efficiency of renewable
energy production and consumption.
G.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.   The key lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a)   The energy assessments prepared under the Joint UNDP/Bank Energy
Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) played a crucial role in
the design of both the Energy I project and the Energy II projects. Such



-9 -
pre-investment assistance is particularly important where the World Bank
Group does not have a recent history of operations.
(b)   It is important to keep the design of energy projects simple and avoid
complex implementation arrangements, even within a single sub-sector.
This is especially important in countries which have not had recent
experience with IDA-financed projects and have deficiencies in qualified
manpower. IDA has incorporated this lesson in the design of the Energy II
project by: focusing on generation in the electric power sector, leaving
distribution for a subsequent project; and confining household energy
components to further woody biomass assessment and the strengthening of
the GOE's capability to deal with rural energy development, two aspects
of the Energy I project that were very successful.
(c)   The project's experience in producing briquettes from crop residues had
mixed results and did not lead to ongoing productive enterprises.
However, some private organizations reportedly have been producing
crop residue briquettes successfully for many years. The next strategic
step, as the 1994 Energy Assessment recommends, should be to conduct
an evaluation of private sector interest in owning and operating
briquetting plants.
(d)   A key element in a successful improved stove dissemination program is to
pay detailed attention to producer capabilities, quality control, and
consumer preferences.
(e)   The implementation of viable industrial energy efficiency improvements
requires follow-up efforts to train staff and may require the provision of
special financing mechanisms to implement them.
(f)    Addis Ababa is experiencing a transition from traditional biomass fuels to
modem fuels. This process began in the mid 1980s and is likely to
continue throughout the 1 990s. In many developing countries there is a
tendency to separate energy into traditional biomass fuels and modem
fuels such as kerosene, LPG, and electricity. However, household energy
use is beginning to have a major impact on the electricity load in Addis
Ababa and is likely to affect the demand for other fuels. The same pattern
may occur in other urban areas as well. It is therefore important to
maintain an integrated approach evaluating the potential substitution
effects of changes in energy pricing and the availability of improved
stoves.
(g)   The project's experience suggests that the private sector is appropriate
agent for the production of briquettes from crop wastes. It is important,
however, to further assess market potential of these energy sources;



- 10-
request the private sector to submit proposals; and assist entrepreneurs in
securing financing.
(h)   In the management of a project such as Energy I, project managers need to
devote full time to their project management duties and should not have
any other duties in the government, especially during the start-up phase.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND APPENDICES



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND APPENDICES
Tables:
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits/Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation - Not applicable
Table 7:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9A:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9B:    Major Assumptions
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements - Not applicable
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
Appendix A: Borrower's Review of the Project
Appendix B: Project Operational Plan



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment        Substantial    Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Categories
Macroeconomic Policies                                                   X
Sector Policies                          X
Financial Objectives                     X
Institutional               X
development
Physical objectives         X
Gender concerns                                                          X
Other social objectives                                                  X
Environmental               X
Public sector                            X
management
Private sector                           X
development
Other
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                    Uncertain                   Unlikely
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project    Highly Satisfactory |    Satisfactory       Deficient
Cycle        _____________        ____________       ____._.._I
Identification                                  X
Preparation                                     X
Appraisal                                       X
Supervision                                     X



Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project    Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory          Deficient
Cycle
Preparation                                     X
Implementation                                  X
Covenant                                                              X
Compliance
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly        Satisfactory     Marginally     Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
x



Table 2: Related Bank Credits and Loans
Preceding Operations
Title                Awash II and III Hydro
Loan no.            : 375-ET
Year of approval    :1964
Amount
Purpose
Status              : Closed.
Title               : Finchaa Hydroelectric Project
Loan no.            : 596-ET
Year of approval    :1969
Amount
Purpose
Status              : Closed.
Title               : Petroleum Exploration
Credit no.          : 1386-ET
Year of approval    : 1983
Amount              : US$ 7.0 million
Purpose             : Promote the exploration of petroleum potential, acquire and improve
seismic data, study potential uses of natural gas and geothermal energy.
Status              : Closed.
Following Operations
Title               : Energy II
Credit no.          : NA
Year of approval    : Not yet approved.
Amount              : US$200.0 million
Purpose             : Under preparation.
Status              : To help finance the Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric project and support the
Government's restructuring of the power sector.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned              Date actual/estimate
Identification                        March 1984                   March 1984
Preparation                     March - November 1984         March - November 1984
Appraisal                           November 1984                November 1984
Negotiations                                                       March 1986
Letter of development policy             NA                            NA
Board presentation                                                May 20, 1986
Signing                                                          October 15, 1986
Effectiveness                      February 15, 1987             March 16, 1987
Project completion                 October 30, 1993              October 30, 1995
Credit closing                      March31, 1993                March 31, 1995
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY 87  FY 881 FY 89  FY 90  FY91  FY 92 | FY 93 | FY 94  FY 95 | FY 96
Appraisal estimate         5.6    21.7   40.9   55.2   60.8   62.0   62.0   62.0   62.0   62.0
Actual                     --      3.5   14.9   20.6   31.1   38.4   45.8   51.0   64.4   64.7
Actual as % of estimate    --  I16     36         37      51     62      74      82    103*   104*
Date of Final disbursement
Source: Bank MIS and staff estimates.
* Actual disbursements in US$ terms are slightly higher than estimated disbursements because during the
project implementation period the US$ depreciated in value relative to the SDR, the currency in which IDA
made the Credit.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in the SAR/President's    Estimated           Actual
Report                         Completion Dates   Completion Dates
Power Sector Components Rehabilitation of generation    June 1990       February 1994 to
facilities                                                                March 1995
Rehabilitation of transmission lines                    June 1990           1991-93
Expansion of substations                             September 1990    December 1992 to
January 1995
Rehabilitation of the distribution system               June 1991
Purchase of vehicles for EELPA                          April 1989          1988-89
Provision of housing for technical assistance           July 1988         March 1992
Completion of the organizational and manpower        December 1990    March 1988 to
development program                                                     October 1989
Completion of the feasibility study for interconnection  December 1987   December 1987
with Sudan
Completion of distribution planning and design studies  December 1990    December 1990
Energy Components                                     September 1991       March 1995
Completion of facilities for producing crop residue
briquettes and industrial modifications necessary for
utilization .
Completion of facilities and training for demonstrating the    September 1991  Not done
viability of charcoal production on a commercial scale
Provision of equipment and training for testing new fuels    September 1991  March 1993
for household use and improving end-use efficiency.
Development of a strategic energy planning unit and an  August 1990        March 1995
inventory of woody biomass resources
Completion of energy sector studies including :a review  August 1988        Not done
of petroleum supply options, upgrading of LPG supply;
and a study on improving industrial energy efficiency.
Other indicators:
Additional diesel generator sets and transformer capacity               September 1991 to
under the Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction                  November 1994
Program (ERRP)
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable . The preparation of the project's SAR took place before the development of
these indicators had become part of the appraisal process.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study       J       Purpose       J               Status and Impact
Power Sub-sector     Prepare a diagnostic    Completed. During Phase I, EELPA implemented the
Organizational       evaluation of EELPA's  recommendations by appointing Four Deputy General
Improvement          organizational        Managers and 13 department directors. Also some
improvement needs    divisional managers were assigned. Phase II consisted
and implement the    of job training for the Salary Works Organization
recommendations of    Division and coaching of higher management on the
the study            improvement objectives and tasks for specific
functions. Did not result in any adjustment of the
salary scale which was 24 years old. Financial policies
and procedures were developed and four staff
members were sent to Canada for training.
Electricity          Execution of a        Completed. Ethiopia and Sudan reached an agreement
Interconnection with   feasibility study for a    in 1991 for review of the feasibility work and
Neighboring Countries  high-voltage electricity  subsequent activities which the African Development
interconnection      Bank was to Finance.
between Ethiopia and
Sudan
Distribution Planning   Provision of a     .Completed. The result was an upgrading of 700 km
and Design           distribution planning    of 15-kV distribution. A study of various network
and design method,   altematives led to standard conductor size.
including the necessary  Transformer stations on wood poles were developed
computer equipment    and system protection improved. About 30 percent of
and software packages.  the system's 3600 km network was plotted on a
Updating of existing    topographic map. Earthing systems and safety
drawings for the     regulations developed. Comprehensive studies on
distribution systems of  voltage drop improvements and loss reduction found
Addis Ababa and other  that substantial investment in distribution systems is
major cities         needed to improve service quality.
Other Energy Sector   Detailed review of   Study not completed.
Studies              petroleum supply
options and short-term
upgrading of LPG
Petroleum Supply     supply from the
Options              refinery
Industrial Energy    Evaluation of energy    Evaluation of 15 industries completed and indicated
Efficiency           efficiency upgrading in  possible energy savings through improved
local industries,    housekeeping and investments in energy saving
including preliminary   technology. However, implementation has been
design improvements   constrained by the lack of sufficient management
for 20 large industries  interest.
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                 Appraisal Estimate (USSmm)         |   Estimated Actual Costs (US$mm) 2L
Local     Foreign costs     Total         Local        Foreign        Total
costs                       costs         costs         costs         Costs
Civil Works, equipment,
materials and installation
-Total                    8.7           30.1          38.8          23.0          40.3          63.3
Institution-building        1.1           4.6           5.7           2.9           6.1            9.0
Studies                     0.3           1.6           1.9           0.8           2.1            2.9
Engineering/admin.          2.1           0.8           2.9           5.6            1.1           6.7
Total base cost             12.2          37.1          49.3
Contingencies               3.4           7.4           10.8                         _
Duties and taxes            6.4                         6.4
Total cost                  22.0          45.5          67.5
Int. during construction    7.0                         7.0                            -
Financing required          29.0          45.5          74.5          32.3          49.6          81.9
Civil works, equipment,.
materials and installation
for crop residue
briquetting and charcoal
production.
-Total                    3.1           7.9           11.0          5.4           10.6          15.1
Inst.-building and studies
2.6           7.9          10.5           4.5          10.6           15.1
Engineering
administration              0.5           2.5           3.0           0.9            3.4           4.3
Total base cost             6.2           18.3          24.5          10.8          24.6          35.4
Contingencies               1.8           4.0           5.8
Duties and taxes            1.7                          1.7
Int. during construction                  0.3           0.3                          -             -
Financing required          9.7           22.6          32.3          10.8          24.6          35.4
_________________                       _.                                           _ .'
Base cost                   18.4          55.4          73.8           -
Project preparation                        1.0           1.0
Contingencies               5.2           11.4          16.6
Duties and taxes            8.1           0.0           8.1
Total costs                 31.7          67.8          99.5
Int. during construction    7.0           0.3           7.3
Total financing required    38.7          68.1          106.8         43.1          74.2          117.3
Source: Bank MIS and staff estimates.
9/ Actual project costs were not available for ICR preparation. Estimate actual costs based on actual
financing by IDA and Danida and percentages allocated to various components and local financing in
SAR.



Table 8B: Project Financing
Source  J       Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimate
Local    Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign    Total
costs     costs      Costs      costs     costs      costs
IDA                      62.0       62.0                 64.7       64.7
DANIDA                   5.8         5.8                 9.2        9.2
Government    9.7        0.3        10.0      10.5       0.3        10.8
EELPA         29.0                 29.0       32.6                  32.6
Total         38.7       68.1      106.8      43.1       74.2      117.3
Table 9A Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal Report did not calculate an internal economic rate of return (ERR) on
the project as a whole. However, it indicated a 7 percent ERR on the investment
program which the project financed indicating that it would increase to 12 percent if all
power could be sold. It also indicated ERRs of 31-33 percent on the project's individual
transmission components and an 11-30 percent rate of return for charcoal products. For
the electricity components, IDA made repeated attempts (between August 1996 and June
1997) to obtain the necessary information to re-estimate the ERRs calculated at appraisal.
The information received allowed only a very rough approximation of the ERR for the
portion of the power system investment program that IDA financed and did not permit a
re-estimation of the ERRs on the various transmission components. Table 9, Part B lists
the main assumptions for the ERR analysis on the investment program. Since total
investment cost data was not available, this analysis estimated two ERRs: one based on
the disbursement information that EELPA provided and another using the disbursement
data and assuming that EELPA contributed the same percentage of costs estimated at
appraisal. On the basis of the disbursement data alone, the re-estimated ERR was 4 %
and with the assumption of the EELPA contribution it declines to 1 %. The ERRs are
below the appraisal estimate mainly due to lower incremental sales than originally
assumed which resulted form internal conflict conditions, during project implementation,
that constrained demand and resulted in some damaged capacity. No ERR was calculated
on charcoal production because this component was dropped from the project.



Table 9B: Major Assumptions
Item                     SAR                               ICR
Investment Costs  Based the FY 85-92 expansion    Based on disbursement infromation
program. Uses 1984 prices        provided by EELPA for 1988-95, n
excluding duties taxes and price  given in current Birr, deflated to 1984
escalation but including physical  prices using GDP deflator at factor cost.
contingencies.
Operating and    Calculated as a % of cumulative  Same factors as in SAR applied to the
maintenance      capital costs as follows:        cumulative capital cost for each type of
costs                      2%                     investment. Covers the period 1989-
generation: 2%                   2029.
transmission: 1.5%
distribution: 5%
general plant: 2 %
Covers the period 1984-2029 2029
Marginal         50% of average customer costs at    No actual customer cost available.
customer        the time of appraisal.            Used the same costs specified in the
administrative                                    SAR.
costs
Fuel' costs      Calculation not specified in the SAR  Based on the share of diesel generation
(9% of incremental sales) valued at the
cost of diesel oil supplied by EELPA
Benefits:        Based on incremental sales resulting  Based on incremental sales and tariff
Incremental sales  from the rehabilitation/expansion  data provided by EELPA, for the years
revenues         program valued at projected tariffs.   1989-2029, deflated to 1984 prices
using a GDP deflator at factor cost.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreementt    Covenant   Status                 Covenant Description and Comments
Section       Type
DCA/3.01      Management   C    Borrower commits to project objectives, to carry out the project with
aspects           due diligence and efficiency, and cause EELPA to perform its
obligations in line with the PA.
DCA/ 4.01 (a)    Financial   C    Borrower to maintain adequate records, in accordance with sound
performance         accounting practices.
DCA/4.02        Financial    CP    Borrower to enable EELPA to adjust its electricity tariffs for electricity
performance         and meet its obligations under Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the PA.
PA/2.01       Management   C    EELPA to pursue project objectives as set forth in Schedule 2 of the
____ __  aspects        DCA.
PA12.02 (a)    Management   C    Procurement to be governed by Schedule 3 of the DCA.
aspects
PA/2.02(b)    Management   C    EELPA to employ a Project Manager with qualifications acceptable to
aspects          IDA.
PA/2.03       Management   C    EELPA to perform obligations set forth in the General Conditions.
aspects
PA/2.04       Management    C    EELPA to perform all of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
aspects           Agreement.
PA12.05       Management   C    EELPA to exchange views on project progress at the request of IDA and
aspects           promptly inforn IDA of any condition interfering with progress.
PA/2.06       Management    C    EELPA to provide IDA, by December 31, 1986, with a draft agreement
aspects          for University of Addis Ababa to carry out Part F (2) (i), (ii) and (iii) of
the Project. After review of the agreement, EELPA shall proceed with
the implementation of the above sections of the Project.
PA13.01 (a)    Management   C    EELPA to perform its operations in accordance with sound
aspects           administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices under
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
adequate competent staff.
PA/3.0l(b),(c)  Management   DC   EELPA to complete manpower and organization study, (Part F I of the
aspects           Project) by October 31, 1986. EELPA to consult with IDA on a plan to
implement the study's recommendations.
PA/3.02       Management   C    In accordance with sound engineering and financial practices, EELPA to
aspects           operate and maintain plant, machinery, equipment and other property
and make necessary repairs.
PA 3.03       Management   C    EELPA to take out and maintain insurance appropriate to the risks in its
aspects           operations.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement/    Covenant   Status                 Covenant Description and Comments
Section        Type
PA 3.04         Financial    PC    EELPA to take the necessary measures to reduce accounts receivable to
performance         no more than 90 days of sales by June 7, 1987.
PA 4.01(a)      Accounts/     C    EELPA to maintain records and accounts in accordance with sound
audits           accounting practices.
PA/4.01(bXi)    Accounts/     C    EELPA to have accounts and financial statements audited, each fiscal
audits           year, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
PA/4.01(bXii)   Accounts/     C    EELPA to furnish provisional financial statements to IDA as soon as
audits            available, according to the following fulfillment schedule by fiscal year:
9 months after FY86; 7 months after FY 87; 4 moths after FY 88
and other FY s during the project's implementation period.
PA/4.01 (b)     Accounts/    DC   EELPA to furnish IDA with certified copies of financial statements and
(iii)            audits            audit report as soon as available but no later than the time periods
specified for each FY in the PA, as follows: 13 months after FY 86; 9
months after FY 87; and 6 months after FY 88.
PA/4.01 (b)     Accounts/     C    Furnish to IDA other reasonable inforrnation concerning financial
(iv)             audits            statements and audits.
PA/4.01 (c)     Accounts/     C    EELPA to maintain separate records for the Credit account, retain all
audits           records I year after the closing date, enable IDA to examine records and
ensure such separate accounts are included in the annual audit, along
with a separate opinion of the auditors on the use of expenditures for the
intended purpose.
PA/4.02 (a)     Revenue      PC   EELPA to produce funds from internal sources for capital expenditures
generation         according to following minimum specified percentages by FY: 15 %
for FY 88; 20% for FY 89; and 25% for each FY thereafter.
PA/4.02 (b)     Revenue       C    EELPA to review, with IDA, before March 31 of each fiscal year,
(c)             generation         whether it will meet cash generation targets and take all necessary
l                - |  measures to meet requirements.
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Abbreviations: (a) for time periods, FY = fiscal year; mo. = month(b) for agreements, DCA =
Development Credit Agreement and PA = Project Agreement; and (b) for covenant status, C = complied
with; CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; and NC = not complied with.



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable to this project.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of         Planned a/                Actual
project cycle
Weeks      000US$      Weeks       000US$
Through
appraisal                               66.2        125.1
Appraisal                               108.8       250.7
Negotiations
through
Board
approval                                28.5        52.8
Supervision      --          --         127.8       342.1
Completion      6--          --          60          4.6
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
a/ Planned information not available on a consistent enough basis during the project
Cycle, to allow for a meaningful comparison with actual figures.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project    Month   Number      Days      Specialized   Performance   Types of
cycle         /Year      of       in field    staff skills   rating      problems/
__________ _  _   [persons       represented                   Notes
Through appraisal    6/94       5         17       EC,ES, 2PE,      NA           NA
Pre-appraisal                                      FA, CON
Appraisal through
Board approval
Appraisal           11/84       5         22       PE,ES,FA,         NA           NA
TS,EC
Post-appraisal      03/85       3          11      PE,ES,FA          NA          COF
Supervision
Preparation for     05/86       1         NS       ES                NA           SP
implementation
Supervision 1       10/86       3          11      ES, EN, OM         I
Supervision 2       01/87       3          19      ES, EN, OM         1          EFF
Supervision 3       04/87       1          10      ES                 I
Supervision 4       09/87       3          10      PE, OM, FA         I           M
Supervision 5       11/87       3          13      ES, FA, PR         I           M
Supervision 6       05/88       2          13      ES, FA             1           M
Supervision 7      10-11/88     2          13      FA,PE              I           M
Supervision 8        05-        1         NS       PE                NR            I
06/89
Supervision 9                   3          11      FA, OA, PE         2       FS, M, LC,
09-                                                         DO
Supervision 10      10/90       1         NS       PE.               NR
Supervision 11      11/91       1         NS       PE                NR           AF
Supervision 12      05/92       3          4       PE, FA,            2         FS, LC
FAS
Supervision 13      11/92       3          8                         2          FS, FP
PE, FA,
04/93                         FAS
Completion        I
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
There was no completion mission for this project.



Appendix A
ETHIOPIAN ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER AUTHORITY
WORLD BANK ENERGY I PROJECT
POWER SUBSECTOR
IDA CREDIT No 1704 ET AND ERRP
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Prepared Bv:- GEBRENIESKEL HA[LE
DGNI - SERVICES
PROJECT CO-ORDINATOR
MIAY 1995



ETHIOPIAN ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER AUTHORITY
ENERGY I PROJECT
POWER SUBSECTOR
IDA CREDIT NO. 1704-ET
AND
E RR P
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The power Subsector comprises the implementation of high
priority projects included in EELPA investment program for the
period 1989 - 1995 including the closing date extension
brought about by the then prevailing conditions in the country
unfavourable for the timely implementation of the Project. The
Project comprises, the rehabilitation of Generation Plants,
rehabilitation and extension of Distribution systems, a
comprehensive   manpower   development   and  organizational
improvement program, power studies needed to support sound
Distribution expansion and operation including the pre-
feasibility study of a possible inter connection with the
Sudan.
The implementation of the project was two years behind
schedule. The schedule was reviewed for adjustment of
disbursement to be completed before the contract closing date
of March 31, 1994. This did not materialize and it gave rise
to the need of. extending the closing date to March 31, 1995.
2.   CONTRACT AGREEMENTS
i.   Contract Agreement between the Ethiopian Government and
the International Development Association was signed on
October 15, 1986.
ii.  Subsidiary contract Agreement between the Ministry of
Finance and the Ethiopian Electric light and Power
Authority was signed on January 31. 1987.
iii. Effective date: March 16,1987
*i
iv. a)  Original closing date March 31, 1934
(b) Revised closing date March 31,1995
3. ~'IDA Credit 1704 - ET
Original credit to  EELPA   SDR  39.09 Mill.  USD 45.50 Mill.
ERRP transfer from Energy
Project                       SDR   6.87         USD  8.00 Mill
Total         45.96             53.50
(at an exchange rate of 1  SDR= 1.1639 USD)
ERRP - Credit No. 2351 - ET --------------- USD 3 Million



1
PART A. GENERATION REHABILITATION
I.   Rehabilitation of Koka, Awash II and III, Finchaa and Tis
Abbay, Hydro Electric Power Plants to bring them to their
full operational condition and Provision of spare parts
in the inter-connected system(ICS).
II.   Rehabilitation of about 20 small diesel generating plants
to bring them to their full operational condition and
provision of spare parts, in the self contained
system(SCS).
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
I. Generation Rehabilitation(ICS)
a) Koka HPP
As part of the Rehabilitation Program for Koka Hydroelectric
Power Plant the dam intake new trash rack cleaning equipment
has successfully been completed at the end of February 1994.
Spare parts for 10.5/132 kv switch gear, generator voltage
regulation, and Turbine control systems have been delivered,
as a result the units have been reconditioned and reliable
power supply is achieved.
b) Finchaa HPP
The Finchaa Penstock movement has been studied and problem
identified by consultants from PITEAU ENGINEERING LTD. The
proposed remedial solution is under implementation. Spare
parts for rehabilitation of the Power Plant are delivered to
site. The air conditioning units are effective in regulating
the room temperature which could cause abnormal temperature
rise on generators and Turbines. Essential spare parts for
Turbine, governor, inlet valve, and penstock valve have been
incorporated into the system and reconditioning of the units
has been maintained. Some items are kept in stock for
emergency purposes. Substantial reliability and availability
of power supply has been achieved.
The proposal made by NORD through the Association, about the
possibility of providing some financing in conjunction with
the rehabilitation of Finchaa HPP, during the IDA Credit 1704
- ET extension period did not materialize.
However, as hinted out, EELPA has carried out a detailed
analysis of the subject matter and prepared Rehabilitation
document which was sent to the Association in Oct. 18 - 1994
for review.



2
c) Melka Wakena HPP
The frequent breakdown of the 230 kv switch gear compressor
equipment has been rectified after the replacement of the
piston rings and associated fast moving parts. the supply of
compressed air necessary for the switching of the 230 kv air
blast circuit breakers and disconnectors is enhanced. The
installation of the canal flow regulation has improved the
regulation system of the water discharge and power supply has
become more reliable at the Power Plant. Submersible pumps
have been installed to increase effective water leakage
removal from the Turbines.
d) Tis Abbay HPP      -
The Power Plant is in its poorest condition. It is an aged
plant, the Turbine part of the units are aged, cavitated with
highly deteriorated sealings and excessive water leakage.
Spare parts required for the rehabilitation of obsolete 45 kv
switch gear have been delivered to site. The erection of the
electromechanical equipment has not started as yet.
The Power Plant was constructed by INGRA - ENGINEERING AND
CONSTRUCTION CO. Upon the approval of the Association, EELPA
approached INGRA for the supply of spare parts for the
turbines, regulating equipment, Inlet Butterfly Valves,
submersible pump units. After having completed the purchase
processes INGRA notified EELPA that the spare parts have to be
manufactured and the process would take longer time than
anticipated. That would lie between six to nine months beyond
the closing date of March 31 - 1995. The price of the spare
parts was USD 785, 007.60 including freight and insurance
(CIF). EELPA went to the extent of agreeing to pay 100%
against Bank guarantee for partial shipment to be delivered
before the closing date and that was not possible on the part
of the supplier.
e)   AWASH II HPP
The two turbines that were malfunctioning due to aging were
repaired and an idle running test performed at the end of
March 1995. The IDA credit has greatly helped to have
sufficient spare parts available for rehabilitation of the
-plant   including  cooling   system  filter  equipment  the
installation of which helped to improve the cooling system of
the plant. The two generator unit each of 16MW output are
expected to operate at full capacity.



3
f)   AWASH III HPP
On December 1991 heavy short circuit damaged the stator
windings of generator unit II including two (2 x 20/6/20 MVA
Capacity 2 x 10.5/15/132 KV) generator block transformers.
Subsequently, at the request of the Authority the Association
approved the purchase of the windings and transformers. The
transformers were delivered to site in June 26, 1994 and they
are already installed and made ready for commissioning.
The stator windings were delivered to site in March 25,1995
and replacement works is under way. Commissioning is scheduled
to start soon.
Lately, 230KV switch gear Equipment for MELKA WAKENA HPP and
Heat exchangers for KOKA HPP arrived in February 23,1995 and
March 25,1995 respectively.



4
PART A. GENERATION
II.  GENERATION REHABILITATION IN SELF CONTAINED SYSTEM
EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM (ERRP)
IDA CREDIT 1704 - ET
ACCOMPLISHMENT.
Under the Emergency Recovery and Construction Program, _ELPA
has implemented a procurement plan Erection of D-esel
Generating sets with the associated o.4/15 XV step up indoor
substations at 16 towns in different Regions of the Auth^rity
in the self contained system.
The completion period of the physical implementation, the
generating sets capacities with the associated Transformers
and the locations (sites) at which the erection work took
placed are indicated in Table I.



Table I
Deisel Generator Sets Erection
Under ERRP - CR._1704 - ET
Serial |                     |   Diesel Generator Set              Step up Transformer                 Year of                          R e m  a r k s
No.           Site                  Capacity and                        Capacity                Completion  and
I .   . i,,  . .                Q~~~~~~uantity                 andl 4unt                  Commissioning__ .                     _,..I
I    Ahi Adi              11x 181.SKVA                       I x.ISKVA                      'Feb. 1994               PNcwPovxr Stalion
2    Adigrat              ,I x S.UI+ I x89)KVA               I xPX1)KVA                     tMalrch 1992              Old Powcr Swiaion
August I9 1 I xX()9 KVA
iSLt delivered to sitc
Alcm Kcitemia            1 x 187.5 KVA                      I x 315 KVA                    August 1992       .       New Power Station
!   4    :Asahilal    I l x .K() lVA                      x 31S KVA                                               In August 1X94 the Set delivcred to site
4Erection will start carly April 1J)S9
S    A%sosa                I x 187.5 KVA                     I x 315 KVA                     April 19(4               Old Pomer Station
6    IAxuI                 I x 55) + I x X)) KVA            I x 81X) KVA                    Ociolber 1P92            Old Power Station
7     Dupli                Ix .0U) KVA                       Ix 315 KVA                                               New Power Station
In August 19'4 the set delivered to site
Erection will start earlyApril 1995
8    1Korem               i2 x 55i) + I x 187.S KVA          2 x 8(  + I x 2( KVA            Augusl 19(2              !New Powcr Station
9     ULalihcha           1I x 187.S KVA                     I x 315 KVA                    1AugusL 193               New Power Station
1(1    Mdthel Mcda        'I x 187.s KVA                      I x 315 KVA                    AuLutS1 1992             New Power Slation
II   |Mckete                 x s 55 + I '8tY) KVA            I xK(M) KVA                     Sept. 1(91 -Nov.l' l)3   Old Power Station
tn AUILgust 1994 Ix80( I(VA
Additional set delivered to sate
12   lNef is Mc%what       I x 187.5 KVA                      I x 315 KVA                    Fcl. 199'Y                Ncw Povwer Station
13    Negelle Borcna       I x8' KVA                         I x 31s KVA                                              01(O Power Slation
In August 1994 set delivered to site
_ ___ _ _                                                                                   __ _. _. __ _ . . _ _ _ ___ . _ .____ Ercclion a_vErection will start April 1995



Cont'd Table I
Diesel Generator Sets Erection
Under ERRP _ CR. 1704 - ET
ISerial  '      ~         |   Diesel Generator Set              Step Up Trans-                Year of                      R e m a r k s
INo.            Site                Capacity and                 former Capacity             Completion
is !a,                                 Quantity                   and Quantity           and Commissiong
14   Shire EndaclassNe   I x 150 + I x39 KVA           1I x 2(X IKVA                June 1992              In August1994 I 0Wx3O  set
,                                                                                                     deliwred to sitc
Old Power Station
15  jSokoi;a             I x 187.5 KVA                  I x 315 KVA                1May e993               New Power Station
16  jTepi               1I x 3M KVA                     I x 315 lVA                                        New Power Station
Erection will
start in April 1995



7
PART B. TRANSMISSION LINES
ACCOMPLISHMENT.
The construction of 100 Km of 66 kv transmission line between
Sebeta and Woliso was completed and interconnected with the
grid system early April 1991.    The construction of another
100 km 66kv transmission line between Dessie and Woldia is
also completed and the line is in operation since February
1193.
Construction of 20 km of 123 kv transmission line between
Kaliti and Cottobie Substations in Addis Abeba is completed in
late 1993 and interconnected with the grid system.   The
construction of 6 km of 132 kv transmission between Dire Dawa
I and Dire  Dawa  II Substation  is also finalized.   The
implementation of this project component is accomplished in
compliance with the plan.
Connection of Kaliti, Sabbata and Gafarsa Substation by 230 kv
transmission line and connection of Sabbata and Makanisa by
132 kv transmission have been foreseen.
The material supply is financed by IDA Credit 1704 - ET and
the goods are delivered to site and kept in store until funds
are available for the construction works of the transmission
lines and substations in the 1995/1996 fiscal year.



8
Part C. Substations
I.   Construction of new substation at Kaliti II, Bole. Akaki
and Dire Dawa II and expansion of existing substations
of Cottobe and Kaliti I.
II.  Construction of new substations at Woliso, Woldia and
expansion and rehabilitation of existing substation of
Addis South, Bahr Dar Tis Abbay and Sabbata.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
The Construction of a new 132/15 KV 2x20 KVA Transformer
substation at Bole (Weregenu) was completed and put into
operation in early Dec. 1992.    Earlier, in 1991 Kaliti II
132/45/15 KV 1x20 MVA Transformer bay was completed.
At Dire Dawa town, the construction of Dire Dawa II 132/15
KV - 2x20 MVA transformer substation was completed at the
beginning of Dec. 1994.    Similarly, Akaki (kaliti North)
132/15 KV - 2x20 MVA transformer substation was completed in
late June 1994.
After the completion of the 132 KV transmission line between
Kaliti and Cottobie substations, expansion works on out going
and in coming bays followed and the construction was completed
in early June 1994.
In the North Eastern Region, construction of a ne.v 66/5 Ky 2x3
MVA transformer substation at Woldia was completed and put
into operation in early February 1993.
Following the completion of the 66 KV transmission between
Sabbata and Waliso, at Sabbata 45/66 KV one auto transformer
bay and at Woliso 66/15 KV, 2x3 MVA transformer substation
were completed in Dec. 1992.
At Debre-Zeit, about 50 KM South-East of Addis Abeba a new
132/15 KV 2x20 MVA substation was completed in May 1994. The
132 KV in coming line to the substation was tapped from the
132 KV Koka-Addis Abeba line No II.
At Dire Dawa I (old substation), one 132/66 KV - lx12 MVA
transformer bay and a 66 KV line bay and at Harar 66/15 KV
2x6.3 MVA transformer substation construction works are
completed in late Jan. 1995.
SABATTA - MAKANISSA PROJECT COMPONENT
M/S CEI of Italy could not supply the materials and equipment
for the Power Sub-Sector Project Component as per the contract
agreement. The information of their not being able to deliver
was received late in early Feb. 1995. They categorically
stated it was beyond their control.
On the other hand 132/15 KV 1x20 MVA transformer supplied by
M/S Pauwels International of Sweden is delivered to site.
Sabatta- Mekanissa 7 Km 132 KV transmission line materials
supplied by M/S ABB - SAE SADELIMI are delivered to site.
Also, Kaliti - Sabatta - Geferssa 25 Km of 230 KV line
materials supplied by M/S IVO had already been delivered to
site.



9
PART D. DISTRIBUTION
i)   Distribution expansion in interconnect system
ii) Distribution Rehabilitation in both inter connected and
self contained systems.
ACCOMPLISHMENT
out of the 1200 km of medium voltage (15kv) and low voltage
(400/200V) distribution expansions in Addis Ababa and other
major urban centres foreseen in the contract a total of 1180
km of distribution lines has been constructed and 858
Distribution transformers with a total capacity of 174,000 KVA
have been erected in the related networks.
In the rehabilitation program the Authority has effected
computer assisted distribution design training during 1988 and
1990.
A total of 495 km of existing distribution net works
rehabilitation works have been carried out in Addis Abeba
Bahir Dar, Jimma, Dire Dawa and Nazreth load centres.
Rehabilitation works included upgrading of conductor sizes,
replacement of insulators, poles, transformer capacities and
related accessories 171 pieces of transformers with a total
capacity of 46,000 KVA have been erected.
Emerrency Recovery anid Reconstruction Program (ERRP)
Distribution Systems
ERRP - Proiect Credit No. 2351 -ET
The power subsector component of ERRP Credit No. 2351 is
completed.  The total amount is USD 3 million.   The proceeds
of the credit is utilized for the procurement Distribution
materials and line-men tools.
ERRP - Credit No, 1704 - ET
The power subsector component of this program in Distribution
covers 20 regional small towns.
In-these areas, 679 km of medium 15 kv and low voltage 400/220
V. Lines of distribution networks have been constructed.
-About 640 street light points were installed and 89 pieces of
transformers with total capacity of 17, 200 KVA erected.



10
PART  E.  GENERAL PLANT
I.   Acquisition of about 80 vehicles an Vehicle spare parts.
II. Construction of 12 Dwelling Houses for Expatriate
Personnel of EELPA and Class Room Extension at the
Faculty of Technology in Addis Abeba University.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
I.   The Authority had acquired 64 vehicles in 1988 and 10
vehicles in 1989. The vehicles are allocated to various
functional areas of the Authority.
II.  The construction of 12 Dwelling Houses and the Class Room
Extension of the Faculty of Technology in the Addis Abeba
University was completed on mid March 1992.



11
Part F :- Organization and Manpower Development Program IOMDP)
I.   Organization Improvement Program (OIP)
II. Man Power Development (MPD)
III. Technical Assistance (TAP)
ACCOMPLISEMENT
ORGANIZATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Phase I : In Phase I the study was conducted by Ontario Hydro
of Canada, during the last quarter of 1987 through the third
quarter of 1988. the final Report was submitted and approved
at the end of 1988. Accordingly, the Authority started
implementation of the recommendations as of March 1989 with
the appointment of Four Deputy General Managers followed by
the appointment of Thirteen Department directors during June
1989. Considerable number of Division Managers were assigned
during July 1989.    -
Phase II : The program included on job training of the Salary
Works organization Division and coaching higher management
levels to study, understand and implement the recommendation
in line with the goals, objectives and implement the
recommendations in line with the goals, objectives and tasks
of the respective functions.Phase II of the OIP had been
implemented from February to October 1989. The orientation was
successfully conducted by a management consultant with the
help of EELPA staff. The orientation went down to the section
level in the hierarchy of the organizational structure.
However, it is to be noted that the OIP did not bring forth
any salary scale adjustment or revision of the salary scale
which was adopted about 24 years ago. Parallel with the above
activities EELPA's Financial Policies and Procedures were
developed by Ontario Hydro. Four EELPA staff members were sent
to canada on the OIP program.
II. Man Power Development
The Faculty of Technology in the Addis Abeba University
was required to train under graduate students student
under the terms of an agreement entered between the
University of Addis ababa and EELPA. The Faculty was
required to train a total of 300 students in Civil an
Electrical Engineering over the period 1986/87 - 1995.
Accordingly the first three batches of 50 students each
were-admitted to the Faculty during the 1986/87, 1987/,
1987/88 and 1988/89 academic years.   Since 1988/89 on-
-wards EELPA did not recruit student for admission to the
Faculty.   In connection with the implementation of the
agreement three staff members of the faculty were selected
for fellowships studies and sent abroad to pursue
doctoral studies in various specialities of Electrical
Engineering. Two of these who went to the USA during the
1988/89 academic year completed their studies one in Dec.
1992 and the other August 1993.   The third started his
studies in 1990 and completed in June 1994.
Cont'd...



12
III. Technical Assistance (Tav)
A Technical Assistance Program agreement was entered between
EELPA and Ontario Hydro of Canada.
The Program covered various work areas over the contract
agreement, Period.
a)  The first batch of four consultants have covered the
following areas over the period of two years.
-   The two in the Finance Department as Financial systen
specialist and Policy/Procedure developer the o.her two in
the Data Processing Division as Management Information
Service Consultant.
b)  The second of six consultant from Ontario Hydro covered
the areas of Man Power Planning, Customer Services
(developing policy and procedure), Financial operational
jobs, system operation in the Operation Department, and
Finchaa Penstock remedial programme.
The third final batch of three consultants covered a
consultancy service of 12 months starting October 1993 in
the areas of Electrical Inspection, Vehicle Maintenance
and Technical Vocational Training.



13
PART G.   POWER SUBSECTOR STUDIES
I.   Preparation of a feasibility study for a high voltage
inter connection between Ethiopia and Sudan.
II.        Updating existing distribution system drawing of
Addis Abeba and other major cities in Ethiopia and
preparation of a distribution planning and design
method and provision of computer equipment and
software packages needed.
ACCOMPLISHMENT
I.   Under IDA Credit 1704 - ET Program, IVO International
completed the feasibility study for high voltage inter
connection between Ethiopia and Sudan in 1987.
In another development, an agreement between the two
countries was reached in 1991 for the review of the
feasibility study and subsequent stages of activities to
be financed by ADB.
II.   An upgrading study of 700 km 15 kv distribution network
in Addis Abeba was carried out. Single line diagram of
the network was plotted on the Addis Abeba Topographic
Map.   Various network  alternatives were studied and
consequently conductor sizes standard were set up
including the option of application of aerial bundled
conductors. Design on associated 15/0.4 kv transformer
netstations on wood poles was developed and protection
system improved.
Similarly about 30% of the total 3600 km network of the
main distribution system was plotted on the Topographic
Map. Comprehensive studies on voltage drop improvements
and loss reduction were carried out. Earthing systems and
safety regulations were further developed.



14
MAJOR PROBLEMS
A) PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION
The commencement of the implementation of the Project
was two years behind schedule. The delay was brought
about by the then prevailing country wide
unfavourable conditions for the project
implementation.    The  schedule  was  reviewed  for
disbursement to be completed before the closing date
of March 31, 1994. This did not materialize.
Consequently an extension requested was submitted by
EELPA through the Ministry of Mines and Energy and
Ministry of External Economic Co-operation to the
Association.   The Association approved the request
and established March 31, 1995 as the later date for
the extension.
In the mean time about 3 months temporary suspension
occurred in our purchase operations for fear the L/C
validity periods might extend beyond the li' closing
date if the extension could not be approved.
High time elapsed on the one year credit extension
which made foreign purchase process time tight. In
effect EELPA was obliged to limit the procurement of
equipment and material to only those that require
short delivery time.
B) PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
In the implementation of the project a lot of
tendering, awarding and contracting for procurement
of equipment, materials and services was necessary,
The process took much longer time than expected
during appraisal.   Although, IDA Tendering process
was substantially adhered to, purchase approvals,
clarification and explanation for disbursement by
telephone, telex and fax messages took longer time
than necessary.
Delivery of equipment and materials to site go
through several stages.
-Obtaining import permits from the National Bank of
Ethiopia takes a long time.
Cont'd...



15
-Receiving of shipping documents necessary for
clearance, from the Foreign Negotiating Bank through
the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia and custom clearance
through Maritime in Addis Abeba as well as at Assab
Port take a lot of precious project implementation
time.
C)  PRICE INCREASES
Some suppliers demanded 10 to 15% in prices increase
due to L/C expiring dates during the extension
negotiating periods and as a result some purchase
orders were cancelled.
Delay in obtaining " No objection " reply from the
Association usually results in price increases, tight
manufacturing period and delayed delivery.
L/C extension operations entail significant bank
charges and delayed delivery.



16
D)   Contract No. 33.3/48 Date 09 JUlY 1993
Trainina, Installation and Commissioninc Consulting
Services
In the above cited contract for purchase of 5x890
KVA and 5x309 KVA Diesel Generator Sets, M/S FLOHR &
Co.'s demand on prices increase in the contract has never
been accepted by EELPA and there was no ground to have
been approved by IDA as commented on a fax message of 15
May 1995 from Disbursement Division - LOAN DEPARTMENT.
In response to their demand EELPA rejected their
proposal long before the Diesel Generator Sets were
manufactured.   In addition EELPA strongly advised them
that the purchase could be cancelled if they insisted on
prices  increase-.  To  this  effect,  M/S FLOHR & Co.
accepted EELPA advice and confirmed by their fax message
28 April 1994 and the sets were shipped accordingly.
Regarding,   Training   of   EELPA  Personnel  and
commissioning Consulting Services M/S FLOHR & Co. have
defaulted to meet their contractual obligation and it had
been terminated.
E)   Purchase Order No. 3209
L/C No. 05/16884 Date 2/12/1994
M/S AKAI - IMPEX were not able to deliver the ANGTE IRONS
on time and they could not meet the contractual
obligations. They defaulted and the purchase was
cancelled.



ANNEX 1                                  17
ETIOPIAN ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER AUTHORITY
---------------------------------------------
IDA CREDIT 1704-EET ENERGY 1-POWER SUB-SECTROR
-------------------------------------------__-
DISBURSEMENT EFFECTED FROM 1988-199A1f'
------------------------------------
SIMIMARY
YEAR         SDR-             BIRR              USD
1988        821384.38        2337787.85        1125448.01
1989       7297110.56        19700663.84       955570,0.44
1990       4157761.64        11174160.62       h364999.20
199i       7302166.15       21014542.38       10181721.38
1992       3061776.38         8730391.66       4202050.88
1993       4065683.71       24928881.77        5749108.83
1994       6592257.78       59929869.54        9627540.84
1995       4710325.37       45098033.76        7058138.42
TOTAL       38008465.97       192914331.42      52864708.00
Less Bal. in S/A         40107.32          601608.98         95493.49
Total-Disb-re--379683-8.5-19231--22.4   -52-6--1-.5
Total Disbhursed      37968358.65       192312722.44      52769214.51



18
ETHIOPIAN ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER AUTHORITY
IDA CREDIT 1704-ET - ENERGY I - POWER SUB-SECTOR
J     DISBURSEMENT EFFECTED IN 1988
APPLICATION CURRENCY APPLIED  AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN  SUB-PRoTECT       CATEGORY
NO.                          S  D  R    B I R R   U.S DOLLAR
WA    08    USD   194201.16   140121.48   402687.13   194534.85 OMDP           (F)   4A
WA    12    USD    25469.00    18461.57    52781.28    25498.20 OMDP           (F)   4A
WA    13     DM    62750.00    26998.35    77187.77    37212.91 OMDP           (F)   4A
S/C   4A    JPY 73704935.00   428287.24  1221973.73   586770.66 GENERAL PLANT(EI   3A
S/C   4B    JPY 13102753.00    76604.60   216451.74   104404.41 GENERAL PLANT(E)   3A
WA    17    USD    30636.00    22428.79    63341.17    30555.19 OMPD           (F)   4A
S/C   9A    USD   145949.50   108482.35   303365.03   146471.79 S ISTATIO'A  (Ci   2A
TOTAL DISBURSED - JULY 7/88   821384.38  2337787.85  1125448.01



1989                                    1 9
APPLICATION CUTRRENCY APPLIED  AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN  SUIB-PROJECT       CATEGORY
NO.                          S  D  R    B I R R    U.S DOLLAR
S/C  14A      DM    224553.00   93434.91   252365.54   121968.06 DISTRIBUTION (D)   2A
S/C  6      JPY  15068632.00   87326.39   237294.62   113945.22 GENERAL PLANTI(F)    3A
S/C  5      USD    814479.00  624348.44  1687075.02   815380.33 DISTRIBUTION (D)    2A
S/C  14B      DM    309985.00  128340.37   345146.14   165144.53 DISTRIBUTION (D)    2A
WA   24      CAD     35742.00   22629.30    60862.66    29570.6J O.MODP          (F)    4A
S/C  19A    SKR    783211.00   93496.63   249232.47   120677.04 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C  27A    USD      37153.80   28903.01    76995.42    37171.29 DISTRIBUTTON (D))   2A
S/C  15     USD    508579.00  390379.80  1049873.77   508579.00 DISTRIBUTION (D)    2A
WA   25     USD      88021.61   67227.77   181242.50    88021.6J OMD)P           (F)    4A
S/C  27B    USD      53121.30   41034.88   109934.74    53002.29 DISTRIBUTION (D)    2A
WA   29      USD     29843.90   23120.11    6J816.12    29843.90 ONDP            (F)    4A
WA   23    UISD    214808.21  165840.47   444652.99   214808.21 REPLINSHMENT
SIC  IOA    USD      41117.06   31824.85    86089.94    41117.06 TRANSMISSION (B)   2A
S/C  11A    USD    130555.40   99603.27   271877.68   130555.40 SUBSTATION   (C)    2A
S/C  IOAA                        31423.80    86053.64    41672.05 TRANSMISSION (B)    2A
S/C  27C    USD    197223.90  148796.04   408224.32   197549.06 D ISTRBUTtON 10D    2A
S/C  14C    DM      160331.00   67228.85   185619.33    89625.47 DTSTRBITION  (D)    2A
S/C  IIAA                       98870.96   271254.06   13L266.03 SIUBSTATION    (C)    2A
S/C  18A    SWF      26169.00   12928.62    35994.14    17466.96 GENERATION   iA)    2A
S/C  20A    SWF    154168.00   76165.70   2l2050.41   102902.15 SUBSTATION    C)    2A
S/C  14D    DM      132690.00   56334.42   159459.08    77033.38 DISTRBUTION  (bi    2A
S/C  7      ASH   3014160.00  180771.37   511291.21   247555.54 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C  26       DM    128557.16   54338.37   153888.98    74639.19 DISTRBUTION  (D)   2A
S/C  32A       F    402294.00   49648.71   140741.23    67926.37 TRANSMISSION (B)    2A
S/C  18     SWF    192260.00   97679.54   275234.08   132904.74 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C  9B    U.SD   1167596.00  871717.96  2429880.69  1173785.66 SUBSTATION   (-)   2A
WA   39     USD      37231.48   28044.14    77017.90    37300.95 OMDP            (F)    2A
S/C  lOB    USD      94113.58   71988.15   195184.83    94113.58 TRANSMISSION- (B)    2A
S/C  IOAB   ECU      83167.86   71150.11   192912.71    93671.96 TRANSMISSION 1B)    2A
SUB-TOTAL         3814596.94 10449266.22  5049217.64
----------------------- ------ ------- _   ___ 



1989. Cont'd                                    2u
APPLICATION CURRENCY APPLIED  AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN   AMOUTINT 'I-N  SUB-PRO,JECT     CATEGORY
NO.                           S  D  R    B I R R   U.S DOLLAR
S/C  28      ASH  352150.00      20498.42    56140.58    27093.37 GE.ERATION   (A)    34
S/C  LOC    USD  144832.86    109647.73   300588.84   144832.86 TRANSMISSIO:N (B)    2x
S/C  IOAC   ECU  127988.32    110547.88   303056.5l   146837.43 TR A:'.SMI SSION IB)    2A
S/C  22      USD   26402.00      20050.44    54609.84    26402.00 GENERATTON   (Al    34
S/C  32B      F   370953.60      44803.31   121320.64    58707.57 TRANSMISSION tB)    24
S/C  IOD    USD   89990.07       68766.86   185944.15    89990.00 TRANSMISSION iB)    2A
S/C  IOAD   ECU   79523.92       67891.66   183577.62    88606.08 TRANSMISSIO rB)    24 
SIC  31A    USD  472447.78    361025.94   976206.56   472447.78 DISTRIBUTIOb ID)    2A
S/C  34A    STG' 121083.19    159466.45   427460.50   206773.77 GENERATION   (A)    3A
S/C  38A    STG   20525.39       26942.19    72834.38    34889.06 GENERATION   (A)    31
S/C  19      SKR 1958029.00    235355.00   636248.82   304775.31 GENERATION   (A)    2A
WA  45      USD  457777.00    352195.76   947831.69   457777.00 OMDP              lF)    2A
WA  44      USD   19800.00      15233.35    40996.10    19800.00 OMDP             (F)    4A
S/C IIAB    ECU  317288.05    271663.32   732468.69   352230.51 SUBSTATION   fC)    2A
S/C  32C'     F    80032.00       9745.65    26276.58    12635.92 TRANSMISSION iB)    5A
S/C  JIB    USD  361787.97    278129.27   746471.15   361787.97 SUBSTATION   iC)    24
S/C  IIAC   ECU  191884.81    164648.14   443882.66   214556.29 SUBSTATION   iC)    9A
S/C  IIC    USD  218796.82    167940.38   454604.36   218796.82 SUBSTATION   !C)    2A
S/C  14      DM    52738.00      21713.62    57988.18    28002.97 DISTRIBUTION fD)    2A
S/C  33      SWF  128630.00      59205.68   157078.57    76383.61 GENERATION   !E)    9A
S/C  32D      F  2764648.16    336270.36   898471.70   433738.33 TRANSMISSION 1B)    2A
S/C  37      STG   12572.30      16364.59    43407.04    21049.61 GENERATION   iE)   3.k
SiC  36       F   354660.00      43198.30   113324.35    54746.07 GENERATION   fEi    3A
SiC  2uB    SWF  519375.05    238481.38   625620.61   302232.22 SUBSTATION   ;C)    2A
S/C  42A    USD   23730.00        18899.66    49122.35    23730.60 SUBSTATION    C)    34
S/C  16A    NKR 2257250.00    252925.28   653868.25   314026.97 GENE-RATION I       )(   2A
S/C  IID    USD)  13632.68       10903.00    28137.48    13632.68 SVBST1TION   i 0        9A
SUB - TOTAL       3482513.62  9251397.62  4506482.80
TOTAL DISBURSED - JUlLY 7/89  7297110.56 19700663.84  9555700.44



1990                                     21
APPLIC'ATION CURRENCY APPLIED  AMOUNT IN   AMOtlNT IN   MOUNT IN  SUB-PROJEcT          CATEGORY
NO.                           S  D  R    B I R R   U.s DOLLAR
S/C  IIAD   ECU       11955.87   10102.61    26218.72       12666.05 SUBSTATION    (C)   2A
S/C  21A    SWF    215346.00  102545.00   266129.09   128564.77 GENERATION    (4)   3A
S/C  41      USD    243470.00  189247.57   500525.30   242636.20 DISTRBUTION   tr)  24
S/C  I1h    USD      80955.37   63344.16   167453.83    80799.91 SUBSTUTION    (C)   2A
S/C:  IIAE   ECU      70997.86   61385.06   162274.84    78300.95 SUBSTUTION    (C)   24
S/C  llF    USD        4036.39   11055.38    28925.04       14082.67 SUBSTUTION    IC)   2A
SIC  IIAF   ECU       12309.92   10661.25    27893.85    13580.62 SUBSTUTION    (C)   24
SIC  32E    F       401614.60   49186.98   128357.70    62169.88 TRANSMISSION  (B)   2A
S/C  31B    USD    465868.13  351645.69   937372.34   465868.13 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
S/C  21B    SWF       8305.00    3992.20    10417.9L         5101.35 GENERATION    (A)  3A
WA    49    SKR    469482.00   56788.14   146968.67    70918.73 GENERATION    (A)  2A
S/C   21    SWF        3020.00    1429.15-    3657.93        1767.12 GENERATION    (A)   3A
S/C  31C    USD        3863.94    3L13.62      7975.93       3863.94 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
S/C   9      USD    145949.50  115448.11   304868.44   145949.50 SUlBSTATION    (C)  2A
S/C  IIACT  ECU       39837.49   34997.04    92026.89    44318.86 SUBSTATION    (C)   2A
S/C  I1G    USD      45424.73   35537.85    93448.98    45003.36 SIJBSTATION    (C)   2A
WA   48A    USO    264450.00  210613.76   557418.80   264964.75 OMDP                (F)   2A
S/C  46      JPY  15247000.00   84254.50   222991.33   105997.22 GENERAL PLANT (E)   3A
S/C  34B    GBP       13691.93   16940.39    44547.92    21659.47 GENERATION    (A)   3A
S/C  47A    USD      84116.99   65709.73   173708.67    84235.93 DISTRBIITIOfN  (D)   2A
S/C  20C    SWF    803215.08  388231.07  1028335.59   497692.82 SUBSTATION    (C)   2A
S/C  20      SWF     64921.88   31413.03    82883.44    39974.03 SlUBSTATION    (Cl   2A
S/C  38      GBP    127494.86  156881.82   412806.58   199734.09 GENERATION    (A)   3A
S/C  llH    USD    214580.20  162020.39   443794.59   214096.98 SUBSTATION    (C)   2A
S/C  11AH   ECU    188186.83  169852.81   465248.59   224446.90 SUBSTATION    (C)   2A
S/C  51      SWF    140000.00   68049.64   184580.91    88951.77 GENERATION    (A)   2A
WA   53      usr)    82722.87   62359.25   170688.62    82722.87 OMDP               (F)   2A
SUB-TOTAL         2516806.20  6691320.50  3240068.87



1990. Cont'd                                     29
APPLICATION CURRENCY APPLIED  AMOUiNT IN   AMOUNT IN   AMOIINT I?i SUB-lFROJECT         CATE,.-DRY
NO.                           S  D  R    B I R R   U.S DOLLAR
WA 56 & 57  CAD    344341.01  225145.54   616063.94   297615.39 OMDP                  IF)   4A
WA   55      SEK    204671.00   25176.14    68899.02    33279.82 GENERATTON    (A)
WA   55      SEE    24t682.00   29728.78    81357.78    39297.90 GENEiRATION    tA)   4;
WA   54      USD    141034.00  106259.09   290269.76   141034.00 OMDP                 (F)   4.
S/C  11-I   liSD      34386.80   25988.79    71594.39    34399.02 SUBSTATION    (C)   ZA
S/C  II-AI  ECU       30157.22   27489.27    75727.94    36385.07 SUBSTATION    (C)   2.
S/C  42      ATS   4419840.00  283154.83   779307.22   336505.69 GENERATION    (A)   2
S/C  11-J   USD       34018.13   25545.45    70011.90    33945.30 SUBSTATIOJN    (C)   2.
S/C  IIAJ   ECIJ      29833.90   27525.44    75438.42    36576.36 SUiBSTATIOlN    (C)   2A
WA   60      USD      74067.00   55619.60   152435.53    73908.43 OMDP                (F)   4A
SIC  35A    ITL  75174000.00   45771.34   124763.38    60272.16 GENERATION    (A)   3A
S/C  30      DM      264234.00  118676.37   321293.96    155057.80 GENERATION    (A)   24
S/C  50      ATS   3121200.00  200169.89   537832.67   259822.52 GENERATION    tA)   2A
SIC  59A    GBP    128321.62  162800.39   447841.73   215884.71 GENERATION    fA)   3;
WA   65      USD      77612.00   58546.21   160117.09    77612.00 OMDP                iF)   41
WA   64      CAD      42860.18   27501.14    75091.18    36334.50 OMDP                lF)   44
42B    USD      27448.80   20775.66    56727.42    27448.80 GENERATION    (           .I A
WA   75      CAT)     67165.42   43624.34   118348.52        57235.13 OMDP            tF)   4
WA   74      CAD    108583.38   70577.90   l91032.57    92497.98 OMOP                 tF)  4A
42C    USD)    53796.00   41072.23   111672.27    53796.00 GENERATION    (A)   3:
S/C  IIK    USD      26021.75   19807.04    54013.34    26021.75 SUBSTATION    ;C)   2-
SUB - TOTAL       1640955.44  4479840.03  2124930.33
TOA-DSU-E--JL-7--4576-4-1716.2-34992
TOTAL DISBURSED) - JULY- 7/90  4157761.64 11174160.62  536i4999.20



1991                                    23
APPLICATION CURRENCY APPLIED  AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN  SUB-PROJECT         CATEGORY
NO.                          S  D  R    B I R R   U.S DOLLAR
S/C     lIE USD       8344.1]    6154.19    17113.30       8269.81 SUBSTATION   (C)    2A
SIC     IlL ECU       7317.78    6829.75    18991.86       9177.61 SUBSTATION   (C)    2A
WA      66  USD    301352.64  224433.16   623799.96   301352.64 REPLINSHMENT
S/C     72  SEK    999600.00  124669.36   347126.63   167694.01 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C     71  SEK    178075.00   22405.68    62669.08    30127.58 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C     73  SEK      31950.00    4020.00    11205.51       5405.45 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C     68  GBP       9554.38   12977.15    36640.48    17613.50 GENERATION   (A)    2A
WA      75  CAD      67165.42   42698.59   121034.31    58310.91 ObDP            (F)    4A
WA      77  USD      21771.95   J6009.17    45113.45    21771.95 OMDP            (F)    4A
WA      78  liSD     75563.00   54879.20   156644.12    75563.00 OMDP            (F)    4A
S/C     52  SWF    206301.00  115632.21   333237.58   161424.88 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C     62  DM       16208.73    7456.2-3    21414.91    10281.47 GENERATION   (A)    2A
WA 82 & 83  CAD    287227.89  176858.42   512846.97   246494.65 OMDP             (F)    4A
S/C     35  ITL  81040000.00   49889.33   144334.52    69726.82 GENERATION   (A)    3A
S/C     63  DM      295492.82  135494.36   401043.25   194134.96 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C     89  USD      12574.00    8698.23    25825.59    12574.00 GENERATION   (A)    2A
WA      94  USD      84600.00   58595.63   175742.54    84600.00 OMDP            (F)   4A
WA 92 & 93  CAD    111701.60   66483.41   199399.90    96021.32 OCDP             (F)    4A
S/C    84   FRF    381830.00   52767.46   158262.44    76455.30 DISTRBUTION  ()i   2A
S/C    86A  GBP    307178.13  413780.21  1233815.63   596170.38 GENERATION   (A)    2A
SIC    90   GBP      45376.47   61L23.77   182259.72    88066.51 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C    91   GBP      14500.00   19532.03    58240.88    28141.56 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C    81A  USD    704171.01  489011.04  1454080.69   704171.01 DISTRBUTION  cr)    2A
S/C    80A  FIM   2875804.20  551097.99  1601587.75   774970.52 DISTRBUTION  (D)    2A
S/C    67   GBP      50389.36   68050.58   198234.68    95800.25 GENERAIION   (A)   2A
S/C    69   GBP       8625.54   11648.75    33933.3R    16398.88 GESERATION   (A)    2A
S/C    70   GBP      L7868.23   24130.96    70295.67    33971.08 GENERATION   (A)   2A
WA     107  CAD    107654.70   64202.45   193256.50    93323.40 OMD)P            (F)    4A
WA     106  USD    413807.30  281942.39   856581.11   413807.30 REPLINSHMENT
S/C    61A  DM      361182.46  170327.37   492276.25   246743.04 GENERATION   (A)    2A
SIC    63B  DM       74478.66   35122.84   105023.51    50880.35 GENERATION   (A)   2A
S/C    85A  USD   1260035.00  869627.21  2600339.28  1260035.00 DISTRBUTION  (D)    2A
siC    61   DM       93900.74   44281.96   132410.40    64148.61 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C    63C  DM       43150.00   20348.79    60846.49    29478.07 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C    83A  FRF      74058.23   10159.32    30199.63    14594.57 DISIRBUTION  (D)    2A
S/C    86   GBP      57753.33   77968.59   228065.61   109776.65 GENERATION   (A)    2A
S/C    84B  FRF   1491840.00  199753.53   577508.82   278144.80 DISTRBUTJON  (D)    24
-------OTA-45906131-352402.0 -64566.8
-EiB -TOTAL       4599061.31 13521402.40  6545616.86
,      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-



1991, Cont'd                                     24
APPLICATION CURRENCY APPLIED  AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN  SUE-:FROJECT          CATEGORY
NO.                           S  D  R    B I R R   U.S DOLLAR
S/C    99A  DM        120492.0   54882.04   157880.26    76489.64 DISTRBUTION          -D1   2A
S/C   102A  FIM       598080.0  112415.70   320081.90   154612.16 DISTRRUTION   cD)   2A
S/C    79A  USD        24011.0   17860.12    50234.72    24267.98 DISTRBUTION   fD)  -2A
S/C    85   USD    1310800.0  964064.55  2691523.62  1310800.00 DISTF.iUTION   iD)   2'A
S/C    96A  JPY   19174790.0  103403.56   285829.78    l39250.47 GENERAL PLANT CE)   3A
S/C    88A  DM         13301.8    5694.82    1580J.00        7613.24 GFNERATION    (A)   2A
S/C   104A  DM        273480.0  118482.57   329748.13   158744.54 DIST .RBUTION iD)   2A
S/C    96B  JPY   22074385.0  118360.33   329407.92   158580.35 GENERAL PLANT (E)   3A
S/C    83B  FRF       592465.8   75672.69   209871.17   101861.50 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
SIC    84C  FRF    1562800.0  199608.61   553595.92   268689.16 DISTR:UTTON   iD)   2A
S/C    95A  JPY   32627243.0  176562.15   486692.69   237541.42 GENERAL PLANT (E)   3A
S/C    76   SWF       345868.0  173242.65   473877.38   230658.73 GENERATION    (A)   2A
S/C    88   DM         32384.7   13976.71    38231.04       18608.87 GENERATION    (A)   2A
S/C    95B  JPY    8457070.0   45317.49   123696.04    59859.43 GENERAL PLANT (E)   3A
SIC   104   DII        41900.0   17577.57    47877.95    23106.07 DITrSTBUTION   I0)   2A
S/C   105   USD       127000.0   96388.10   263131.42   127000.00 DISTREUTION   MD)   2A
S/C    98   JPY   74282565.0  409595.18  L115659.04   538421.06 GENERAL PLANT tE)   3A
SUB - TOTAL       2703104.84  7493139.98  3636104.52
TOTAL DISBURSED - JULY 7/91  7302166.15 21014542.38 10181721.38



1992                                    25
APPLICATION CURRENCY APPLIED  AMfOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT TN  SUB-PROJECT          CATEGORY
NO.                           8  D  R    B I R 8     IJ.8 DOLLAR
S/C  99A    DMI    125209.80   52354.83   141625.94    68435.61 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
S/C  95B    JPY  27224757.00  150422.68   410876.55   197280.85 GENERAL PLAN.T (E)   3A
S/C  99A    DM        13388.00    5736.30    15813.51        7639.38 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
S/C  99      DM       12157.20    5211.65    14395.02        6950.94 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
S/C  99A    DM      529518.60  226998.76   626989.64   302755.06 DISTRBUTION   ID)   2A
S/C  97      JPY  11441845.00   62682.11   172847.80    83565.91 GENERAL PLANT CE)   3A
S/C  99      DM       58835.40   25604.00    71566.28    34573.08 DISTRBUTION  113)  2A
S/C  99      DM        1755.00      76.5.70    2143.96       1037.93 DISTRBUTION  (C)   2A
S/C  96B    JPY   8655120.00   47462.32   132849.49    64390.71 GENERAL PLANT (E)   3A
S/C  Ll      USD    294815.15  214220.08   607945.66   293693.56 SUBSTATION    (C)   2A
42D    USD      80489.40   58485.62   165979.21    79987.85 GENERATION    (A)   3A
S/C  83B    FRF       74058.23    9462.42    26675.43    12949.89 DISTRBiUTION   (DI   2A
S/C  96C    JPY    111959.00        627.88      1765.76       853.02 GENERAL PLANT CE)   3A
WA   112    USD       62883.39   45677.52   130661.09    62883.39 SUIBSTATION   (C)   24
S/C  109    FIM    804855.65  133319.41   384005.63   185572.61 DISTRBUTTON   (Dr   2A
WA   108    USD    232877.85  170210.24   482057.14   232877.85 REPLINSHMENT
WA   115    CAD    106181.77   64314.31   185923.54    90109.50 OMDP                (F)   4A
S/C  101    USD)    14596.29   10593.93    30484.34    14726.73 DISTRBUTION   (DI   2A
S/C  103    USD    114720.00   82988.42   237050.95   114517.37 DISTRBUTION   fD)   2A
S/C   10    USD      41117.02   29709.39    84923.82    41026.00 TRANSMISSION  (B)   2A
------------------------------------
SUB - TOTAL       1396847.57  3926580.76  1895827.24
------------------------------------
S/C   79B   USD       197424.0  144313.66   407251.71   197424.00 DISTRBUTION   (D)   24
SIC   116   USD       161573.9  117923.21   334422.45   161573.96 SUBSTUTION    (C)   2A
S/C   101   USD        75736.7   54731.12   155705.93    75736.73 DISTRBUTTON   /D)   2A
S/C   101   USD        23385.5   17005.46    48268.02    23385.54 DISTRBUTION   CD)   2A
S/C   111   JPY    4468024.0   24444.05    69095.21    33293.77 GENERAL PLAMT (E)   34
SIC   116   USD       373646.0  274737.08   776596.16   373646.04 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
S/C  lOAD   XEU        33581.5   30431.70    86029.13    41555.70 TRANSMISSION  (D)   2A
S/C   117   bM        301060.8  133020.28   378262.06   182205.86 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
S/C   79C   USD         8766.0    6374.95    447106.60       8766.00 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
S/C   120   SGD       522932.0  231214.86   665556.84   321962.06 DISTRBUTION   (D)   2A
SIC   116   USD       103760.0   74759.13   214668.08   103760.00 DISTRBIU'TION   CD)   2A
S/C   121   BEF    4850850.0  104141.28   301008.09   144462.71 DISTRBUTION   (D)   24
S/C   123   USD       132957.2   94780.32   275503.27    32-957.20 DISTRRIUTION   (D)   2A
S/C   122   USD       451144.7  319144.61   934433.72   451144.76 DISIRBUTION   (Di   2A
S/C   119   ITL   62300000.0   37908.10   112303.59    54449.31 DISTRBUTION   (DI   2A
SUB : TOTAL       1664928.81  4803810.90  2306223.64
TOTAL DISBURSED - JlULY 7/92  3061776.38  8730391.66  4202050.88



L99.3                               26
APPLICATION  CURRENCY APPLIED    AMOUNT IN  AMOUNT IN   AMOUiNT IN SUB-PROJECT :.ATEGGRY
NO.                              S  O  R   B I RR    U.8 soLLAR
S/C114A      USD    952455.00    644847.97  1972900.11   952455.00 DISTRIBUJTION   2A
S/C118       FRF   1712713.00    239006.87   731281.43   347864.93 DISTRIBUTION   2A
SC/11i       USO    352265.00    243769.51  1752312.75   352265.00 DISTRIBUTION   2A
S/C 79       USD      9909.00       7075.52    49771.68       9909.00 DISTRIBUTIO-N  2A
S/C131       ITL 132000000.00      70656.69   498002.48    99404.78 DISTRIBUTION   2A
S/t122       USD    183252.32    132542.85   918899.70   183252.32 DISTRIBUTION   2A
S/C130       ITL 114184000.00      59045.97   413699.69    82036.10 DISTRIBUTION   2A
S/C114       UJsD)   754960.00    542127.68  3764073.81   754960.00 DISTRTBUTION   2A
S/C103       USD     14340.00      10360.87    71757.83    14340.00 DISTRIBUTION  2A
S/C126       GBP    170838. Li    186791.55  1285891.71   256812.23 GENERATION        3A
S/C 97       JPY   2027961.00      11820;82    81259.86    16374.08 GENRAL PLANT   3A
S/C129       USD    202100.00    147275.21  1011228.41   202100.00 DISTRIBUJTION   2A
S/C126       GBP     62635.63      70398.66   483698.63    96584.14 GENERATION        3A
S/C125       USD     24921.56      18090.96   125431.86    24921.56 DISTRIBUTION   3A
WA 134       U)50    301365.24    218765.79  1506825.95   301365.24 REPLINSHMENT
S/C127       DM     225148.80    101758.56   705975.45   141630.62 SUBSTATION         2A
S/C 84       FRF    381830.00      49987.01   346844.87    69299.00 DISTRIBUTION   2A
W/A136       CAD    285818.91    L66190.36  1143082.22   228400.39 OMDP               44
S/C127       DEM    126621.10      55743.93   383203.29    76683.02 SUBSTATION        ZA
S/C102       FIM     74760.00       9139.6f3    62829.02    12572.75 DISTRIBUTION   2A
S/C]13       ATS   7598000.00    48J593.85  33834L3.51   677848.16 GENERATION    2A
S/X133       CHF    184550.00      88337.89   627322.69   124538.76 SUBSTATION        2A
S/C124       JPY  56651820.00    352423.11  2489710.68   497942.13 GENERATION         3A
S/C132       USD    145910.80    102176.85   724474.74   145910.00 SUBSTATION         2A
S/135       ITL 115000000.00      55755.60   394989.40    79639.62 DISTRIBUTION   2A
TOTAL DISBURSED JULY 7,1993    4065683.71 24928881.77  5749108.83



1994                                27
APPLICATION  CURRENCY APPLIED    AMOUNT IN  AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN SUB-PROJECT CATEGORY
NO.                              S  D  R   B I R R   U.S DOLLAR
W/A138       CAD    292198.97    158248.44  1237876.90   222204.54 OMDP  (F)           4A
W/A139       DEM    520105.80    221023.96  1595309.30   307285.19 GESER.(A)           2A
W/A141       ITL 323815792.00    144374.66  1039735.75   201022.94 SUBST.(C)           2X
W/A140       IJSD    202914.00    146378.57  1054682.90   202914.00 TRANS.(B)          2A
SfC137       GBP    319486.85    342021.62  2487657.60   481617.75 GENER.(A)           24
S/C143       ITL  99884876.00      43011.78   346746.00    59745.09 TRANS.(B)          2A
S/C145       BEF   6849392.00    138320.61  1109163.92   191257.29 DISTR.(D)           2A
S/C146       CHF     59332.00      29661.69   256428.63    41900.10 TRANS.(B)          2A
S/C147       CAD    117733.02      65130.77   515043.90    89262.37 OMDP  (F)          4A
S/C144       USD     75030.30      54753.79   433439.20    75119.46 DISTR.(D)          2A
S/C128       ATS   9528150.00    563893.30  4522959.70   777140.72 GENER.(A)           A
W/A156-157  CAD    132193.25       68172.30   581279.10    25920.74 O'rUP  (F)         4A
W/A158       CAD      34987.43      18170.00   155462.70    25402.41 OMDP  (F)         2A
S/C158       FIM      55944.00      7306.59    64947.50    10323.52 DISTR.(D)          2A
S/C160       CAD      30097.29      15456.69    44008.34   276812.40 OMDP  (F)         44
W/A161       CAD      30655.00      l5fi61.57   138151.40    22282.50 0MDP  (F)        4A
S/C150       USD    403445.70    285529.24  2535913.30   403445.70 DISTR.(D)           2A
W/A163       CAD     29093.40       14565.70   130899.60    21044.95 OMuP  (F)         4A
S/C149       ITL  56025344.00      24662.68   222550.80    35779.87 TRANS.(B)          2A
SfC115       BEF   7388106.00    152302.59  1338756.80   215928.52 DISTR.(D)           2A
SUB-OTAL250646.5 _181103.3    3686410.0
SUB-TOTAL           2508646.55 19811013.34  3686410.06



28
APPLICATION  CURRENT APPLIED  AMOUNT IN  AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN   SUB-PRO.JECT   CAT AGORY
NO.                           S D R        BIRR    U.S DOLLAR
W/A159        US     200598.00  143284.29  1259756.J0   200598.10 Renlinshement
W/A162        US      58040.67   41457.62   361012.97    58040.67  "             B
S/C149        ITL.343514160.00  150675.15  J363934.51   219282.07 TRANSMISS.(Bi   2A
S/C153        C:HF    5500.00   26856.60   244971.34    39384.46  *             (B)    ZA
S/C164        CAD     30169.87   15055.15   134737.62    21908.55 OMDP          (F)    4A
W/A16fi       CAD     27820.90   13855.86   124060.14    20139.63 OMDP          (F)    4A
S/C151        DEM   4575680.41 2012637.07 17968485.64  2921704.90 GENER.    (E)    2A
S/C168        liSD    112500.00   76567.17   696833.30   112211.48 GENER.    (E)    2A
SfC157        USD    391969.00  269995.41  2442625.25   393337.36 TRANS.    (B)    2A
S/C157        USD      17119.00   11726.11   106336.34    17119.00 TRANS.    (B)    2A
S/C156        USD    203549.79  140225.76  1255800.49   203549.79 DISTR.    (D)    2A
5/C15        BEF    195962.24  418049.-11  3827108.75   612337.39 DISTR.    (D)    2A
S/0157        USD    171215.00  116905.94  1070019.14   171215.00 DISTR.    (D)    2A
S/C160        FRF    314650.00   40752.48  3811026.20    60480.35 DISTR.   IDi   2A
S/C172        CAD     56888.00   28236.57   264612.90    42002.04 OM-DP         (F)   41
SfC155        BEF    195962.40  418049.11  3827108.75   612337.39 DISTR.    tD)    2A
SfC159        FRF    325000.00   42448.45   397629.24    63115.75 DISTR.    (D)    2A
S/C157        USD     32615.00   2l924.92   205923.87    32615.00 DISTR.    (Di   2A
S/C157        USD      37597.00   25300.28   236861.10    37597.00 DISTR.    (D)   2A
VC157         USb     46290.00   31150.50   520012.55    46290.00 DISTR.   (Di    2A
S/C171        SEK    419182.00   38457.68   351948.61    55864.85 GENERAL.  (El    3A
SUB-TOTAL         4083611.23 40470804.81  5941130.78
GRAND TOTAL/94   6592257.78 59929869.54  9627540.84



199g                                29
APPLICATION  CURRENCY APPLIED  AMOUNT IN  AMOUNT IN   AMOUNT IN  SLB-PROJECT  CATEGORY
No.                            S D R      B I R R   li.S DOLLAR
S/C184        NLG    268532.00   105688.66   961561.98  153849.92 GENERAL.  (El   2A
S/C176        USD    515800.00   351344.50  3219835.90  515800.00 DISTRB.   (0)   2A
S/C183        JPY   5362339.00    36460.05   336216.35   53794.62 GESERAL.  (E)   .A
S/C178        JPY  15446000.00   105689.66   975279.76  155299.32 (;ENERAL.  (E)  2A
S/C152        ITL 658075206.00   277033.76  2548209.10  405765.76 DISTRB.   (D)  2A
S/C165        DEM    362562.50   162302.62  1498027.50  237782.14 DISTRB.   lD)   2A
S/C182        USD        220.92       148.39      1382.54      220.92 GENERAL.  (E)   3A
S/C179        GBP    123108.00   131207.50  1224321.70  195891.47 DISTRB.   (Di   2A
S/C174        ITL  39291608.00    16466.12   153940.71   24630.51 GFNERAL.  (E)   3A
S/C187        GBP    245272.20   260457.72  2499010.30  260457.72 GENERATION(A)  3A
3iC157        USD    101454.00 n   64806.J8   628672.56  101454.00 TRANSM.   (T)   2A
S/Ci182       USD      94580.00    64273.02   5915l6.62   94580.00 GENERAL.  (El  3A
S/C176        USD    256800.00   176487.75  1624354.40  256800.00 DISTRB.  (1D)   2A
S/C180        DEM    890000.00   415805.20  4025464.61  6420L9.87 GENERAL.  (El   2A
S/C176        USD   1228800.00   818287.67  7652569.00 1228800.00 DISTRB.   (D)  2A
S/C185        USD    199571.00   133322.87  1246826. 10  199571.00 DISTRB.  (D)  2A
S/C165        DKK    323757.00    37221.79   995638.89  159302.22 GENERATIOICAi   2A
S/C176        Us     977600.00   633504.98  6140233.70  977600.00 DISTRB.   (D)  2A
S/Ci77        Us      379000.00   245599.82  2380471.10  379000.00 GENERATION(A)   2A
S/C170        US      110400.00    71541.48   693414.29  110400.00 GENERATTON(A)  2A
S/C187        GBP      24232.80    25102.32   243018.84   38758.98 GENERATION(A)  34
S/C188        US      106350.00    70900.00   670005.00  106350.00 GENERAL.  (El   3A
S/0i89        Us       76000.97   506673.31  4788062.81  760009.97 GENERAL.  (El   34
SUB - TOTAL APRIL - 95          4132752.06 39639965.95 6191778.45
TOTAL                           4710325.37 45098033.76 7058138.42



Appendix B
PROJECT OPERATIONAL PLAN
Key Objectives of Energy    Proposed actions and related follow-up projects to sustain
Project (Credit 1704-ET)    them
.  ...    . .  .' .    ...   ..  .  .  . : .  ,.... .. . .-  .' , '. . .
Build and maintain a       *  Creation by EELPA of a Manager for Planning
capability for least-cost  *  Employment of consultants from time to time for analyses
programming.                 that require specialists.
* Restructuring of EELPA for greater commercialization,
making planning important to profitability.
Implement priority         *  Construction of the Gigel Gibe hydro plant under the
investment projects.          proposed Energy II project financed by IDA and co-financiers
* Improvement the distribution system under a proposed
follow-up project to Energy II.
Improve management,        *  Restructuring of the electricity sector to promote efficiency
operations and financial      and improved management.
performance.               *  Issuance, by the Council of Ministers regulations establishing
EELPA as a corporation: Ethiopian Electric Power
Corporation. (EEPCO)
* Elimination of electricity pricing subsidies and increase
tariffs to meet the financial needs of the utility.
* Restructuring of EELPA, in its present form, giving greater
autonomy and accountability to eight regional managers and
separation of accounting systems for non-core activities, and
introduction of programs for human resources development
and improved operations planning.
a~~d,*eg  ?f,  =
urnfle  rnw#a
Develop and implement least-  *  Evaluation of the technical financial and economic aspects of
cost plans to supply          agricultural residue briquetting plants and private sector
household energy products,   interest in owning and operating them.
through free marketing     *  Removal of the monopsony status of the Construction and
practices with substantial    Fuelwood Production and Marketing Enterprise (CFPME).
private sector participation    *  Design and implementation of a program to improve charcoal
efficiency in traditional kilns used by small informal private
charcoalers and lift the ban on charcoaling.
Evaluate the least cost    *  Evaluation of the least-cost transport option for petroleum
transport option for petroleum  products, which Energy I did not implement.
products.
Upgrade the production of    *  Expansion of LPG production under the ongoing Calub Gas
LPG                           Project.
fi$tEmowcre--y
Assess the potential benefits   *  Review of the industrial energy efficiency study under Energy
of.improving the efficiency  I, to determine why the implementation of recommended
of large industries and       measures was limited and arrangement of financing and
ensuring the implementation   training for implementing technically and economically
of economically viable        viable measures.
investments.






MAP SECTION






< S    U W A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BR2
A                                                                                                                                                                                             ETI-IIOpIA ET
/                                                                                                                               R _OADLS UNDER M.INTENANCE.
ZAIRE             TLK4                      I                         /)                                        A;S -    X                                                                            BICALT, All WEA EI j
s  U                                                                                                                              G,AVEL AVL AL.-WETHE
-lp                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURAL  AND/OR   R W , ,
/                                                                                      4      INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
DOMESTIC AIRPORTS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
PAoIoPTh.14'NAALR.~ ~ ~~~Ao                                                               6.
- 1A
oAAoIo ~~~   AIoo                                      ARAR~~~~            MU       s.        Nooer      LAIAR. 
loop                                                         > Mo10      DINIooAoIA-   S
N.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M,AO    .                                                                                                           
El K- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Do                          OA
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~~~~~~~SPEAE    p



I






IMAGING
Report No.:        16827
Type:     ICR



