OFFICIAL
U ULUMEl
CREDIT NUMBER 1704 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Energy Project)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                         , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1704 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             Ct7      15      , 1986, between
ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Part of the Project will be carried out by the
Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to EELPA part of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C) the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA)
has agreed to make available to the Borrower a grant in an aggre-
gate amount equivalent to five million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($5,800,000) (the DANIDA Grant) to assist in financing
part of the Project and for that purpose, DANIDA has requested
and the Association has agreed to administer the DANIDA Grant
pursuant to the provisions of an agreement, dated                ,
1986, between DANIDA and the Association and a Development Grant
Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Association as Administrator on behalf of DANIDA;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Finnish
International Development Agency (FINIDA) a grant in an amount
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
FINIDA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and EELPA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EELPA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "EELPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and EELPA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(c) "Project    Preparation  Advance"   means   the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 4, 1982 and
June 15, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association;
(d) "EPC" means the Ethiopian Petroleum Corporation, a
statutory corporation established and existing pursuant to the
Ethiopian   Petroleum   Corporation   Establishmc..   Proclamation
No. 146/1978 of the laws of the Borrower;
(e) "EPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and EPC pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means collectively the
EELPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the EPC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(g)  "MME" means   the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Mines and
Energy;


﻿-3-
(h) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be estab-
lished within MME pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b)
of this Agreement;
(i) "PIU" means any of the project implementation units to
be established pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of
this Agreement;
(j) "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, starting on
July 8 of each year and ending on July 7 of the following year;
and
(k) "Special Account A" and "Special Account B" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-three million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 53,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain two special accounts in dollars in the National
Bank of Ethiopia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Account
A and Special Account B shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and


﻿-4-
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1992, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from iime to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1996, and ending May 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts H through L
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conform-
ity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts H
through L of the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obliffations under the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, shall cause EELPA to perform, in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the
obligations of EELPA therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable EELPA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out Parts H through L
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the
Credit to EELPA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and EELPA, under terms and conditions,
which  biall have been approved by the Association, which shall
inclu   an interest rate of 9% per annum, repayment of principal
in 20 years includirg a grace period of five years, and the
foreign exchange risk to be borne by EELPA.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Part L (i) of the Project to EPC under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and EPC,
under terms and conditions, which shall have been approved by
the Association, which shall include an interest rate of 9% per
annum, payment of principal in five years including a grace
period of two years.


﻿- 6 -
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A through G of the Project shall be cati ed out
by EELPA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that EELPA shall have at its disposal, at the beginning
of the fourth quarter of each preceding fiscal year, sufficient
funds to meet the local currency requirement of EELPA's approved
investment program for the following fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts H through L of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Parts H through L of the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, Special Account A and Special
Account B for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿- 7 -
consistently  applied,   by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and
said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date but
at least six months after finalization of the
Project Completion Report, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all measures required on its part in order to enable EELPA to
adjust its tariffs for electricity and to carry out its obliga-
tions under Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) EELPA shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
EELPA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) Legal Notice No. 213 of the laws of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of EELPA to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EELPA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant made to the Borrower for the financ-
ing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction
of the Association, that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) shall occur,
subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and of EELPA and EPC respectively;
(b) the Borrower has established the PMU within MME and the
PIU's with adequate authorities and has staffed such Units in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and
(c) EELPA has employed consultants to assist in the carry-
ing out of Part F (1) of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and has
appointed a Project Manager in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EELPA, and is legally binding upon EELPA in accor-
dance with its terms;


﻿- 10 -
(b) that the EELPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the EPC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement have each been duly authorized or rati-
fied by the Borrower and by EELPA and EPC respectively, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and EELPA and EPC respectively,
in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tions 4.02 and 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1906
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                              21147
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
Unit-1 States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ETHIOPIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          OJ                    *Jb& jcok
Regional Vic President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) under Part A           1,300,000       100% of foreign
of the Project                        expenditures
(b) under Parts B,           700,000       80% of local
C, D and E (2)                        expenditures
of the Project
(c) under Part F (2)         350,000       80% of local
of the Project                        expenditures
(d) under Parts H            700,000       100% of foreign
and I of the                          expenditures
Project
(2) Equipment, mate-
rials and instal-
lation thereof:
(a) under Parts A         25,960,000       100% of foreign
through G of                          expenditures
the Project
(b) under Parts H          4,760,000        100% of foreign
through L of                          expenditures
the Project
(3)  (a) Vehicles and           1,220,000        100% of foreign
spare parts                           expenditures
for Parts A
through G of
the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) Vehicles, spare        1,820,000       100% of foreign
parts and fuel                        expenditures
for Parts H
through J of
the Project
(4) Consultants'
services:
)     80% of local
)     expenditures for
(a) under Parts A          1,910,000 )     services of con-
through G of                    )     sultants domi-
the Project                     )     ciled within the
)     territory of the
(b) under Parts H          3,290,000 )     Borrower and
through L of                    )     100% of foreign
the Project                     )     expenditures for
)     services of other
)     consultants
(5) Training:
(a) under Parts A            780,000       100% of foreign
through G of                          expenditures
the Project
(b) under Parts H          1,740,000       100% of foreign
through L of                          expenditures
the Project
(6)  Refunding of                 870,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Unallocated                 8,300,000
TOTAL                53,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 1,740,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3)
and (4) on e -ount of payments made for expenditures before that
date but aftz:.Ei Evember 15, 1984.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) establish a least
cost expansion program for the power subsector and to implement
its highest priority projects; (ii) improve investment planning
and programming in the energy sector and to strengthen its
institutions; (iii) develop strategies to resolve supply problems
in the household energy sub-sector; and (iv) use alternative
fuels and improve energy efficiency in the industrial sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Generation Rehabilitation
1.   Rehabilitation of the Koka, Awash II and III, Finchaa and
Tis Abbay hydroelectric power plants to bring them to their full
operational condition, and provision of spare parts.
2.   Rehabilitation of about 20 small diesel generating plants to
bring them to their full operational condition, and provision of
spare parts.
3.   Rehabilitation of diesel generating groups of the Belesa,
Gherar, Gaggiret and Kagnew power plants and of the cooling
system of   the Belessa steam power generating plant, and provi-
sion of spare parts.
Part B:   Transmission
1.   Construction of about 200 km of 66 kilovolt of transmission
lines between Sabatta and Wolliso and between Dessie and Woldia.
2.   Construction of about 26 km of 132 kilovolt transmission
lines between Kaliti I and Cotobie and between Dire Dawa I and
Dire Dawa II.
Part C:   Substations
1.   Construction of a new substation at Kaliti II, Bole, Akaki
and Dire Dawa II and expansion of existing substations of Cotobie
and Kaliti I.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Construction of a new substation of Wollisso and Woldia and
expansion and rehabilitation of existing substations of Addis
South, Bahar Dar, Tis Abbay and Sabatta.
Part D:   Distribution and 66 kV Line Extensions
1.   Construction of routine distribution expansion in the Addis
Ababa area and other major urban centers in Ethiopia, involving
about 1,200 kilometers of distribution networks and related
transformers.
2.   Rehabilitation of about 400 kilometers of existing distribu-
tion networks throughout Ethiopia, including replacement of insu-
lators, poles and accessories, upgrading of relaying and protec-
tion in general, reconductoring, and installation of capacitors.
Part E:   General Plant
1.   Acquisition of about 80 vehicles and vehicle spare parts
needed for the operations of EELPA.
2.   Construction of about 12 housp   for expatriate personnel of
EELPA.
Part F:   Manpower and Organizational Development Programs
1.   Carrying out of a detailed diagnostic study of EELPA's
organizational improvement needs and implementation of the
recommendations of such study.
2.   Provision of: (i) a team of lecturers in a program which
would be designed by and coordinated jointly by EELPA and the
University of Addis Ababa to increase the number of graduates in
engineering by about 50 engineers per year; (ii) construction of
about 450 square meters of classrooms at the Faculty of Tech-
nology at the University; (iii) laboratory and training aids;
(iv) about 210 man-months of consultant services to re-orient the
training curricula of EELPA's training center and to provide both
formal and on-the-job training for EELPA's staff; (v) fellowships
for EELPA's staff; and (vi) vehicles and equipment to upgrade
EELPA's training center.
3.   Provision of technical assistance for EELPA in the areas of
power sector expansion planning, power system studies, operation


﻿- 17 -
and maintenance, financial and commercial management, data pro-
cessing, and design of substations and construction and operation
of distribution systems.
4.   Provision of about 40 manmonths of consultants' services to
assist EELPA in the follow-up and coordination of the implementa-
tion of Parts F (1) through F (3) above.
Part G:   Power Subsector Studies
1.   Preparation of a feasibility study for a high voltage inter-
connection between Ethiopia and Sudan.
2.   Updating of existing distribution system drawings of Addis
Ababa and other major cities in Ethiopia and preparation of a
distribution planning and design method, and provision of com-
puter equipment and software packages needed therefor.
Part H:   Crop Residue Briquettes
1.   Pilot production, including construction of buildings and
provision of equipment and materials, on a quasi-commercial
unit scale of briquetting for households and industrial fuels
totalling about 15,000 tons per annum of coffee, cotton, wheat,
barley, sugarcane bagasse residues.
2.   Provision of training and technical assistance for the moni-
toring and evaluation of activities under Part H (1).
3.   Review and preparation of designs for, and modification of
selected existing combustion systems in, industrial plants to
achieve full utilization of briquette production capacities.
4.   Acquisition of vehicles, vehicle spare parts and fuel.
Part I:   Charcoal Products
1.   Demonstration and evaluation of basic logging and carboniza-
tion processes in pilot projects of commercial scale to produce
about 15,000 tons of charcoal per year, including construction of
buildings and provision of equipment and materials.
2.   Acquisition of vehicles and vehicle spare parts.


﻿- 18 -
Part J:   Studies on Cooking Efficiency and New Fuels Testing
1.   Carrying out of studies on household energy market analysis,
stove prototype development and dissemination of new cooking
appliances and techniques and consumer acceptance trials on new
crop residue fuels.
2.   Acquisition of vehicles, vehicle spare parts and fuel.
Part K:   Energy Sector Institutional Strengthening
1.   Provision of technical assistance to: (i) strengthen the
Borrower's overall energy sector planning and coordination;
(ii) develop a strategic planning unit for the management of the
woody biomass resources; and (iii) undertake biomass resource
inventory.
2.   Acquisition of vehicles, vehicle spare parts and fuel.
Part L:   Energy Sector 9Sudies
Provision of consultants' services for:
(i) detailed review of petroleum supply options, including
a petroleum pipeline, and short term upgrading of
supply of liquified petroleum gas from the existing
refinery; and
(ii) a study of energy efficiency upgrading in local indus-
tries, including preliminary design improvements for
the major industries.
*          *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1991.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Proprietary spare parts for the rehabilitation of existing
equipment may be purchased directly from the producer of such
spare parts.
2.   Works under Parts B, C and D of the Project may be carried
out by EELPA on force account.
3.   Contracts for works under Parts H and I of the Project and
for the construction of houses and classrooms under Parts E (2)
and F of the Project, respectively, may be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts
are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of each
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contracts.


﻿- 20 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of each contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of     Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and EELPA in carrying out
the respective Parts of the Project, the Borrower or EELPA, as
the case may be, shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program for Parts R through L
of the Project
1.   Project Management Unit
(a) The Borrower shall, at all times during execution of
Parts H through L, maintain PMU within MME with such authorities
as shall be necessary for PMU to carry out its functions
regarding Parts H through L of the Project, which would include:
(i) to be the counterpart for the Association, other co-
financing agencies, consultants and contractors for the
carrying out of Parts H through L of the Project;
(ii) to keep the accounts and records referred to in Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement;
(iii) to coordinate and supervise the execution of Parts H
through L of the Project and to coordinate the prepara-
tion of progress and completion reports required by the
Association or other cofinancing agencies;
(iv) to prepare and submit disbursement requests for the
Association and other confinancing agencies; and
(v) to review all agreements to be entered into by any
ministry or agency set forth in paragraph 2 of this
Schedule for the carrying out of Parts H through L of
the Project, prior to their signature.
(b) The Borrower shall, at all times during execution of
Parts H through L of the Project, employ a manager and a deputy
manager for PMU whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association and shall employ competent staff
in   adequate  numbers   to   enable  PMU   to   carry   out   its
responsibilities.
2.   Project Implementation Units
(a) The Borrower shall establish project implementation
units in each of its ministries set forth below to be responsible
for the carrying out of the respective Parts of the Project and


﻿- 22 -
shall maintain such units staffed with suitably qualified and
experienced individuals during execution of the respective Parts
of the Project:
(i) Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development:
coffee residue briquetting and carbonization.
(ii) Ministry of State Farms:
-    cereal and cotton crop residue briquetting.
(iii) Ministry of Industry:
-    bagasse briquetting study of utilization
of residue fuel briquettes in industry;
energy efficiency audits in industries.
(iv) Ministry of Agriculture:
-    charcoal products;
woody biomass strategic planning;
fcrest and tree resource inventory.
(v) Ministry of Mines and Energy:
-    energy planning studies;
cooking efficiency and biomass-fuels
marketing studies;
institutional strengthening of energy
agencies other than EELPA.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be established economically
efficient distribution procedures for products manufactured under
Parts H through L of the Project.
3.   The Borrower shall cause the Ethiopian Petroleum Corpora-
tion: (i) to establish a Project Implementation Unit which shall
be responsible for the carrying out of the petroleum sector
studies under Part L (i) of the Project; and (ii) to maintain
such unit staffed with suitably qualified and experienced
individuals during execution of Part L (i) of the Project.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.   (a) Definitions for the purposes of this Schedule:
(i) the term "Category" means a category of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) For the purposes of Part A of this Schedule:
(i) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts A through G of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds oi
the Credit allocated from time to time to Catego-
ries (1) (a), (1) (b), (1) (c), (2) (a), 3 (a),
(4) (a) and (5) (a) in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(ii) the term "Authorized Allocation A" means an amount
of $500,000 to be withdrawn      from  the  Credit
Account and deposited into Special Account A pur-
suant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
(c) For the purpose of Part B of this Schedule:
(i) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts H through L of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to Cate-
gories (1) (d), (2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and
(5) (b) in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(ii) the term "Authorized Allocation B" means an amount
of $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into Special Account B pur-
suant to paragraph 8 (a) of this Schedule.


﻿- 24 -
PART A
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account A shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that Special Account A has been duly opened,
withdrawals of Authorized Allocation A and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish Special Account A may be made as follows:
(a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
Authorized Allocation A, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account A such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account A at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account A such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account A with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of Special Account A for Eligible Expen-
ditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) (a),
(1) (b), (1) (c), (2) (a), 3 (a), (4) (a) and (5) (a), and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each   payment made by    the Borrower out of Special
Account A for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account A shall be made


﻿- 25 -
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (1) (c),
(2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a) and (5) (a) for Parts A
through G of the Project, minus the amount of
any outstanding qualified agreement to reimburse
made by the Association and of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Parts A through G of the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1) (a), (1) (b), (1) (c), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a) and
(5) (a) for Parts A through G of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account A as of
the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account A: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account A (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into Special Account A shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.


﻿- 26 -
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.
PART B
7.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account B shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
8.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that Special Account B has been duly opened,
withdrawals of Authorized Allocation B and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish Special Account B may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deDosit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
Authorizad Allocation B, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account B such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account B at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account B such amounts as shall be required to re-
plenish Special Account B with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of Special Account B for Eligible Expen-
ditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) (d),
(2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and (5) (b), and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 8 of this Schedule.
9.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special
Account B for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 8 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such


﻿- 27 -
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expen-
ditures.
10. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 8 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account B shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) (d), (2) (b), 3 (b),
(4) (b) and (5) (b) for Parts H through L of the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Asso-
ciation and of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Parts H through L of the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1) (d), (2) (b), 3 (b), (4) (b) and (5) (b) for Parts H
through L of the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts re-
maining on deposit in Special Account B as of the date of such
notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
11. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account B: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 9 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit, into
Special Account B (or, if the Association shall so request,


﻿- 28 -
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into Special Account B shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account B will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


