DOCUMEN
R 1704 ET
DANIDA
*              Development Grant Agreement
(Energy Project)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Dated   De     k      \s   1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1704 ET
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      ©       *                          1986
between ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as Administrator on behalf
of the DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (hereinafter cal-
led the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association and of the Danish Interna-
tional Development Agency (DANIDA) in the financing of part of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement of even date herewith, between the Borrower and the
International Development Association (hereinafter called the IDA
Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS in consideration of the above-mentioned requests,
DANIDA has agreed to open a trust account and to deposit therein
an amount equivalent to five million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($5,800,000) and has, pursuant to an Agreement, dated
July 7, 1986 (hereinafter called the Administration Agreement),
appointed the International Development Association as Adminis-
trator of the said trust account for the purpose of providing
assistance to the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the International Development Association, as
Administrator as herein before mentioned has agreed on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the Grant to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to


﻿- 2 -
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", whenever used in the Gener-l
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of a trust account opened pursuant to the
provisions of an Agreement dated July 7, 1986, entered into
between DANIDA and the International Development Association;
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agree-
ment;
(c)  the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Grant hereunder;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions or in this Agreement, means the account opened by the
Association in its books in the name of the Borrower to which the
amount of the Grant is credited;
(e)  the term "Project" means the project for which the
Grant is extended, as described in the IDA Credit Agreement of
even date herewith, and as the description thereof may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Association and the
Borrower;
(f) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,
4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a) and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions are deleted; and
(g) in Sections 2.01 (9) and 6.02 of the General Condi-
tions, the term "Association" shall include also the Inter-
national Development Association acting in its own capacity.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or referred
to a grant in an amount equivalent to five million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($5,800,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement among the parties, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in
the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultant's services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Articles III and IV (excluding covenants
relating to Parts A through G of the Project) of the IDA Credit
Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
it being understood that all references in such Articles III and
IV (excluding covenants relating to Parts A through G of the
Project) to the "Association" shall be deemed to be reference to
the Association, as Administrator on behalf of DANIDA under this
Agreement, all references to the "Development Credit Agreement"
shall be deemed to be reference to this Development Grant Agree-
ment and all references to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be
reference to the Grant hereunder.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. The date, 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Borrower and the Association hereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate in accord-
ance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the
IDA Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agree-
ment, the rights and obligations of the Association under this
Agreement may be transferred to DANIDA. The Borrower accepts and
agrees that, upon notice by the Association to the Borrower to
that effect, DANIDA shall, ipso facto, from the date specified
in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of
the Association under this Agreement as if DANIDA had been an
original party to this Agreement, without any further action or
formality required on the part of any party, and from such date
the International Development Association shall cease to have any
rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as Administrator on behalf of the
DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
By -E&0A
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the
amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works                      300,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Goods                    2,700,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Vehicles, spare          1,000,000           100% of foreign
parts and fuel                              expenditures
(4) Consultants'             1,200,000          80% of local
services                                    expenditures
for services of
consultants
domiciled with-
in the territory
of the Borrower
and 100% of for-
eign expenditures
for services
of other con-
sultants
(5) Unallocated                600,000
TOTAL             $5,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  tChe term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for


﻿-7-
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   international Competitive Bidding
Goods and works set forth in the Annex to this Schedule
(excluding Part A.II thereof) shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods listed under Part A.II of the Annex to this Schedule
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of com-
parison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers from Denmark, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts H to L
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants for the
purposes referred to in Part C to the Annex to this Schedule


﻿- 9 -
whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 10 -
ANNEK
PART A:   Crop Residue Briquetting
I.   Site-specific Equipment
One or more of the following pieces or classes of equipment
are required:
(a) Coffee
(i) Workshop and storage equipment
(b) Cotton
(i) Wheeldrive tractors
(ii) Cotton stalk choppers
(iii) Self-discharging forage trailers
(iv) Workshop and storage equipment
(c) Wheat
(i) Wheeldrive tractors
(ii) Flatbed trailers
(iii) Square straw balers
(iv) Workshop and storage equipment
(d) Bagasse
(i) Boiler flu gas extraction equipment
(ii) Bagasse extraction equipment
(iii) Workshop and storage equipment


﻿- 11 -
II.  Briquetting Plan Equipment
(a) Bale breaker (for wheat plant only)
(b)  Silo
(c) HammermilI
(d) Screen
(e) Piston briquettor
(f) Drying system (for bagasse project only)
(i) Rotary driven dryer
(ii) Cyclones
(iii) Fans
(g) Bagging station
(h) General requirements
(i) Electric motors
(ii) Motor controls
(iii) Guards
(iv) Conveying Equipment
III. Buildings Components for:
(a) Factories for briquette production
(b) Housing (for wheat and cotton residue projects)
(c) Handling and storage at end-use location
IV. Combustion and End-Use Equipment
(a)  Conversion equipment and combustion systems for cement
industry


﻿- 12 -
(b) Hot-air generators and ancillary equipemnt for boiler
retrofits
V.   Materials
(a) Spare parts:
(i) Farm machinery
(ii) Briquetting presses and ancillary equipment
(b) Fuels and lubricants
(c) Monitoring and evaluation and measuring instruments and
materials.
PART B:   Cooking Efficiency
Equipment Materials
I.   Equipment
(a) Vehicles
(b) Computers
(c) Instrumentation for surveys
II. Materials
(a) Sheet metal for stoves and appliances
(b) Tools for stove production
(c) Other stove making materials
(d) Fuels, lubricants for vehicles
(e)  Spare parts for vehicles


﻿- 13 -
PART C:   Consultant Services
I.   Crop Residue Briquetting
Consultant services will be procured in respect of:
(a) Engineering supervision and commissioning: briquetting
and end-uses
(b) Training
(c) Procurement services
(d) Project and program monitoring and evaluation
(e) Combustion systems design and installation
II. Cooking Efficiency Consultant Services
Consultant services will be required for:
(a) Overall project management
(b) Survey design and implementation
(c) Stove design and testing
(d) Marketing and dissemination of stoves, appliances and
techniques
(e) Stove production engineering


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


