DocumntM of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
C R. 14133       R C>
Ra1t Ne. P-3655-4AG
.5
REPORT AND M dADION
OF THE
PECSIDENT OF THE
TIorIOL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TM
E-EcUTIvE DIRECMORS
ppOSED IDA CREDIT FOR SDR 7.5 MILLION (US$7.9 MILLION SJIVALENT)
M A
PROPOSED IDA SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
FOR SDR 9.4 MILLION (US*9.9 MLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEDOCRNTIC REPUBIC OF N     R
FOR A
COTTAO DEVELOPMET PROJEC
December 1, 1983
| This d t ha* a   icd    b         be   by r         y i  e P       Of
tbrgIngd            lb casf uynot dtew  be didwio  Wwi  m  uwiaoi .I



Currency Eauivalents
Currency Unit  =  xalazasy Franc (FMG)
USS1           =  FMG 475
FMG 1,000      =  USS2.105
FMG 1,000,000  =  USS2,105
WEIGETS AND MEASURES (metric System)
1 hectare (ha)                                 2.47 acres
1 kilometer                                    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)      =                0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (ks)                                2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                                    0.26 US Lallon
0.22 Imperial zallon
1 metric ton (r/ton)          =                2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
BTM        Agricultural Credit Bank
CCCE       Caisse Centrale de Cooperatiou Economique
(French development fund)
CFDT       Compaenie Frangaise pour le DWveloppement des Fibres Textiles
CSPC       Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix de Coton
FOFIFA     Center for Agrictltural and Rural Development Research
HASYMA     Hasy- Nalagasy (Government Cotton Company)
MI         Ministgre de l'Industrie (Ministry of Industry)
?EPAEF     Ministere de Production Animale et des Eaux et Forets
(Ministry of Animal Production, Fisheries and Forests)
MPARA      Ministere de la Production Azricole et de la REforme Azraire
(Ministry of Az ricultural Production and Agrarian Reform)
MTP        Minist4re des Travaux Publics
(Ministry of Public Works)
GOVERNMENT AIO(INISTRAIIN (Fokonolona Territorial Divisions
Fokontany                                    g zroup of villazes
Firaisam-pokontany (or Firaisana)        =   group of fokontany (former
canton)
Fivondronam-pok'ontany (or Fivondronana) =   group of Firaisana (former
sub-prefecture)
Faritany                                 =   group of Fivondronana (former
province)
FISCAL YEAR
Government                        January 1 - December 31
HASYMA                            April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- i -
MADAGASCAR
Cotton Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:           Hasy Malagasy (HASYMA). a parastatal responsible for
cotton processing and marketing, input supply,
extension, coordination and planning.
Amount:
IDA                   SDR 7.5 million (US$7.9 million)
IDA Special Fund:     SDR 9.4 million (USS9.9 million)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms.
Onlendinz terms:        For investment costs of HASYMA. two years grace,
nine years repayment. 14 percent p.a. interest
rate;for monitoring and evaluation, training and
technical assistance, grant basis; for equipment and
inputs provided to farmers, prevailing commercial
terms.
Project Description:   Objectives
Theproposed project would expand Madazascar's
cotton production from 26,000 tons to 45,000 tons
over a four year period thereby saving foreign
exchange expenditures on cotton fiber import
and increasing per capita cash income of producers,
including some 20,000 smallholders. Production
increases would be achieved by increasing yields on
existing cultivated lands and by expanding
cultivation through the development of 8,000 ha. of
new land.
Components
(a) Purchase and distribution of equipment, vehicles
and farm inputs to maintain and improve producti-
vity; (b) rehabilitation of cotton roads and tracks
to improve communication for input supply and crop
marketing; (c) adaptive research; and (d) technical
assistance to cotton parastatals and farmers.
Benefits:              By relieving production and marketing constraints,
the project would result in production increases
equivalent to an estimated US$11.0 million per annum
This docnuent bas a resricted distbutio and may be used by repents only i the perfonmance or
eir offici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discowd without World Dank authoriatin



- ii -
in foreign exchange savings. Although a substantial
part of this project will benefit 43 large farms in
the north, it will also increase by about 50% the
per capita cash income of about 20,000 smallholders,
largely in the south, and provide additional
employment on 43 large production estates. It will
also increase the supply of edible oil and cattle
feed, which are byproducts of cotton ginning.
Risks:                  Producer prices set at appropriate levels and the
allocation of sufficient foreign exchange to the
sub-sector are critical to the success of the
project. The availability of foreign exchange after
the completion of the project will of course depend
on the prevailing economic situation. Assurance on
pricinz and foreign exchange was received at
nigotiations and pricing issues and foreign exchanze
allocation will continue to be at the forefront of
the continuing dialogue between the Bank and the
Malazasy authorities. Other risks are the incidence
of dry years and insect pests, which have been taken
into consideration in evaluatinz the project's rate
of return. estimated at 30X.
Estimated Project Costs:
Z of
(USS Million)      % of    Total
For.    Base
Local  For.   Total   Exch. Costs
Agricultural Equipment - Large Farms       1.01   9.10   10.11   90        33
- HASYMA          0.10   0.88    0.98   90          3
- Smallholders    0.04   0.36    0.40   90          5
Workshops and Stores                      0.34   0.53    0.87   61          3
Cotton Track Rehabilitation               1.04   1.78    2.82   63          9
Agricultural Inputs                        1.23  11.01   12.24   91        33
Research and Development                  0.05   0.48    0.53   90          2
Technical Assistance                      0.21   1.80    2.01   89          9
Monitoring and Evaluation                  0.06   0.30    0.36   83         1
Training                                     -   0.21    0.21   99          1
Studies                                   0.07   0.27    0.34   79          1
Total BASELINE COSTS                      4.15  26.72   30.87   87        100
Physical Contingencies                  0.23   0.75    0.98   77          3
Special Contingencies (Track Component)0.34   0.51    0.85   61           3
Price Contingencies                     0.58   1.09    1.67   65          5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       5.30  29.07   34.37   85        111



- iii -
Financinz Plan
IDA Special
IDA        Fund        CCCE   HASYMA/Farmers   Total
USS (Millions)        7.9        9.9         11.3        5.3           34.4
Percentage           23.0       28.0         33.0       16.0          100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
SDR milliont 
Fiscal Year              Annual          Cumulative
1985                     4.4              4.4
1986                    4.2               8.6
1987                    4.0              12.6
1988                    2.9              15.5
1989                     1.4             16.9
Economic Rate of Return: 30 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4514-MAG
Map: IBRD 15921



-                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for SDR 7.5
million (USS7.9 million equivalent) and an IDA Special Fund credit for
SDR 9.4 million (US$9.9 equivalent) to help finance a Cotton Development
Project. The French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) has
agreed to cofinance this project with two loans in an aggregate amount of
FF 86.3 million (USS11.3 million equivalent) at an interest rate of 4.5%
and repayment over 10 years after a grace period of 5 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled 'Madazascar - Economic Memorandum  dated
November 3, 1981 was distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic
updating mission visited Madazascar in November/December 1982, and its
Report MAG (83-4) entitled -Current Economic Situation and Prospects- dated
March 20, 1983, was distributed to participants of the Madazascar Consulta-
tative Group Meeting of April 27-29, 1983. This report incorporates the
findings of that mission. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to
this report.
3.        Madagascar, with a population of 8.7 million and a GNP per capita
of about US$315 in 1982, is among the poorest countries in the world. It
is a sparsely populated country (about 15 persons per square kilometer)
with less than 20 percent of the population living in urban areas.
Although generally well endowed with natural resources and a variety of
soils, there are considerable rezional variations in ecology and climate.
The central plateau, the most economically advanced region, has a
subtropical to temperate climate, the South is the poorest region with an
arid climate and infertile soils, the eastern rezion has a tropical climate
and althouagh rich azriculturally, crops are frequently devastated by
cyclones. Agriculture accounts for about 35 percent of GDP; about 85
percent of the population lives in rural areas, and azricultural products
account for about 80 percent of the country's export earnings.
4.        Over the longer term Madagascar's development has been very
sluagish and erratic. For the period 1970-1982 there was, on average,
virtually no growth in real GDP, and with an average population growth of
about 2.8 percent per annum; per capita real income in 1982 was about 25
percent below its 1970 level.
5.        This very slow development was true for all sectors of the
economy. Agricultural output lagged conspicuously, and yields tended to
stagnate or decline; the country became increasingly dependent on imports,
especially of rice, to meet food requirements, and the volume of agricul-
tural exports virtually stagnated. Manufacturing output showed a very
modest expansion; the sector remained heavily dependent on imported inputs
and operated at low levels of capacity utilization. There was very little



-2-
expansion in the country's transport network and indeed the existing
transport facilities (road and rail) were subject to increasingly serious
deterioration.
6.        Most of the decade of the 1970s was also marked by the vigorous
pursuit of official policies which sought to reduce foreign involvement in
the economy, and through nationalizations and various economic controls, to
greatly extend the Government's role in economic activity.
7.        The poor growth and development performance and the extensive
institutional changes which were being effected were nevertheless
accompanied by continued cautious policies in balance of Payments, public
finances and external debt. The external resource gap was kept at low
levels (about 3 percent of GDP from 1970-78), the overall Government budzet
deficit fluctuated slightly around 2.5 percent of GDP and recourse to
external borrowing was strictly limited. Total external public debt
(outstanding and disbursed) at end 1977 was equivalent to about 13 percent
of GDP, compared to an average of about 22 percent for low income
developing countries, and the ratio of debt service payments to export
earnings at end 197' was only about 3 percent.
8.        In 1978 the present Government adopted a significant new economic
policy orientation in undertaking a large expansion in public sector
investment with greatly increased reliance on external sources for its
financing. Investment outlays increased in volume terms by about 13
percent per annum between 1978-80 and the share of investment in GDP, which
had been about 14 percent since the early 1970s rose to around 21 percent
in 1979 and 1980. The increased investment resulted in increased imports
and coincided with virtually stagnant export earnings and a deterioration
in the terms of trade, so that Madagascar's balance of payments
deteriorated very sharply in 1979 and 1980 and the resource gap reached
almost 17 percent of GDP. External payments began to run into difficulties
in 1980 and foreign exchange shortages grew increasingly severe through
1981 and 1982. This was to a considerable extent due to rapidly growing
claims of external debt services.
9.        With the rapid expansion in external borrowing -ad a hardening of
average terms Madagascar's public external debt service obligations
increased dramatically from about USS19 million in 1978 (equivalent to
about 4 percent of receipts from exports of goods and non-factor services
in that year) to about US$265 million in 1982 (equivalent to about 72
percent of exports of goods and NFS). In 1981 and again in 1982 Madagascar
sought and obtained a rescheduling of a part of debt service obligations
due. These reschedulings reduced payments due in 1981 and 1982 by over 50
percent so that service payments on external public debt actually made in
1982 were equivalent to about 35 percent of export receipts.
10.       The performance of the agricultural sector from '979 on was less
disappointing than in the immediately preceding vears, but nevertheless
unsatisfactory. Output zrew by 7 percent in 1979 and except for a drop of
1.5 percent in 1981 continued to grow by 2.5 percent p.a. Since 1979 the
weather has been poor and there have been shortages of inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides and improved varieties of seeds. The production of
rice, the staple of the Malagasy diet, varied little between 1979 and 1982,



- 3 -
with slight declines in 1981 and 1982, in 1982 due to an important extent
to the effects of the severe cyclones. There were considerable differences
amongst other crops. Most export crops had somewhat higher outputs in 1982
than in 1979. In the case of coffee the increase was only about 2.5
percent, but output reached the highest level so far obtained. Cloves went
through a peak of the clove cycle, beginning at the trough in 1979, almost
tripling in 1980 and declining slightly thereafter. Vanilla also picked up
from a very low level in 1979 and almost doubled by 1982. These three
crops accounted for over 70 percent of merchandise exports.
11.       Since 1979 the drop in industrial production, including mininz,
has been especially sharp. Production at end 1982 had dropped to 70
percent of the level in 1979, lower than in any year of the 1970s. Output
in every branch of production was lower in 1982 than in 1979, with the
exception of petroleum products, which reached a peak in 1980. A
particularly serious aspect was that the output of some basic consumption
items (soap, shoes, matches, batteries) had dropped by well over one half
since 1979.
12.       The central government's finances in 1978-82 clearly reflect the
investment boom and the subsequent efforts to restore equilibrium. Total
expenditures more than doubled between 1978 and 1980 and declined slightly
in 1981 and 1982, when the inflation rate was much higher. The overall
deficit swung from 4 percent of GDP in 1978 to a peak of 18 percent in 1981
and then down to 9 percent in 1982. The recurrent budget contributed
little to the swings since expenditures and revenues moved roughly in
line. The main cause was the capital budget, which more than quadrupled
between 1978 and 1980 and declined by 57 percent from 1980 to 1982.
However, other government expenditures, mostly Treasury on-lendinz and
general government expenditures from the export crop stabilisation funds,
have grown continuously and in 1982 exceeded capital expenditure. Despite
considerable growth in nominal terms, both revenues and recurrent
expenditures generally declined in real terms, after 1980. The growth of
revenues has been greatly slowed by the deterioration of the economic
situation, although a number of measures were taken to increase taxation in
1982.
13.      The investment boom and the ensuing stabilization policies are
also reflected in the money and credit figures for the years 1978-82. The
net foreign asset position of the monetary system deteriorated rapidly in
1979 and 1980 and more slowly in the next two years. Net domestic credit
expansion was overwhelmingly in net government borrowing from the central
bank; at end 1982 it was 58 percent of total net domestic credit, as
compared to 31 percent at end 1978.
14.       Available price information indicates accelerating inflation over
the last year or two. The official cost of living index for Antananarivo,
which is likely to understate the actual price rises, showed an 18 percent
increase in 1980 and about 31 percent in 1981 and 1982. The implicit GDP
deflator shows a parallel development with a 15 percent increase in 1980, a
25 percent increase in 1981, and a 34 Percent increase in 1982.



-4-
15.       The balance of payments has also been affected by the investment
spending of 1978-80, but the sluggishness of exports and the difficulties
in reducing imports have made restoration of external equilibrium
especially difficult. The current account deficit began to rise rapidly
from less than 2 percent of GDP in 1978 to over 18 percent.  Transictions
with the rest of the world had been financed by a total exhaustion of
reserves, an unprecedented degree of foreign borrowing, and by incurring
substantial arrears on external payments obligations. The Government began
to take stron2 measures to restore equilibrium in 1981 and 1982, notably by
tightly restricting imports and by negotiating arrangements with the IMF
and the Paris Club. It succeeded in reducing the overall deficit to FMC
31.4 billion (US$90 million) in 1982, thanks to the agreements reached with
the IMF and the Paris Club as well as some exceptional balance of payments
financing, but it failed to improve siznificantly the current account,
whose deficit in 1982 was still US$350 million.
16.       The main reason for the failure to improve the current account
was that capital goods imports, which were tied to the existing financing
arranaements and on-going projects, continued at very high levels through
1981 and 1982. The total volume of imports grew by 33 percent in this
period, but price increases were also substantial, increasing at roughly
the same rate. The foreign exchange shortages that beean in 1980 and grew
much worse in 1981-82 obliged the Government to restrict imports where it
could. The categories of raw materials and spare parts and of non-food
consumer goods suffered most, though the Government ensured that energy
imports covered essential needs. Food imports increased because bad
weather, including serious floods, reduced the rice harvests. The slu,sish
export performance aggravated difficulties. During 1978-1982 the volume of
exports stagnated. Coffee, the main export, was seriously affected by the
international market situation, first by a drop in prices in 1981 and then
by the ICO quota restrictions.
17.       The IMF Board approved its first Stand-by arrangement with
Madagascar in June 1980, but, since the Government failed to limit its
expenditures sufficiently, the program was suspended, though some of the
other measures in the program had been implemented e.g. increasing
revenues. A second Stand-by agreement was concluded in April 1982
providing for drawings of SDR 109 million (USS130 million) by June 1982.
This agreement too had to be suspended because unanticipated shortfalls in
export earnings and smaller inflows of capital from commercial banks than
expected made it impossible for the Government to abide by the program for
more than part of the period. A third Stand-by agreement, for the period
to June 1983, was approved by the IMF Board in July 1982. This arrangement
made available SDR 51 million (US$57 million) in addition to SDR 22 million
(USS24.6 million) under the CFF.
18.       A first meeting of the Consultative Group for Madagascar took
place in April 1983 (following a Donors Conference in June 1982). One of
the objectives of the meeting was to secure additional external assistance
commitments sufficient to cover the country's external resource gap for
calendar year 1983, a requirement which the IMF had made a condition for
Madasascar's continued access to Fund resources under the Third stand-bv
arrangement. The meeting was successful in securing commitments to cover



the estimated gap requirement. However, by June 1983 it had become evident
that Madagascar would not be able to comply with IMF stand-by performance
criteria for the reduction of external payments arrears. This was in large
part due to unanticiapted delays in concluding clove export contract
agreements with Indonesia which occasioned a significant shortfall in
anticipated export receipts. The extent of Madagascar's non-compliance
with the reduction in payments arrears was such as to require suspension of
the third stand-by agreement and prevent Madagascar making the final
drawing due in June 1983. However, negotiations began immediately between
the IMF and the Malagasy authorities on a fourth Stand-by arrangement. In
addition to establishing performance targets for external borrowing,
domestic credit, reduction in external arrears, and maintenance of
appropriate exchange rate adjustments the new Government program requires
increases in prices for major agricultural products, further measures to
liberalize the marketing of agricultural prnducts, and progress towards a
market determined system for interest rates. The letter of intent for the
fourth Stand-by was signed in October and the new agreement is scheduled to
be presented to the IMF Board in mid-December. A further meeting of the
Paris Club to reschedule debt service falling due in 1984-85 is expected to
take place early in 1984.
19.       The economic crisis and the greater dependence on external donors
have prompted the Government to question many of its policies and to
appreciate that a sustained improvement in the economy's performance
requires considerable policy reform and a more systematic approach to the
balance of payments and public investment. Of the weaknesses underlying
the economy the most harmful has been the persistent low productivity of
agriculture, the result-;of many and complex factors among which are:the
lack of price incentives, inefficient state marketing, and shortages of
inputs. In industry, commerce and transport price controls and shortages
of inputs have posed equally serious problems. One especially grave
feature of government policy has been inadequate resources for maintenance,
and hence a deterioration of infrastructure, particularly of roads. On
most of these points the Government has either begun to take action or is
working out new policies. A major step has been the preparation of a
public investment program for 1983-85. This program, apart from bringing
government investments in line with projected resource availabilities and
ensuring a degree of coordination between ministries and agencies that has
been lacking in the past, emphasizes rehabilitation and maintenance rather
than new investments.
20.       Over the last couple of years the Government has shown a willing-
ness to take a number of difficult policy measures. At the Consultative
Group Meeting, Government announced its intentions to free the marketing of
rice. As a first step it was decided to liberalize price controls by
allowing free movement between minimum producer price and maximum consumer
price, and to permit the private sector to trade rice except in the regions
of Lac Alaotra and Fifabe. Transport tariffs have been increased in -une
1983 as agreed during the negotiations of the Sixth Highway Project. A
10.5% de facto devaluation took effect on October 3, 1983 as part of an
exchange rate adjustment. Government has also engaged in a reassessment of
its public investment program and is considering abandoning certain
proj^cts which could not be rehabilitated. A major cabinet reshuffle in



July 1983 has reinforced the economic management team by giving prominence
to technicians who are taking a pragmatic approach. Cosu recovery is now
at the forefront of government policy and emphasis has been put on relaxing
administrative controls. Some liberalization measures are also expected in
the industrial sector and we expect to support the Government program with
an operation in industry to be appraised in the near future.
21.       Increased external financing on a concessionary basis will be
required to support the Government's economic restructuring and development
efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to service external debt. Given
Madagascar's poverty and current resource constraints, IDA should continue
to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
22.       IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$388.89 million, and Bank
loans total US$32.58 million. Since 1975, about 44 percent of Bank Group
lending has been for transport, 26 percent for agriculture, 16 percent for
electric power and petroleum, 6 percent for industry and water, 4 percent
for technical assistance and 4 percent for education. IFC's first
investment was in 1977 for the expansion of the SOTEMA textile mill. In
1980 IFC made a US$1.25 million loan for the Bata shoe manufacturing
company in Antananarivo and in 1983 an investment of US$7.44 million for
the Pacheries de Nossi-Be was approved; other projects are under
preparation. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and t-FC investments as of September 30, 1983.
23.       Bank Group assistance to Madaaascar has been concentrated on the
key areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure),
azriculture and energy. In infrastructure, four projects have provided for
the construction of all-weather highway links between the island's
different regions and three projects for road maintenance. There have been
projects to improve Madagascar's main port of Toamasina, and to support the
railway's modernization efforts. Urban infrastructure development has
benefitted from a water supply and sanitation project for the capital city
of Antananarivo for which a US$20.5 million credit was signed in May 1980.
In the social sectors, education has been tle major recipient of Bank
assistance with two credits totaling US$18.8 million. In addition, studies
for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing
Agency have led to preparation of a project for urban development. We
began lending to the industrial sector with a first US$5 million DFC credit
to the Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar (BNI) in May 1980. In
addition, a credit of SDR 9.4 million for an accounting and audit project
was sianed in June 1981.
24.       Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of three livestock
development projects, three irrigation projects, two forestry projects, an
agricultural credit project and a rice intensification project. In
addition, a US$2.3 million technical assistance credit to examine possibi-
lities for flood protection in the Plain of Antananarivo area was signed in



January, 1981, and a US$5.7 million technical assistance credit for an
Agriculture Institutions project was signed in June 1982. We expect
agriculture to continue to absorb a large share of Bank Group lending, in
line with Government strategy to expand agricultural production. Further
rural development and crop production projects are being prepared.
25.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention;
IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June
1982. A US$12.5 million credit for petroleum exploration promotion is
supporting the Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of
hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy sector. In addition, a
heavy oil exploration credit (Tsimiroro), in the amount of SUR 10.7 million
was approved by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1982. Both
projects are proceeding well.
26.       In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
projects. The main problems encountered included delays, cost overruns,
deficiencies in management and inadequate financial performance of project
agencies. Recent problems have centered on difficulties linked to the
country's economic crisis, notably, acute shortage of foreign exchange and
budget funds and institutional problems related above all to the parastatal
system. The road construction component and maintenance studies of the
Fourth Highway project are nearly completed. Construction under the Fifth
Highway project has begun and $13.0 million out of $24.0 million are
expected to be disbursed by June 1984. Disbursements under the Second
Railway Project are almost completed. However, disbursement of the railway
credit wds suspended on June 25, 1982 pending government action to correct
major deficiencies affecting the railway's operations. They were resumed
in December 1982, after the Government had implemented a satisfactory
financial recovery program.
27.       Experience with project implementation in agriculture has
been mixed, reflecting the difficult experience of the agriculture sector
in general over the last few years. The Bank Group's involvement in two
irrigation projects involving rice and cotton production provides striking
illustrations of the impact of policy and the general economic environment
on project implementation. Both the Morondava and the Mangoky projects
were designed to increase production through extension of cultivable land
under irrigation. Both experienced substantial cost ove ans which
necessitated reductions in the irrigated area under development.
Production too has slumped on both schemes. The Morondava project,
approved in 1972 and closed in 1981, was a serious problem project. Even
after incurring cost overruns of 70 percent over appraisal estimates, only
60 percent of planned land development was carried out and azricultural
production fell far below appraisal estimates. The rate of return is
likely to prove negative.
28.       At Mangoky, yields of seed cotton, the most important crop grown
on the network, plummeted from about 3 tons per ha in the early 1970s to
less than one ton per ha and the area cultivated decreased. The
deterioration of agricultural and land development performance had a direct
impact on the financial situation of SAMANGOKY which has accumulated debts
of more than FMG 1.5 billion (US$3.3 million). An additional effect of the



- 8 -
company's difficulties has been a loss of part of the cultivated area due
to floodinz and salinity and increasing detcrioration of the state of the
irrigation network. Key factors in the performance of these two projects
were: Ci) the weakness of the parastatal manazing institutions; (ii) the
incentive structure, both at scheme level and in the official pricing
systems; (iii) inadequate arrangements for maintenance and cost recovery on
the schemes; and (iv) the macroeconomic environment, particularly the
availability of foreign exchange. The hard-learned lessons of these two
projects are beinz applied to the Mangoky project, Which has recently been
restructured to reflect implementation experience and Government's recovery
policy. The accent in the restructured project is on gettinz the
incentives right so that both producers and parastatal find production
attractive, and on making the best use of existinz investments without
undertaking further expansion.
29.       In contrast to this experience, after initial delays, the
executing agency for the First and Second Village Livestock Projects,
FAFIFAM&, developed into a satisfactory institution with technically
competent and dedicated management. Similarly, the project agency for the
First and Second Mangoro Forestry Projects. FANALAIMANGA, established a
strong record, with execution of components ahead of schedule and in line
with appraisal cost estimates. However, technical problems over tree
growth have led to a cutback in the planting program. ln general, most
projects are now being adversely affected by the worsening economic
conditions and particularly by shortages of foreign exchange.
30.       IFC has three investments in Madagascar in textiles, footwear and
fisheries.  The first investment was made in 1977 when IFC participated in
financing the SOTEMA textiles mill. Recentlv SOTEMA encountered problems
in obtaining a sufficient cotton allocation, in transferinz payments on its
loan to IFC. and was threatened with conversion to a Socialist Enterprise.
All of these problems appear to have been satisfactorily resolved and this
year IFC made its third investment in the Nossi-Be fisheries project.
31.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four projects, have
been completed and audited by the Operations Evaluation Department.   The
Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976 on the first Lac Alaotra project
concluded that work had been successfully implemented bit that the benefit
pattern was not yet clear. However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600
of August 1981 concluded that a decline in the efficiency of management,
technical probleis with production and the deteriorating economic and
policy environment had contributed to a decline in the project's prospects,
and that the actual economic rate of return was probably negative. The
Audit Report No. 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project
concluded that the Project had contributed little to Madagascar.  The Audit
Report No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third Hizhway project was
well justified and had a good rate of return despite substantial cost
overruns. Report No. 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the physical
objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved but
pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during
project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority.



- 9 -
32.       In fiscal years 1980-82, disbursements for Madagascar totalled
about USS70 million compared to new commitments of USS96.5 million. In the
same period, the average annual disbursement rate (rate of disburseoent to
undisbursed balance) was 20 percent. This is about averaze for countries
of the Eastern Africa Rezion. Disbursement performance in general is
satisfactory.
III - THE COTTON SECTOR
General
33.       Cotton production and the textile industry form one of the most
important economic activities in Madagascar. About 20,000 families are
involved in cultivation of cotton. Five textile factories and a score of
large earment manufacturers employ another 10,000 persons. The textile
industry is one of the country's largest industries, contributing about 332
of the value added in the manufacturing and extracting industries. Cotton
seed is similarly an important raw material of the vezetable oil industry,
satisfyinz 15-20% of the local demand for cooking oil.
Cotton Production
34.       Cotton production in Madazascar started in 1958 on about 300 na
and spread rapidly. Until 1968 cotton remained a plantation crop, being
grown on large farmos in the north-west owned by companies or individuals.
In 1968 smallholder production started and has developed very fast.  Cotton
production reached a peak in 1977; thereafter poor price incentives and
technical difficulties largely due to foreiga exchange shortages have
contributed to a decline from these peak levels.  Producti,n figures have
been as follows:
tons of
Year          ha.         Seed Cotton
1965         3905            5809
1970        10313           18714
1977        20403           37081
1980        16985           23210
1981        1972'-          27962
1982        17500           25900
35.       Cotton production is concentrated almost exclusively on the west
coast. There are two well-defined production areas: the northern zone
which is dominated by large, private farms using highly-mechanized
techniques on the flood recession system of production and the southern
zone which is predominantly smallholder production under irrigated or
rainfed conditions. In spite of serious difficulties in procuring
equipment and spare parts, the large farms have succeeded in maintaining
high yields. Smallholder production on the other hand has been erratic
with area cultivated sensitive to prices, and yields more subject to
climatic vagaries.



- 10 -
Marketinz and Ginning
36.       HASYMA (Hasy Malagasv, a zovernment parastatal) has a monopoly on
marketina and ginning cotton, although in some areas it has delezated
responsibility for buying seed cotton to other parastatals. HASYMA buys
eitter at its own buying centers or at the large private farms, and
oraanizes transport, by both private and by parastatal transporters. With
the deterioration of the rural road network, shortage of spare parts and
problems in the replacement of worn-out trucks, transportation of seed
cotton has become increasingly difficult. HASYMA gins the cotton in the
eight zinneries which it owns. Ginning capacity is presently a nominal
39,000 tons per year but much of the new area that has come into cotton
production in recent years is situated at an uneconomic distance from
existing ginneries. HASYMA has therefore undertaken an expansion program
with a loan from the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique that
will add 35,000 tons of new annual capacity, most of which is at Port-Berg6
and Toliara. With these new installations, ginnery capacity will be
adequate to process forecast production.
Oil Extraction
37.       Cotton seeds are an important raw material for Madagascar's
vegetable oil industry. There are about 13 plants equipped to extract oil
from cotton seed and groundnuts with a total capacity of 60,000 tons, far
above the availability of raw material. Almost all these companies are
privately owned. Yields in cotton seed oil are low, larzely because the
extraction plants are old and inefficient. Cotton seed production in 1981
of 16,000 tons yielded around 1,500 tons of oil, 60% of total production of
vezetable oils. There is high unsatisfied demand far oils and fats
estimated at up to 20,000 tons a year. Possible rehabilitation of edible
oil plants is being examined by the Government in the context of an
industrial sector investment program.
The Textile Industry
38.       Cotton fiber is the principal raw material of Madagascar's
textile industry which transforms it into yarns, fabrics and garments. The
two largest factories are majority owned by Government and represent over
85% of total installed capacity. The production of the textile industry
was fairly stable during the period 1974-82 at 80-90 million meters of
fabric per year. The drop in domestic fiber production in 1979-82 together
with the shortage of foreign exchanze for the import of fiber and chemicals
is threatening to constrain production. However, the mills have so far
managed to maintain and even expand production to a record 92 million
meters in 1982 by reducing fiber content and recycling chemicals.
Utilization of spinning and weaving capacity in 1982 was about 84 per
cent.
39.       Domestic fiber productior has long supplied the domestic textile
industry. In the 1970s small surpluses were available for export, but the
expansion of the textile industry during the decade led to mounting demand
that could not be satisfied by domestic production. Total consumption of
fiber by the textile industry averaged 15,000 tons annually between 1979
and 1982, equivalent to 40,000 tons of seed cotton. Domestic cotton fiber
production during the same period averaged only about 11,000 tons per year



- 11 -
and the gap had to be made up by imported fiber, which has placed a heavy
burden on Madaaascar's slim foreign exchange resources. The shortaze of
local fiber supplies has resulted in temporary difficulties in fiber
distribution between processing plants with problems over the administra-
tion of a quota system based on installed factory capacity. To remedy the
situation, the Government has azreed to establish a committee responsible
for development policy and overall coordination of the cotton sector
including the distribution of fiber to the textile industry (Section 3.07,
draft Credit Agreements)'/. The actual setting up of this committee is a
condition for Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (d) of draft Credit
Agreements).
40.       Domestic consumption of fabric rose steadily to reach 72 million
meters in 1980. Thereafter a combination of factors has reduced slightly
both per capita and agareeate domestic consumption: a drop in real incomes,
difficulties in the distribution system, particularly in rural areas and
poor market appeal of the product. In addition, textile firms have been
encourazed by Government to export, reducing availability on the domestic
market.
41.       Future trends in the domestic market indicate steady growth as
population expands and the economic situation improves. Prospects for the
export market are also favorable if profitable product lines can be
developed. Government policy is to export production in excess of domestic
demand up to present mill capacity, and to allow textile firms to make up
for possible losses on exports through higher prices on domestic sales.
From small beginnings in the early 1970s, fabric exports averased 25-30
million meters ini 1975-78, dropped off in 1979-81 and picked up again to 25
million meters in 1982.
Cotton Feeder Tracks
42.       The road network in the cotton producing areas is in poor
condition due to inadequate maintenance arisinz from the weakness of rural
institutions and from lack of funds. The main roads are maintained by the
Ministry of Public Works (OTP) and the access roads by the local
authorities. The rehabilitation of the main roads in the north-west and
the Toliary to Tanandava and Toliary to Ihosy trunk roads in the south-west
is provided for under present Government plans for rehabilitation of the
.economic network. However, there is no plan for rehabilitation or feeder
tracks which play a vital role in the supply of inputs, transport of
seed-cotton and the opening-up of new production areas. In the north,
where many roads pass through the flood plain, access to areas of very hiah
production potential has dwindled as feeder tracks have deteriorated;
transport costs have risen and some areas risk becoming inaccessible with
consequent impact on production. In the south, feeder tracks have also
deteriorated from lack of maintenance. In both zones, rehabilitation and
subsequent maintenance of cotton feeder tracks is thus essential if cotton
production is to be maintained and expanded; therefore a component for the
1/ By the term draft Credit Agreements, we refer to the draft Development
Credit Agreement and the draft IDA Special Fund Credit Agreement.



- 12 -
rehabilitation of the cotton track network has been included in the project
(paras 54 and 56 below).
Government Policy
43.      In the late 1970s the absence of an explicit development strategy
for cotton became evident through the relative decline of producer and
fiber prices, which contributed to a production slump. Insufficient
allocations of foreign exchange to cotton parastatals and to the large
cotton producers for the import of urgentlv-needed machinery and spare
parts also contributed to the decline in cotton production. The rapidly
deteriorating state of rural roads has hampered input supplv, access by
extension services and collection of seed cotton. Break-down of the
national agricultural research system has resulted in virtually no
technical improvement of the subsector for many years.
44.      The slump in production and the increasing burden of fiber imports
has led to real efforts to redefine government's policy towards the cotton
sector. As a first step, Government has addressed producer incentives, has
taken measures to improve smallholder access to credit and has shifted to a
policy of active support to the large farmers. However, a number of key
issues will have an impact on the success of this program; these issues are
discussed below.
45.       For years the large private farms, particularly those owned by
non-Malagasy nationals, have operated in a climate of uncertainty. In the
cotton subsector the technical strength and efficiency of the large farmers
did win them some protection as the backbone of cotton production, but even
they have suffered from official neglect and, most recently, from foreign
exchange shortages. Government has recently taken steps to reassure these
farmers of their key role in cotton production and development.
46.       The present scarcity of foreign exchange affecting all sectors of
the Malagasy economy has had a severe impact on the cotton subsector, which
is a high consumer of imported inputs. Until 1981, HASYMA, which is
responsible for input supply for all cotton producers, had no difficulty in
obtaining sufficient foreign exchange but thereafter allocations of foreizn
exchange throuzh normal channels have been inadequate and HASYMA could only
procure its requirements under bilateral aid programs. The large planters,
who account for 60% of total cotton production and are dependent upon the
use of mechanical equipment, have also been unable to obtain foreign
exchange for spares and equipment renewal. Most of their equipment pool is
past its useful life and the likelihood of disruption to this production
system is increasing. Smallholder production has already been disrupted as
plows for animal traction have become scarce, as a result of a lack of
foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials by the local manufac-
turers of agricultural equipment. It is essential for the future of the
cotton subsector that adequate and timely foreign exchange is made avail-
able. Foreign exchange allocation procedures are under review by the
Government. It has set up a special allocation committee and is working on
a set of criteria to allocate foreign exchange. The annual work program to
be submitted by HASYMA should include a forecast of the foreign exchange



- 13 -
allocation required (Schedule 2 (IV) of the Draft Project Agreement) and
Government will make available, annually, sufficient foreign exchange
(draft Credit Aareements, Section 3.01(e)).
47.       Until 1983, the price structure of seed cotton was complex and
the official seed cotton price was only one element of the final price
received by the producer. The final producer price consisted of three
elements:
(a)   an official price announced by Government decree;
(b)   a bonus paid to the producer by the textile factories;
(c)   a subsidy on chemical inputs used.
48.       Although official producer prices have risen in nominal terms
each year, the price of cotton remained low in relation to the import
parity price until the end of the 1970s. Unattractive prices were a major
factor contributing to the fall of cotton production during 1972-78. In
1981, and again in 1982 and 1983, official prices were substantially
increased. Present final seed-cotton prices (including the bonus and
subsidy) are attractive in relation to production costs and returns for
other crops, and are close to the import parity price at the official
exchange rate.
49.      Government indicated, following appraisal, that a new policy for
future price reviews would Drovide for a single seed cotton price to
include the elements currently paid as bonus and subsidy. The present
subsidy:on farm inputs will be eliminated (Section-2.10 of Project
Agreement). The Government has confirmed at negotiations that before the
start of the planting season producer price for seed cotton winl be set in
relation to the import parity price to maintain at least the present level
of producer incentives. Specific proposals would be included for the first
time in HASYMA's 1984 work program and budget to be agreed by IDA and
Government no later than December 31, 1983. This is a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) of draft Credit Agreements).
IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The Project was appraised in November 1982.  A staff appraisal
report entitled Madagascar Cotton Development- Project (No.4514-MAG) dated
November 18, 1983 is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held
in Washington D.C. from November 9 through November 15, 1983. The Malagasy
delegation was led by H.E. Leon Rajaobelina, Madagascar's Ambassador
Designate to the United States.
Project objectives
51.       The proposed project would support Government's cotton
development program aimed at expanding seed cotton production over a four
year period from 1982 levels of around 26,000 tons to about 45,000 tons,
thereby saving foreign exchange for imports of cotton fiber; 26 percent of
this increase in production would be achieved by increasing yields on



- 14 -
e6istinz areas and 74 percent by extending cultivation through the
development of 8000 ha. of new lands.
Project area
52.       The Project area comprises a number of scattered production areas
in two broad zones to the north and south of the Tsiribihina River,
totallina about 131,200 km2. The northern zone, where production is on the
-flood-recession" system, consists basically of two areas, the region
around Ambilobe in the Faritany of Antsirinana and the triansle around
Xaevatanana, Ambato-Boeni, and Port Berge, in the Faritany of Mahajanga.
The area is mostly flat and is dominated by many wide rivers; severe floods
occur in the rainy season. The southern zone, where production is rainfed
or irrigated, stretches from the coast at Toliara and reaches inland with
increasing altitude up to Ihosy. The landscape varies, flat at lower
altitudes but more undulating inland.
53.       The population in the Project area numbers about 800,000.
Althouzh population densities are low, availability of labor is not a
constraint for the larze farms in the northern zone as there is sianificant
seasonal migration of casual labor, and permanent labor has been provided
by spontaneous settlement around the large cotton farms. In the southern
zone, which is dominated by smallholders, most agricultural activities are
carried out by family labor and there is little demand for hired labor.
Project Description
54.       The proposed project would include:
(a) provision of equipment and vehicles to replace and
expand existing pools, and so improve yields and extend
areas planted to cotton;
(b) rehabilitation and maintenance of rural tracks to
improve communications for input supply and marketing;
(c) provision of farm inputs to maintain and improve
productivity;
(d) construction of workshops and stores to maintain
equipment and vehicles and ensure input supply;
(e) adaptive cotton research and pre-production trials
aimed at boosting yields and improving production
techniques;
(f) technical assistance to HASYMA (project agency) and
SAMANGOKY (cotton parastatal), training of their
personnel and strengthening of the data processing
system of HASYMA, the Project agency;



- 15 -
(2) monitoring and evaluation of Project activities; and
(h) studies.
55.       Equipment and Vehicles:  F--,uipment and vehicles would be provided
for sale to cotton producers. Bulldozers, tractors with accessories such
as harrows. ploughs, ridzers, seed drills, sprayers and rotary slashers and
trucks and cars would be made available to the participating larze
farmers. Smallholders' equipment would comprise animal traction equipment,
and HASYMA would receive equipment for its demonstration farms and seed
production centers. HASYMA would also receive trucks, cars, motorcycles
and bicycles for its extension service and the transport of inputs. A
radio communication system would be provided to improve pest control
programs. An airplane would be provided to HASYMA to facilitate staff
access to widely scattered production locations. Acquisition of this 4-6
seater single enzine plane is expected to reduce transport costs
significantly by eliminating costly charters and to improve management and
staff contact with the field, both in the north where most farms are cut
off by flooding for several months and in the south where the rugged
terrain makes access difficult year round. Most cotton farms and areas
have landing strips and for a number of years HASYMA operated its own
aircraft effectively. The proceeds of the sale of equipment will be
deposited with BTM in a special account to increase credit availability to
farmers (Section 5.01 (e) of draft Credit Agreements and Section 2.12,
draft Project Azreement). BTM is expected to continue with its present
lending practices of charging interest rates between 14 and 18 percent
depending upon terms and conditions.
56.       Feeder road and cotton track rehabilitation:  Difficult
transportation conditions resulting from a deterioration of the rural road
network are serious constraints to the maintenance and development of
cotton production. The rehabilitation of the main roads in the project
area is already provided for under the present government plan for the
rehabilitation of the economic road network. Financing is provided under
the Sixth Hizhway Project recently approved. However, there are no plans
for the rehabilitation of the cotton tracks which play a vital role in the
supply of inputs and the transport of seed cotton. The project would
therefore Provide for rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance of about
500 km of feeder tracks. This involves, in the south, the building of
structures to alleviate bottlenecks, together with simple maintenance; in
the north more elaborate structures are required together with new align-
ments on high ground for approximately 50 km of tracks presently inundated
and the supply of 4 ferries, together with track maintenance at least
cost. Quantities are estimated from the results of field reconnaissance
priced in line with recently let contracts and form an acceptable basis for
the cost estimates within normal tolerances except for new alignments where
quantities have not been the subject of detailed survey. Because of the
comparatively high uncertainties for the rehabilitation component in the
north a special contingency of 60 percent on these works has been built in
to project costs. Detailed engineering will be available by early 1984.



- 16 -
57.       Provision of Farm Inputs:  Owing to the foreign exchanae crisis,
HASYMA has been finding it increasingly difficult to obtain the necessary
chemical inputs to supply the cotton producers. Under the Project,
fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides would be imported for sale to
producers, with Project finance of 100% in the first and second year of the
Project, declining to 60% in the third year, 20% in the fourth year and
being eliminated in the last year. The inputs will be sold at a price
determined to cover the full cost to HASYMA. (Section 2.10, draft Project
Agreement.) The Project would also provide for the reinforcement of
ongoing seed production programs.
58.       Workshops and Stores:  HASYMA's workshop, office accommodation
and storage facilities would all be modestly expanded. Two workshops, one
at Mahajunga and one at Toliara would be constructed and four combined
office/storage facilities of 200 m2 each would be constructed.
59.       Research and Trials.  An adaptive cotton research program would
be undertaken by the national research agency (FOFIFA) with the assistance
of IRCT, the French research agency, as part of Project activities. Work
would be undertaken to introduce and test improved seed varieties, to
multiply seeds, to study soil moisture and fertility, nutrient requirements
and fertilizer, and to test new insecticides and herbicides. A detailed
research program to be acceptable to IDA will be finalized by September
1984 (Section 2.01(c), draft Project Agreement).
60.       Technical Assistance, Traininz and Data Processing.  Two
agricultural managers, a ginnery specialist, a financial management
specialist and an agriculturalist would be recruited to provide assis.cance
to HASYMA. (Section 2.02 of draft Project Agreement). Technical
assistance for SAMANGOKY, the development and production azency for the
lower Mangoky valley, would be provided through the services of a cotton
aeronomist, an irrigation engineer and a mechanical engineer (Section 3.03
of draft Credit Agreements). The services of these experts will be
financed for the first year under the Mangoky project (Cr. 881-MAG), and
for two years subsequently under this project. In addition, external
experts in the design and monitoring of research and pest control programs
would make short periodic missions to the Project area. Terms of reference
and conditions of employment for these posts were discussed during
negotiations.
61.        Short practical training courses for its own staff and staff of
other agencies involved in cotton production and on-the-job training would
be organized by HASYMA. Training would be in the hands of the technical
assistants or subject matter specialists recruited for short-term
assignments as required. On-the-job training and study tours would be made
available to management staff. A training coordinator would be appointed
by June 30, 1984 to assist HASYMA's General Manager with the implementation
of the training program (Section 2.07, draft Project Agreement).
62.       Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting.  HASYMA's research unit
would be responsible for monitoring progress of Project activities. The
functions of the unit would be to: (i) provide management information for
decision taking; (ii) coordinate monitoring of technical aspects of



- 17 -
HASYMA's program; (iii) provide data for continuous ex post evaluation of
Project costs and benefits in relation to progress. In addition to ann.al
work plans, semi-monthly reports would be prepared and submitted to IDA for
comment. No later than six months after the closing date, HASYMA and MPARA
would prepare a Project Completion Report to summarize Project performance,
evaluate its achievements and draw lessons for the future design and imple-
mentation of similar projects (Section 3.06, draft Credit Agreements and
Section 2.05(d), draft Project Agreement).
63.        HASYMA would carry out certain studies as part of the Project
activities. At negotiations draft terms of reference were discussed for
two priority studies. First, an institutional study of HASYMA, both
internal (manaaement audit) and external (role in the subsector vis a vis
other institutions, local communities, etc.). A team of CCCE (cofinan-
ciers) was in the field in late 1983 carrying out a preliminary review of
HASYMA and terms of reference for the proposed study will be further
elaborated once the results of the preliminary review are available in
1984. A second study for HASYMA would review prospects for future develop-
ment of cotton production and assess the feasibility of a further stage in
Government's cotton development program.
Project Organization and Management
64.       HASYMA. The Project would be implemented mainly by HASYMA, a
Socift6 anonyme, which is owned 702 by Government and 30% by the "Compagnie
Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles- (CFDT). It is
governed by a Board of Directors (seven Government representatives and
three from CFDT), but day- to-day operations are largely entrusted to a
General Manager appointed by the Board subject to approval of MPARA. The
Company has enjoyed substantial autonomy in its efforts to develop the
cotton sector but it maintains close and frequent contact with MPARA and
MI, the two ministries responsible for its supervision. HASYMA has
retained much of the professionalism of its CFDT forerunner and is
considered to be one of the more dynamic and well-managed of Madagascar's
Darastatuls.
65.        HASYMA's financial performance has been generally good but has
deteriorated in 1982 because of inadequate margins set by the Government
and a sharp increase in interest charges related to the Company's increased
reliance or- short and medium term debt to supplement working capital and
finance the expansion of zinning capacity. The financial viability of
HASYMA in the future depends on adequate margins and an increase in equity
capital. Proposals on the margins, which are linked to seed cotton and
fiber prices, would be included in the annual work prozrams (Schedule 2,
draft Project Agreement). No profit will be distributed as long as the
debt equity ratio remains at or below 70:30 and during the period of
amortization of Project loans, the profits distributed in any given year
will not exceed 25% of net income after taxes (Section 4.03, draft Project
Agreement). Furthermore the government will make a contribution to
HASYMA's working capital so that current assets of HASYMA will be equal to
or exceed twice the current liabilities of HASYMA as at end 1983. This is
a condition for Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (f) of the draft Credit
Agreements).



- 18 -
66.       Annual Work Programs.  HASYMA would prepare annual work programs
which would serve three purposes: (i) to facilitate a full annual review of
Project progress; (ii) to make adjustments possible as experience is
gained; and (iii) to serve as a planning, implementation and monitoring
tool. The annual work program would also specify the foreign exchange
allocation required by HASYMA to carry out the program, and spell out
producer fiber pricing proposals. Assurances were received at negotiations
that the annual work programs would be submitted to IDA for comments no
later than April 15 of the year preceding the year of the program (Section
2.08 and Schedule 2, draft Project Agreement). Final programs agreed by
IDA and the Government would be prepared no later than December 31 of each
year at which time the Government investment budget would normally have
been voted by the National Assembly. IDA's approval of annual work
programs would be a condition of disbursement for the activities to be
undertaken durinz the year (Schedule 1, draft Credit Agreements). The
approval by IDA of the finalized program for the calendar year 1984 would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b), of draft Credit
Agreements).
67.       HASYHA would be responsible for the recruitment of technical
assistants: job descriptions and proposals for recruitment were agreed at
negotiations. The research component would be implemented by the national
research institution, FOFIFA, with support of IRCT, a French research
agency.
68.       HASYNA would implement the component for the rehabilitation of
cotton tracks. It would be responsible for the preparation of bidding
documents for rehabilitation work in the north and building of minor
structures in the south. With the Ministry of Public Works (MTP) and
consultant assistance, HASYMA will be responsible for the execution of the
works and maintenance of the tracks through two maintenance brigades. MTP
would be responsible for major maintenance works beyond the capacity of
-LASYMA's brigades (Section 3.02, draft Credit Agreements). The value of
inputs financed by the project (with the exception of the first year of the
project) will be retained by HASYMA in a separate account to finance the
rehabilitation and maintenance of cotton tracks or for other purposes
(Section 2.11 draft Project Agreement).
69.       A small part of the technical assistance component (SDR 280,000)
will be executed by SAMANGOKY, the government agency responsible for the
development of the Lower Mangoky Valley; as indicated in para. 60, the
Special IDA Fund Credit will finance the services of the experts after the
funds for the Mangoky project (Credit No. 881-MAG) have been exhausted.
Project Costs and Financing
70.       Total Project costs are estimated at about FMG 16.3 billion
(USS34.4 million) of which some 85 percent would be in foreign exchange.
These costs include only negligible amounts of taxes in the form of a sales
tax on goods locally produced. Government has not yet decided whether



- 19 -
goods imported for the Project would be subject to taxes and duties: if
they are, then the Government and/or HASYMA would provide the funds
necessary tn pay for them, about FMG 1.2 billion (US$2.5 million
equivalent).
71.       The cost estimates were made on the basis of prices prevailing in
January 1983 and adjusted for inflation to late 1983 levels. A phvsical
contingency of 5 percent was applied to the cost of inputs; and of 10 to
20 percent on civil works and track maintenance. A special contingency of
60% over the estimated base cost was applied to the northern tracks rehabi-
litation sub-component. This sub-component represents about 5 percent of
project base cost and the special contingency is thus equal to about 3
percent of project base cost (see para 56). No physical contingency was
applied to technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation, training or
studies. Price contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis: 12%
for domestic inflation per annum through 1987 and 7.5% for international
inflation in 1983 and 1984, 7.0% in 1985, 6.0% in 1986 and 1987.
72.       The financing of Project costs would be shared by IDA, the IDA
Special Fund, French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), and
HASYMA. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 7.5 (US$7.9 million) and the IDA
Special Fund Credit of SDR 9.4 (USS9.9 million) would be to the Government
of Madagascar on standard terms and conditions. The Credit would finance
imports of vehicles and equipment and aaricultural inputs (starting in the
second year) and the costs of consulting services up to USS100,000. The
proposed IDA Special Fund Credit would finance the second and subsequent
years of imports of vehicles and equipment up to US$1.0 million and of
agricultural inputs up to US$3.0 million.  The IDA Special Fund Credit
would also finance the foreign exchange costs of civil works for the track
rehabilitation, and of technical assistance monitoring andevaluation,
training and studies. Should the special contingency for the northern
track component prove too high after detailed engineering, the
corresponding Credit funds would be used for financing a small part of
local costs for track maintenance. Financing of chemical inputs would be
on a declining share basis.
73.       The Credit funds provided to HASYMA would be in the form of a
loan for capital expenditures; and in the case of monitoring and evalua-
tion, traininz and technical assistance, they would be a grant. Lending
terms of government to HASYMA would be 14% interest repayable over nine
years wi.h two years grace. Signature of a subsidiary loan agreement
between Government and HASYMA is a condition of Credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 (a) of draft Credit Agreements). It is expected that the
CCCE loans of FF86.3 million would be repayable over ten years at an
interest rate of 41% with five years grace.  The effectiveness of the CCCE
agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) of
draft Credit Agreements).
74.       Inputs and equipment for farmers would be sold on prevailing
commercial terms (cash or credit) and the proceeds collected by HASYMA and
BTM. Funds from the sale of inputs would be maintained in a separate
account by HASYMA and used to finance local costs of the road rehabilita-
tion component or for another purpose acceptable to the Association
(Section 2.11 of draft Project Agreement). Funds from the sale of



- 20 -
equipment would be placed in a special account with BTM, the Agricultural
Development Bank, and would be used to provide credit to cotton farmers
(Section 2.12 of draft Project Agreement). Signature of an agreement on
these funds between BTM, HASYMA and MPARA is a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (e) of draft Credit Agreements).
Amount Allocated
(US$ million)
IDA
IDA         Special Fund
Plant, Vehicles & Equipment          3.3              1.0
Civil Works                            -              2.5
Agricultural Inputs                  4.1              3.6
Technical Assistance                   -              1.6
Monitoring & Evaluation                               0.2
Training                               -              0.2
Studies by HASYMA                    0.1              0.2
Unallocated                          0.4              0.6
7.9              9.9
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       Equipment and vehicles (including the small aircraft) over a
value of USS100,000 and agricultural inputs would be procured following
international competitive bidding. Procurement under the IDA Special Fund
will be subject to eligibility criteria applicable for the IDA Special
Fund. In order to ensure that prices are competitive, orders will be
bulked to the extent possible. In the case of certain items of equipment
intended as complements to existing pools, appropriate weighting would be
given to standardization in the bid evaluation. Ferries (about USS
200,000) would be constructed by local suppliers following local shopping
procedures. In the case of pesticides, procurement may exceptionally be by
direct purchase of formulated materials of proven effectivenes where there
is only a single manufacturer. Rehabilitation of rural tracks in the north
and buildings construction would be carried out by contractors selected in
accordance with local competitive bidding in procedures satisfactory to the
Association. International contractors are represented in Madagascar and
are active in many projects. Others not already involved in the country
would be eligible to participate but are not likely to be interested in
these small contracts. Local competitive bidding procedures would be used
for purchases of equipment and supplies for amounts between US$20,000 and
USS100,000 while prudent shopping would be employed for purchases under
US$20,000 (total procurement under US$100,000 about USS0.6 million). Under
the project, HASYMA is responsible for procurement. Its procedures, as
established by its Board of Directors, are in accordance with local laT.s
and regulations and are acceptable to IDA. Technical assistants financed



- 21 -
under the IDA Special Funds credit (US$1.9 million) would be recruited from
IDA Special Fund countries accordinR to Bank/IDA auidelines for the use of
consultants. Terms of reference and conditions of employment would have to
be satisfactory to IDA. Invitations to bid, proposed awards and contracts
would be subject to IDA's prior review for all contracts over US$100,000.
Assurances on these procedures were obtained at negotiations. Procurement
of items financed by the CCCE would be in accordance with CCCE and
zovernment guidelines.
76.       It is estimated that funds from the Credit account would be
disbursed over four and a half years. This is faster than experience for
similar projects in the country and region as the Project is a short (four
year) project with the majority of investments made in the first two
years. The Project is also relatively simple and represents a time-slice
of a continuing program. Funds from IDA and the Special Fund Credits would
be disbursed on the following basis: (i) for vehicles and equipment,
agricultural inputs and civil works, 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and B0 percent of local expenditures; and (ii) for consultants services,
monitoring and evaluation, training and studies, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures.
Accounts and Audit
77.       HASYMA's existing computerized financial management and
accounting system is adequate to control and record expenditures under the
Project with assistance from the technical assistance financial management
specialist provided under the project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that HASYMA would keep separate Project accounts, and have
these and the accounts of the company as a whole, audited annually by
auditors acceptable to IDA and submit the accounts to IDA no later than six
months after the close of each financial year (Sections 4.01 and 4.02,
draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits, Risks and Justification
78.       The principal physical benefit expected to result from Project
activities would be incremental production of seed cotton: at full
development this should be of the order of 19,000 tons per annum worth
about US$10.0 million. The decline in cotton production will be halted,
thus preventing an estimated loss of 1,600 tons of seed cotton at full
development, worth about USS0.9 million. Project beneficiaries fall into
two categories: 43 large private farms and 20,000 smallholders. The rural
population in the vicinities of the large farms would benefit from
increased levels of economic activity there. Smallholder's per capita cash
income is expected to rise from about FMG 25,000 (US$53) per year to around
FMG 36,000 (US$76) per capita per year as a result of Project activities.
79.       The rate of return of the Project is calculated at 30% over 20
years. For the purpose of analysis, foreign exchange was shadow priced at
FMG600 to the dollar and project benefits were estimated on the basis of
farm model estimates of increased production from improved yields and
extension of area under cultivation. Project benefits were valued at



- 22 -
import parity prices as Madagascar is a net importer of cotton. Costs of
the development of new areas financed by farmers were taken into account in
calculating Project costs. Provision was made for replacement of plant,
equipment and vehicles five years from the time of purchase. Base cost
estimutes for the southern tracks were increased by a physical continzency
of 10 percent applied to civil works since these estimates are considered
reasonably certain. The special continEency of 60 percent on the northern
tracks rehabilitation sub-component (para 71) was treated as follows: for
the base case economic evaluation, half the special continsency (30
percent) was added; for the sensitivity analysis the additional 30 percent
was added, which reduced the overall rate of return by 2 percentage points.
80.       The Project does not carry any unusual risk.  The most likely
risks are a lower than anticipated rate of adoption of new agricultural
practices, greater than normal incidence of dry years and insect pests, and
lack of foreizg exchange. The rate of adoption has been conservatively
estimated but it is sensitive to the producer price of cotton. Government
has undertaken to maintain this at adequate levels. The availability of
foreign exchanze will depend on future improvements in the overall economic
situation: issues of pricing and foreign exchange allocation are at the
forefront of the continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the
Malagasy authorities and will be kept under constant review.
81.       With these risks in mind, the rate of return was tested for
sensitivity. If adoption were slower than anticipated by two years
(consistent with a lag in raising the producer Prices), the rate of return
might drop to 9 percent; the risk from greater than normal incidence of dry
years or drought has been evaluated by assuming that incremental production
in every fourth year, startinz in year 1 is only half of projected
production. The rate of return to rainfed components, which attract a hizh
rate of return of over 100 percent before sensitivity, from this analysis
was still 52 percent. If in addition average be.iefits weme 20 percent
lower the rate of return to these components would fall to a still
satisfactory 26 percent; and if insect pest risks cannot be contained,
benefits might drop by up to 10 percent, and the overall rate of return of
the Project might be no more than 17 percent. If benefits went down 20
percent and costs down 10 percent (consistent with a foreign exchange
shortaze) the rate of return might drop to 15 percent; if the costs of the
track component in the north increased by another 30 percent over estimated
base costs the overall rate of return would drop by two percentage points.
82.       The Project presents no hazard to the environment or to human
health. The use of pyrethrin-based insecticides instead of the DDT and
organophosphates previously used has decreased the level of toxicity and
frequency of sprayings needed. A pesticide monitoring program to monitor
the effects of chemical use on man and the environment would be
established. The proposals would form part of the monitoring and
evaluation program to be submitted for IDA's approval.



- 23-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Development Credit Azreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement between the Democratic Republic of Madagascar and the Association
as Administrator of the Special Fund and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
84.       S-rcial conditions to the Credit are listed ir. Annex III of this
report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA and the
Special Fund Credits are:
Ci) Establishment of coordination mechanism for
cotton/textile sector;
(ii)  Effectiveness of CCCE loan credit asreement;
[ii)  Signature of onlendinz agreement between
Government and HASYMA;
Civ) Signature of an agreement between HPARA, BTM, and
HASYMA, concerning the use of the special reserve
fund;
[v) Government has made a contribution to HASYMArs
workinLr capital;
(vi) Approval of first year's annual annual work
program;
85.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Azreement of the Association and the proposed Special Fund
Credit would comply with Resolution No. IDA 82-6.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Attachments
December 1, 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 24 -                                               ANNEX  I
ArgeLCa4                                          iwl of 5
SAaAGASC"              - SOCIAL I.lQTORS uA.m Ssar
nAUAGsNC: cumsacSin    (u;fUa1nirm  AvLRAGLS) Ia
MOST                     fMfST  E7 ESTIMATE) lb
RFcTlb             z.aI SGHE             5E1L8 izcOH
1ntk       170rb- srLraSLbt    AFnIa S. O FAza           AFILdCA S. OF SlIARA
Au        D ( SQA . I)
TOTAL                              567.0      587.0       587.0
AGRICULTURAL                       367.7      363.7       370.0
GW FM Qfl CU)                         140.0      200.0       330.0             254.6                    1147.9
(EILCGRS  OF COAL SIuIVALL'T)      40.0        85.0        74.0              7.d                     724.2
EawmJa -AND TrEL SuTASrICS
POPUATIM.-Oso-TEaz CZEZTHW5SALS   5474.0     6755.0      8969.0
tRAS POPMLTAAIZ (: OF TuTAt)        10.56       4.1        1d.9              19.5                     28.5
POPLOATtoS PROSECELOEs
POPULXTLOS 15 MAa 2000 CELL)                             16.1                _
SaTIn%ER POPxtATUs (MC:LL)                               54.-
YeSa S1ATIXoRY lOP_. REACHD                            Zl:40
POaULAT.Ia: DEsSITY
PFa Sq_. E.                       9.3        11.o        14.8              29.5                     56.5
PUK SQ. el. Ai;tRA ;Afl           14.9       16.7        Z3.0              94.1                    131.6
POPULATloS AIX SrEUCTL  (4)
0-14 lotS                        41.6 e     42.s        43.               45.0U                     4.9
15-64 YlS                        55-2        53.9        52.9              52.1                     51.2
65 A53 A!0 E                      3.Z         3.3         3.3               2.9                      2.8
POPLIATION GWaH RATE (C)
TOTAL                             1_         2.1         2.5/c             2.8                      2.8
Mu11s                             4-9         50          5_7               6_2                      5.3
CRUDE 5IBEH RATE (PER THUS)         46_7       45.2        46.7              47.9                     47_6
Gt0  OEATO RATE (PER THES)          26.6       2l.9        17.9              19.2                     15.2
GtOSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0        3.0         3.2               3.2                      3.2
FAL'ILY PLYSSIt
ACCEPTORS. AXIJAL (THOUS)           ..
OC    ( OF tAIiUSSR)                ..         ..          _.R,                                       ,
roc an mrama
ISDEI OF FUOD PROD. PM CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      d9.0       102.0        94.0              87.8                     95.7
PEE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIESiLTS)      100.0      106.0       109.0              88.0                     97.1
PROTiL'f (caRS PEII DAY)          57.0       59_0        5a_0       Sl_ 2                           56_0
OF aica ANSL'L AM PULSE         17.0       17.0        LS_0/d            18.1 7.2
Gd2L  CAGES 1-4) DEATa RATE         21.1       15.7        10.7              Z5.7                     23.6
LIFE EX"scr. AT start (TEALS)       37.2 4..2              47.5              47.4                     51.9
15A*5 MURT. RATE (ER THa1Sj      lOd.9        59.2        D9.5             126.5                    117.6
ACCSS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                               ..       11.0        Z5.Ole            24.7                      25.4
UR!iV;                             _         67.0        76.07;d           56.8                     70.5
RURAL                               .         1.0        14.0O             18.3                     12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRAr DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPL'LAT1IO)
TOTAL                              _.          _ -_                        23.1
,UR                                 .        88.0          _               65.7
RURAL                               -          .9O                         21.9
POPULATION PEE PtIdSlCL:S        8900.0    10170.0    10170.Of           27420.6                  1I181.6
POP. PER NUKf71X PERS0s          3110.0a    3350.0       3660.07T          3456.2                   2Z92.0
POP. PER HUSPITAL BE
TOTAL                            420.0      350.0       400.01d          1183.2                    1075.4
URBAS                            150.0/2    210.0       26a.uTf           380.b                    402.3
RURAL                            410.8t&     8W0.0      5o.07d           3177.5                   3926.7
ADMSS10S PER tOSPtTAL BED           ..         ._
AVERAGE SIZE Of OCSENOLD
TOTAL                                         5.8         4-7/e
LRaS                                --        5.3         506/'.
RURAL                               ,         59          4.7..
AVERACE SO. OF PtRSOXS/ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBS                                ..         ...
iURAL
ACCESS TO ELECrT (: OF DSELLISCS)
TOTAL
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                                         ..             ..



otr.,  Wpy AVAILBIE
- 25 -
ANNE= I
T A 6LE  3A                                        ^CE z of  5
MDAC1                  - SOCUL I IATO        TA SHA ET
FADA.-ASCAR                          REFERE-MCE GROLTP- (W GItr  AVERAGSS) /a
MOST                     OKSTRECENT ESTUIATK) rb
,O  ReCENTr           '.5  ItIE               LDLE INC
196ti        970L  ES^TAT3         AFRIIA S. OF SAIAA    ARCJA S. OF SAAA
ADJUSTED EVRL-MENT RATIOS
PRLARTz:  WOAL                    S2.0        P6.0       100.off            63.9                      97.2
r4LE                   58.0        93.0          ..               73.6                    103.1
FENALE                 45.0        6t.0          ..              51.6                      11.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   4.0        11.0       12.0/.             12.5                      17.Z
MLE                     5.a        13.0       14.07-             16.7                      Z3.5
FEMALE                  3.0         9.0       Io.07                6.1                     14.2
VOCATIONAL (T OF SEC0.uA1)           9.1         8.7         ..                7.3                       5.2
PCPIL-TEAC.R RATIO
PavthAy                           70.0       6S_0        55.0/f             4G.4                       2.9
SECONDARY                         24.0        20.0                          25.1                      23.7
ADtS LT ACT  ItATE   )                .         39.0       50.01d             36.5                      37.1
PASSW4E CARS/ThOUSAND POP            4.0         6.8        7.1/6              3.3                      18.8
RADIO RECEVERSINWS8ND POP           15.0       79.7       195.1               45.3                     97.8
TV REE          A    POP             __          0.5        5.2                2.2                      1.6
ESPAPER (-DAILY GEM
TIZERE-r) CIRCULAnOC
PER THOUSAND POPOLATIOS             7.7         7.o        9.0/h              4J7                     t8.2
CIlxA ANNUL ATTENDAJICAPE            0.5         0.7        o&TdC              1.0                      0.6
TAL LABOR FORCE (71115)          30c6.0      3620.0      4527.0
P1-JLE (PERCENT)                  46.9       46.1        "-5                34.5                     36.1
ACRIC=LTURE (PERCENT)             93.0        90.0       87.0               76.9                      56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCEN)                  2.0        3.0         4.0                9.8                     17.5
-ABrIIPATIORC KATE CPFERCFT3
tOTAL                             55.6        53.4        50.5              40.9                      37.0
M-4LE                             60.7        56.6       56.1               53.0                      47.1
FWLNE                             50.9       48.2        ".9                28.9                     27.0
ECOC DEPCADENCY RATIO                0.8        0.9         0.9                1.2                       1.3
3INu DESUI!
PERCr OF PRIVATE INSIE
RECEIVED my
NIGMS4 S= OF PWSEN*tDS            41.0/1
IIGHEST 20G OF BOUSEHOEDS         60.17-
LzEsr 2G or   E D                  5.27         --------
LOSEST 40: tF NOSEIHE.DS          13.07         _
ESMr1ATED ABSDLO1E POVrIT I1
LEVEL CSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       150.01d           165.9                     534.2
RUML                                ..          ._        6.o07d             7.4                    255.9
ESTUIATED RIEATlEE POVERtY INECO
LE1EL CMSS PER CAPITA)
uRB                                 ..         ..       135.0/d            IO.3                    *91.5
RUMlL                               __          ..       36.0o7             64.6                    138.1
ESTIRATID POP. BELGE ALSDLUIE
POVERTY I CSLEVEE. CZ)
ORN                                                      50.0/4             39.5
RURAL                               ..         ..        5o.07              6.0..
NUr AVAILAILE
NDT APFLICAWLE
NOTES
/a  The group averags for each Indicator are populationwewigted arWt_mJtlc  _n      Covers4e of countries mug the
Indicators depend oan aaIlabIlity of data and Is rot mitore.
lb  Utnle  otherwise noted. -Dat for 1960- refer to ay year beemen 1959 and 196: 'Data for 1970' betwemn 1969 and
1971: ad data for Post Recent KEtist.' betum  1979 end IS8t.
/c  Recent populatiou growth estlete to 2.et for 1975-79; /d 1977; /. 1975; If 1976; L  1962; lb 1974; /1 Population.
may 1983



(31K   -    1 a---3IIdsJ.IA                                                                                                                 Id-W   P- elate
sclald-a    ..,ats u"-s al-   t.lmof                                                           i           03s   .lL         aia..S    t.ina                  5       A-I
isaai;.3llt~Ct55ld    -td-s .sAl   J aios.   -3 I-P -R.
-    .'. ,"  ,   ;:  -    -4".  .;  -        -    I-                 a-  sc   m a=n        pa-d.  -   -st   .p P ian -IiTd              Pa-s
-a-c-i-.  a.3a-  i.asJ-.tIs   -53 ltlsC   soaas-    leaP 1     a--d                   .;ia-l c-  .qo- Ap.l ia  mossJ. qaoa                       a A.-U-.
5I..1'- 4IS5ta1) K 1 s-a    *I1I 1-1Kc0t1   zKt-d ltslaA   Ta-adl.                        q       IO     ;a    P_--A Isa-  -   --an   tian.
P..       *Il  _lja           -ls'atw.-,  1'   ax-.   a-t   it -..ItIl-Itdp-    -  Sfl-el  Tatudr Aud-s.
.3C   adat-s. -li-aT-.1  al -       u     zaai --p-b-its!..l.a.                      . 'usab   %515i P3                   5    Si    ___     -1. 1 J
-Iips;p    s;s.. -ea- aiansalila   13.5Ps.  "i5   l.Cl ai.                   p3-f ada
1-i-u. S OK'  -s11  sa-I    -i   -~ Ii ia-   a!  its-C  .tna-e                step i..  p.-a py    "ac   .Cal -I.31  unee  s   las p- as
- :s-ap.soq.   (5353a-  LAK  asl-a-   -a-as  a-l-W  3--55-ap    tsctaaapx-     (.nq    J3    .lIKa-   3-.Jq
ta-aa  A   sOlasi -(PIT  a-  5   "1I-lUda    Isias   3tt. :: = a-s.-as MA  .sAt                          p    .i T. - a.-ae  a-)  3. Mm--   -s(U-K  aS)  a.-
__:P .saddinu"    ml        -.4;   .".       lin s  i5 t                            P12 A ".  *KC'd~   ts  -.. a-is  a-a% a-iS ns     n *K"  ca.-ad lsdta-
Ut J30 p  (Up  (K  -p.   ilfTCa  -cp -7 cit- .1 sa.ssJ.al ne-sn                                            'sto P-    en talT-I%J- taslF Pas J-   pa-c
Ut1  nlailtad   pi)- p.5   ~~-a  ate   mi  p   cLi o3uaI l-                                       3.1ilsinsatpa nl     in    Va.a-sCae
iAius-C.s --asa-nl  I .S.               n   a-   l-*d'3a   -a-acp   -iapasc  p.LopdsW.C tanUa 4 waJ. a-ana-1iP p a-  m-s
-dPToip .san -aq        l sta - . 'ata   '1 - -a  sdn ~_. mas  t)4ls                                   Aa;4 in_a-sdd-Aps.tqt  c-tsla-a  pK5-  Vtl-A.at.-
v- niid.t.l  -9=-lI-at-   -          .        K;'- 3l-ta I lI  I-._ "3ad                          as -P- .5pa   a   sc P-"d   1. A.p sd  a- -    Aiddaa an
s00j!35J ai~i   a..a- P.a-ta   -1 a-m p.a       TeVitnati        I                                               -.tP catp. 34-'C-i-lddi i-a Vj-iun .  a-A
a-is3.a-  'att-st..  'ScK  Ut1303  151-  5ccs-t *a-~I  las.;tmtaMa-IsKlii  a. 'itxsdd   -nt-qaasp   n  p   a
5-J a  Wl  si;sai-al       tts0l*i  -%-P pi-ta3    i.                                                  aiia.ip. P oa  p.l  -Ms.t                   .   ;a--nP
-z- ai j- -1 ..... .a.ait-n3-p
-1-  A.1  -P.1-                                                                                  4-~~~~~~~~~~laKp   i.   i-.aK   alia   hKaU-j as-Jad m-s- jt*ct-U - a-A.
-3.-. Az -                     a.ina5ie-iAaa-  .3. p  .tsa3d sssti'a--aa   5-t   .                                                      -JJ
- a-i  Jeltea   MIs sas-a- Ml   i~s,a U     .3_                   p.  a-a tps7ta.  P.tc-p     -i2i              .sI- 411-  5035A -a-s
ici-Ka  - a-     J. ..i  a u0)a- -ii Ictasaas  ,eaac_-.Walt-p  a* -- ------- .sZC    ia  dn
-Psas. 51 ISIS-  sss;.sCo  a-s-isa-A.-i--P-a:sJ--.-s-a    s s-a .   an                                                                ...aac
[iW  30   il-lttISt  p  asses at p. 57l-C   t  3*Sp-2t!
-   p-as  nissdd        laslsC   utSl.a-a0151-O-tp.~ct  't.   j  ip.st..sao    i   nsn  aa-  Atats
wman s-i-aasa-  a'4ii~ -  I-1a-i- -Ts Aat.    v-t.  -t- I                              ijtA         ta-.ada-iad    at. ii a-iaad          ajf~~
p.-- .i acendp. tapsat-n   silt  -tI b-a &             altn ris-                                                           a.v  IS! a-s      -0K S%    i-a
am   s-d;      ssalam      pts.'aa5silaa -M 3            .an aaeI4                             5 -%i 10oll.i  a-C4 -it          1          ju L a          W  t53
-.nl--,- A-Ud P--dd.llAttt                                                                                    1-PlOl p   *.s   ac! n--A..
5)- Salt  1j55lu5  ;- 75Wi   i  -t?   aaI s1-a :is-i                                       P.Ptt3d               ns     -'11   Z"-      IaC    3.  aODnlp
a;aU.      .  .lap'-  n  I-n .a-rad t .. a -         f atC- -i. cs  ssqa- ol-iKC"c                                     A.-iw  naTe  in                          -di  f IllI5IC
-I-; apa:    n Illsdo       -i a -ca   -sa   lc -tet-    1i~ia-i  is-o         -            41d) a-a-          ct-pA.1d-s -safla. - (an-sssda;aa 0ss as -ty  O fl
a-a-ie- illesa-al1 p                          -a.7 stCl     ia -is    Pi.-l  - .   stitalm5  - 
ta9tas-alL.a    sad-j   -ahas   ell   slc   .a-ta-a                                                        P           V-         1            -      --sis.e   .lflg Ceg
L.s.p.a- iaail a-  sttdn,- ~~o;a- -:.-Ic sa - 10-5  T_-ISt-$                                                    'a-tIe   atI)   i"  SOl.-C
i55 Wiaia-'.-   5   a-i.   Ktd  s~                           asestssa   an    C     lA17-a5  Uia-aIaa  a.Rtla:              a
a-aa.d Clip.m  i   tc-t-sa-    l..pa                                                           ftllaaata   3.  -aat        -v    sldP-    .3n -tmLtis;
baanm              -ta as  ni  p. 'Ca-  s.tMUR  .13.3.35    a-a  mat.               -t
T.-Z - P"  -3d~  -1                   TN6l a-es-S-i             'I3 nt-Ol  inaJItSM  - v _       . ntlfln   d .an:.-.
-iT a-)?d-3 aTt-il. ;.ac  Va-d -Oa    -t                                 --sd-a--oda;a-a   tisa                       .Ltss 5lli
V-MjVd    ~   ~    T-ttaid- p-dta                                  ial  ala           st-toSil-   0;.-a                        
-d       1sit    pidtl1a-    .t-1 lc.  ea-  ad  an                   -d lc                 an    - ain  itW  taina    iK -. L-ts"            n  J-   -inn   Il
.3~~~~                            ~~ ruAta    aa-L-sds      at -a-ip~na   t   at- It p.  c       ue   5  andtsep-  mtfl         s'-a3                   nia        ma
a-s-   aildl tan     aaitti    Psst5itsataWsIiV-intfi itntil COtl
isa-a en  e.3ai  1201 - lplc?sa-5 asp aaa-aaa? tIoatIe 3c sasS    AI.to  i-i p._ al-    -s                                            l-A.aO  k
IF-  T"-.d  --I.-         ---.I .1-; P.-                               tian          .2..3 IiaC10 OIn-   Klt-  Sc2" f  aS.asa   .etla pa
-api a-l c1-:qs4-a       4~ a-pI-KNitddi   a 
as-. .tit..tI- p.e KIttuss p. cx.tiCs.ss l.a-s  -                                    .l  -       P-.ftssa- 'a;.3;C.a.s                  T
p.   A.aUsit- ft.t1 a-.t s- ,t it.-Ztt    S.flp   '5 a fta-sO.ats.tsis.                                          titeaSm  nalat'Er-KS?  i   1.3)  Pl- ,-Llma
ici.-dq  n-     3Ithd-a    sat  1jaaa  3   Ca-asai-ipa                                         lll5   ;  uato' a"aC ;.a--A.s:es eaicfl   ne
p. IiWa  p~i '-.-    ilIlsoIs~~'  -KpsiIl  ol s       -st           Im_a                        --t         t    n -am2I
1-ta-et iidinsa   tt1'c5   .eslitae.  -stitiiiaa-   aal   S   -                                                                   5t5at--. dI  Z-    4     -;   InK p    't -I icK
p. itde.A unWiad  a-I  loamI   tsl              T. .til Vc  9ui- -                           -st-       hi  ta-ca --Is  locsit              III-   a    -- - V(12  ne  a- a
a-i littdaCine  aoiitsdam  sl-t S-Iawa a.ip-fls    -l SMA' -as.
'i-tn-gKtl-iIC   -  ad~   - 1l5  - ~    t. tl-p- M  I-tS. an  OclIltia                              5-a                                                     Mc?  n ta
-aiallCW   r~a.                   na  tsIl;  11Osasaalalcatal p   saaSt1h-C 2daaa-
toitiltacd 309  aIlaClIaA-o-lsIiaisd   tlltC-t~    c   ndl
I1im tliCa  5 ldt fip    cj1imnl                                                  ~             tl tstpt   .I-.anUllCC303 aaa gL-11



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 27 -                                     Annex  I
-27-~~~~~~~~~o Ebe 4of 5
MADWRGSCA - Efmf  INDICATOR
aC6S N      wL. PECir IN 1982                            ANUJAL RAM OF G_ _W__ _ _
USS  Zn.         _              1975-79   1979-82
GNP at Mbrket PdE es              2,806.0        L1O.00               1.5       -3.5
Gross Dtometic Tnvesr               387.1           13.8              4.6      -20.5
Gross Domestic Savirtz               91.2           3.3            -17.5        -7.7
Qzuerrt Account RB]mic1             351.4         -12.5              -             -
5mortncs of Gkxxis, NFS             365,7          13.0             -7.3        -2.8
lmvorts of Goods, NFS               662.2          23.6              5.4      -12.6
CUxlJr LABOiR AFOE hND
PFUIXrDWVi  IN 1979
Value aided 21            Iahmr Foxce 3/        VA Brr Workier
USS Mn.         Z         'o00         Z         USS aMn      Z
Aicultture                        1,178.9          36.1       4095       88.4        287.9      40.8
Industry                            588.3          18.0        127       2.7      4,632.3    657.0
Services                          1,331.3          40.8        357       7.7       3.729.1     52.6
UE2allocatid                        166.1           5.1         51        1.2      3.256.9    461.6
Tota1                            3,264.6         100.0      4630      100.O     11.906,2     100.0
GOVER*EfNr E13MUNE
Central GoVernMEnt
R Cmn            Z of E P
1981     1982          1981    1980-82
Current Receipts           104.3    121.9          13.6      13.5
Qirrent Expenditures       112.2   130.9           14.7      14.6
Oirrent Deficit             -7.9     -9.0          -1.1      -1.1
Capital Expnidctures        69.1     39.4           9.0       8.3
ForeiEn fincxix  (net)      55.6     5D.6           7.3       6.4
M , CREDIT ad PRICES
1978         1979          1980           1981         1982
(Mflii FMG Outstaneii at the Eind of the  eriLod)
kxney and Qiasi money               1410.8       172.9        205.8            249.8        275.2
Bamk Credit tOD public sector        48.5        101.5        123.4           235.8         269.7
Bark CFedit to state entemprises
ard private sector                102.0        130.6         L53.4           163.8        196.2
mi aeyald Qasi money as Z of GOP    28.9          29.1          29.8            31.9         27.4
GDP Price Deflator (1978 = 100)     195.7        218.0        251.0            313.6        bO9.7
Anu,l percetan  dw          in
GDP Price Deflator                  6.8         11.4         15.1             24.9         3D.6
Bark Credit to publc sectort         72.0        109.3         75.8            32.2          14.4
Bark Credit tD State enterprise
aid private or                    6.1         28.0         21.7              3.1         19.8
Note: All crr icxs to dollars in this table are at the averam emdur,m rate prevailmrq dburx  the
perid  overed.
I/ Based on 1978 prices series
At urket pices
3 Tota  laour force
41/ Iq,rt dlties                                                                         r 1983



( ;Upy A VAILABLE                    ~5 
- 28 -                                       Amex I
Paioe 5 of 5
MADNGASCAR - TRADE PA17 AND CAPITAL FIaS
OF__P________E_    (AVIW  1977-80)
BAIANCE OF PA4                     1981  1982                             GE_1977__
1980   1981   1982 I/                             IS$ M. 
(USS Eh'lli, - )~~~~~~~~~~~~USMIi
(us$   ilx )4                                       53
GDEfee                       179.8      47.3
Vanilla                       26.8       7.0
cloves495                               13.0
Meat and meat products        13.0       3.4
Exports of (Gods & N.F.S.  492.7  383.5  360.0   Fish and shellfish             16.2      4.3
Inports of Goads & N.F.S. 1,059.2  725.7  628.3   &a                             7.9      2.1
Petroleun products             8.2       2.2
Resource Balance         -566.5 -342.2 -268.3   Chromite                        10.6      2.8
Other comimdities             68.3      17.9
Total                   380.2    100.0
Investment Inom          -37.9 -78.0  -93.4
Privare Transfers, Net      0.9   8.5   10.3   EXEERNAL DEBT, DECEMBR 31, 1982 1/
EJss mn.
Oirrent ccount alanc    -603.4 -411.9 -351.4
Public Debt, iml. ouaranteed    1,564.8
Direct Foreigs Investment   -0.9  -0.7   -0.3   Nci-Guaranteed Private Debt       -
lkta;1 Outstandinm & Disbursed    1.564.8
Net Ml Borrowinr:         274.5 226.3   77.4
____________  -____              -    UM   MC RAM  FMa 198 3/
D ishirselEnts          304.8  294.0  192.6
Amrtization             -30.3 -67.7  115.2
Oter Capital (onet) 2_    127.4 203.2  268.0  PFibc Debt,  nrl. euwanteed   35.0 4/
Cwne in Reserves          202.5 -16.9       6.3
(increase = -)                                IBD/DA ID, March 31, 1983
USS mUliox
RAE OF EXCHANE            1980   1981   1982
Outstandir &
USS1.00 = FM             211.30 271.73  350.0    Disbirsed           30.56  185.34
Ei;  1 = M               0.0047 0.0037  0.0029  Undishxzsed                 150.66
Outstarxirs incl. .
Undishirsed       30.56  336.00
I/ Prvisional estinates fram the CetraTl Bark of
2/  xles SDR alocnions,  bUic transfers,
state and private sbDrt-term capital, and
errors and anissions                         3/ Debt service paynts as % of exports of miods
and services
4/ After effects of debt resdiedli  aranarerts
Novmber 1983                                          under Paris CLub



BEST COPY AVILABLE
- 29 -                         ANNEX  II
page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONO
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGAg3AR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983) 1/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
-----(USS Million)
Nine Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                             32.58   89.15        -
CR  641-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Highways IV                       22.00     1.91
CR  663-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Education II                      14.00 2/  1.44
CR  817-MAG  1978   Madagascar  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                43.00 3/  6.27
CR  881-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Mangoky - Agriculture             12.00     3.50
CR  903-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Railways II                       13.00     0.94
CR  938-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                        24.00    17.56
CR  977-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - BNI              5.00     2.87
CR 1002-NAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                  20.50    18.12
CR 1016-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum Exploration             12.50     4.07
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank - BTM            11.50 5/  8.23 6/
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.         2.30 5/  1.59 6/
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit              11.5O 3/  7.56 6/
CR 1161-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry II                       20.00 S/ 14.26 6/
CR 1211-MAG  1982   Madagascar Village Livestock II 4/            15.00 5/ 12.92 61
CR 1249-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Institutions           5.70 31  3.93 61
CR 1298-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                   11.50 5/  6.42 61
CR.1337-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Lac Alaotra                       18.00 4/ 17.65 6/
CR.1391-MAG  1983   Madagascar  Sixth Highway                    45.00 5/ 44.07 6/
TOTAL                               32.57  395.65   173.31
of which has been repaid           2.53    8.24
TOTAL now outstanding               30.04  387.41   173.31
Amount sold
of which has been repaid
.
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    30.04  387.41
TOTAL undisbursed                                      173.31
1/  The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/  Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3/  Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
4/  Not yet effective.
5/  US dollar amounts equivalents computed at the rate of the approval dates.
6/  US dollar amounts equivalent computed at the September 30, 1983 rate.



_ 30 -
(80  of n31.. 1983)              total
11.00           ~~~~~~1. 25
at                            -2.70
T e%til~e                        1. it*.0i.25
S,hoe taua                        25
'sde bIoss



- 31 -                          ANNEX  III
pase I of 2-
MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I   -  Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project             24 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                      Government and IDA
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA          :   November 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission       :   November 1982
(e)  Negotiations completed
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness       :   July 1984
Section II  -  Special IDA Implementation Action:
Approval of annual work programs as condition of disbursements
=-         (paras 46 and 66.
Section III -  Special Conditions:
(a) Effectiveness
Ci)  Establishment of coordination mechanism for
cotton/textile sector (para 39);
(ii) Effectiveness of CCCE loan credit agreement (para 73);
(iii)  Signature of onlending azreement between Government and
HASYMA (para 73);
@ iv) Signature of an agreement between MPARA, BTM, and
HASYMA, concerning the use of the special reserve fund
(para 74);
(v)  Government has made a contribution to HASYMA's working
capital (para. 65);
(vi) Approval of first year's annual annual work program
(para 66).



SE~COpy / AL21
-32 -                           ANNEX  III
page 2 of 2
(b) Other Conditions
ti) Submission of research proiram for IDA approval (para
59);
(ii) Designation of a training coordinator for HASYMA (para
61);
tiii) Provision of foreign exchange (Para 46);
(iv) Arrangements for a special account to finance rural
tracks (para. 74);
Cv) Arrangements for cost recovery for inputs (para 57);
(vi) provisions on distribution of HASYMA profits (para 65).
.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MADAGASCAR
AREAS OF COTTON PRODUCTION                                                                                       ntseranana
LOCATION OF GINNERIES, TEXTILE INDUSTRIES AND OIL MILLS
ZONVES DEr PRODUCT/ONl CQrONNAMME
EMPLACEMENr DES WINES D'EGRENA GE,
DES INDUSTRIES TEXTiES, Er DES HUIMERIES
Zone limuts                                                                                NOSY.BE
-- -. -    imit.Ralnfsd cultivation                     All-weather roads                           Hel e                  AVohimarn
_Illfl  CWlurts o& v/e                             Rowutes aceessib/es en                             I ML   Ambon II   an
Irr- vated cultivation             _          Ralways
Cu Vu~efrrwuit                              C       de o'er                                   AAN         TSERANA(4A
Cultivation fter flood wilihdrawal     +    Afpor14-
rt.vtt idstoroshets                          RdL                                                                                   Sibe
HASYMA ginneries                             Forests                                                      0beak         >
USASd'or.nage A'ASYMA                     Fo,JtsAnl
Oil mills processing cotton grains           Foritony boundaries                              +
Huilaries ?trurant/.sgromn.s dt colon         im ,tes drs Aarlny                                                                      Atlha
Befondrono                     Anal
-Moamgntsetro
Maha jan     +           POiT?                   |                  I)
KILOMETERS 9                                                    Mahq io  0                      -Modanlr
8    KltrSsrlRs:  5p    10,0    150    200n                                                                                        t=                           5-
16  MILES 0           5b          100                Mo mdrOVOL  -                                                                                              16
|          \                   \\{    AmboS-;- 4Wd>ho                                       } Amb
i 1         ~~~~BesolombJ                    * \s             m       ;  p s                      go)
Maeva~~na  r                 ndilamena       dBOAN
( r4ozarnbique  $                                        I    Anhriam7                 3:Ieno  7eA d   rivoAtsinanana
jrl O Z a n7 b ie u tJ                      .     ;Morofencbe        P                              '      >           ooen
Maintiran  \                                                                 icio        tora
\   /          O Amborrwovon~~~~Ankzb             A, Anobe                       ToamasinaZ
OAntiolovo      Ja5ri/X9                           r                          .
*- h fa n n e /                                  Tsiro ani           ANTANANARIV                                        iba          /      D /A
,L X0  ,ff,  FanjQkamana    narol;0'&                                      hibinany    / aD



Antsolova
r    i n   n eTsiroonormandidy                                              NTANANARIV                         efe
|   C  h  K/    n  n   /  -  T s ldFanjakam anar o              Mhibinany                                  /  'V   D      .4    'V
Belo*Sur- _      Miondrivozo      -                               mn1          Anosibe      Voonmondry
Tsiribihino,!                            n                   7 
-20'  }) )     '4   'ABtsir fi  f-,   Mah" 4noro
Moron                                     oW
/                  N   Ainbo~~~~~~tofinondrolhono 
/             /        }           AmbohlmohosoaK              L   /6oh'
01%E     MantooO                                                                          anJ5J:o^ ' a enjary
1  >  _  -,                             ~~~~~~~~~Fianarantsoaz     
Morombe %                                                ,: - 
-~~~~~ ~ 2'     L'-    Ber o                          oo -tg           >    ~     /                  M aa                                                             2
22                        '         -                                                                                                                                           22?
-           I                                                                                          T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lohb  his map has hew prepared by the
the crweiem of de readws of
fthe 'povi to ~hich it S atached.
The denwrnnat,ans used and fth
S a-~ ~ - ~   ~   .  - h f Farafang a                               r not v .h a now   n path s  of dh
_World ba* nd its affikAtes, any
pxdgment an the ealI status of
etroka                                                                   any _enwory r any endonment
of acceptance of such horidaries
|  Tallara      ^2t~\~ti i                       / -dongy.du.54d             t/Vgbnggindron,             -
L.                    \  ~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~tky   ,                                       .,nordu--Sud
24 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~W
|  9   \nrJ   JmN"   : e n   z a < Z /A                   F   R   I   C   A  '
INDIA N
\    Ampon hye                                                                                                               O CEAN
29   )   \             f                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~A r4A N ric          VA L    X 
|                     >                                   =            Twiri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lnaro                O CEANy       \_      U     O C      l     |
_AmJ44  45  4         < t
421  4                             Alle                                   4e                                                             1.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAA~CR   
- I                                                                     1                                                              -1!2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'






