Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LE 0
Report No 4514-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 30, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US $1.00            =    FMG 475
FMG 100             =    US $0.27
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (Metric System)
Metric                             British/US Equivalents
1 hectare (ha)                =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)             =    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)    =    0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)              -    2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                   =    0.26 US gallon
0.22 Imperial gallon
1 metric (tonne)             =    2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
BTM        Agricultural Credit Bank
CCCE       Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(French development fund)
CFDT       Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
CSPC       Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix de Coton
FOFIFA     Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Research
HASYMA     Hasy Malagasy, cotton parastatal
MIC        Ministere de l'Industrie et du Commerce
(Ministry of Industry and Commerce)
MPAEF      Ministere de Production Animale et des Eaux et Forets
(Ministry of Animal Production, Fisheries and Forests)
MPARA      Ministere de la Production Agricole et de la Reforme Agraire
(Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform)
MTP        Ministare des Travaux Publics
(Ministry of Public Works)
GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION (Fokonolona Terrirotial Divisions
Fokontany                                 =   group of villages
Firaisam-pokontany (or Firaisana)             group of fokontany (former
canton)
Fivondronam-pokontany (or Fivondronana) =   group of Firaisana (former
sub-prefecture)
Faritany                                  =   group of Fivondronana (former
province)
FISCAL YEAR
Government                    January 1 - December 31
HASYMA                       April 1 - March 31 (until 1983)
January 1 - December 31 (from 1984)
1/ The exchange rate between the US dollar and the Malagasy franc used in
this report is the rate obtaining in the fourth quarter of 1983.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.          BACKGROUND
A.    Project Background ..           .................. .............. . to1
B.   The Agricultural Sector ......              ........................ 1
C.   Recent Performance   ...................................... 2
D.    Government Policy and Actions             ........................ 4
E.   Government Services  *...................................*.. 6
F.    Bank/IDA Projects in Agriculture and Irrigation ......    9
II.         THE COTTON SUBSECTOR
A. Production                     ................. 10
B.   Markets and Prices ........           .............. . .13
C.   Government Policy and Issues for Development  ........15
III.        THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Location and Physic-l Characteristics  ... ............. 20
B.   Population and Labor Supply ...............*....... ....21
C.   Land Tenure   .... .......... ....................... 21
D.   Production Systems    .           .............. o............ 22
IV.         THE PROJECT
A.   General Description    .          ............................ 26
B.   Detailed Features ............... ...................  .26
C.   Project Costs  .         .. ............................  31
D.   Financing  ............................... 32
E.   Procurement .................................... 33
F.   Disbursements  ................... ..... . .34
G.   Accounts and Audits ....# .... *.. .................... 35
H.   Project Completion Report ....... .................  35
I.   Environment and Health ....... f.. ................... . 35
V.          PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  General               ........................... 37
B.   HASYMA ........................................ ..   37
C.   Management of Project components .             .     ................. 40
D.   Annual Work Programs and Reports  ..................... 42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.       TECHNICAL ASPECTS
A.   Yield Contraints .........................              ............ 44
B.  Extension of Areas .................................. 47
C.  Farm Models ......................................... 48
VII.      FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.   HASYMA .        . . 5 .. . ....                         50
B. Government                        ...53
C. Farmers .54
VIII.     ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION             .      .     55
IX.       AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS         . . 58



- iii -
SUPPORTING TABLES, ANNEXES, CHARTS AND MAPS
Table  I  -  Project Cost Summary (by Component and Time)
Table  2  -  Project Financing Plan
Table  3  -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table  4  -  Yield Increases and Incremental Crop Production
Table  5  -  Farm Budgets: Large Farms
Table  6  -  Farm Budgets: Smallholders
Table  7  -  Farm Inputs Requirements
Table  8  -  Agricultural Machinery and
Table  9  -  HASYMA: Historical and Projected Balance Sheets
Table 10  -  HASYMA: Historical and Projected Profit and Loss Accounts
Table 11  -  Government/HASYMA Cash Flow
Table 12  -  Economic Analysis: Cost and Benefit Streams
Table 13  -  Economic Analysis: Sensitivity Analysis
Chart 1   -  Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
Chart 2   -  HASYMA Organization Chart
Map       -  IBRD 15921



MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1,01      First discussions on a possible cotton project were held at a
round table conference on the cotton subsector organized by the Government
of Madagascar in November 1980. Subsequently, HASYMA (cotton parastatal)
prepared a technical note which was submitted to and discussed with IDA.
IDA missions visited Madagascar in 1981 and 1982 to discuss Project
preparation with Government and a preparation report was submitted by
Government in June 1982. This report is based on the findings of the
appraisal mission in November 1982 which was composed of Messrs. Y. Wong
You Cheong, S. von Klaudy, C. Ward, and Ms. Lem Truong (IDA) and Mr. J.
Villeneuve (Consultant). A representative of the French bilateral aid
agency, the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), accompanied
the mission and participated in discussions. During appraisal the focus of
the Project was changed to increase the role of the efficient large private
farms and to eliminate extension of HASYMA's direct production as a Project
component. Negotiations were held in Washington in November, 1983.
1.02      The main objective of the Project would be to increase cotton
production in Madagascar in order to meet domestic cotton fiber demand.  To
meet this goal, the proposed Project would provide for: (i) increasing the
production capacity of cotton producers through the provision of equipment
and inputs; (ii) strengthening cotton development institutions, extension
services and pest control programs; (iii) implementation of an adaptive
cotton research program; and (iv) rehabilitation of cotton tracks in the
Project area.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      General. Madagascar's total land area is about 592,000 km2; about
5% of land is under cultivation and 60% is natural pasture. Agriculture
dominates the economy, contributing about 40% of total GNP and over 80% of
export earnings, and supporting directly over 80% of the population, which
numbers around nine million. The rural economy of Madagascar is as varied
as the climate, topography and soils of the different geographic regions;
the country produces a wide range of agricultural produce, and, although
traditional small-scale agriculture is predominant, production systems
range right up to large-scale mechanized farming. The country is
sparsely populated (averaging 16 inhabitants per km2) but there is great
pressure on cultivable land in some regions.



- 2 -
1.04      Major Crops.  Rice is by far the most important crop.  It is
followed by cassava, which is mostly consumed on the farm. The most
important cash and export crops are coffee, cloves, and vanilla. In 1980
coffee exports contributed almost half of Madagascar's total export
earnings, and cloves and vanilla earned another 20%. Other important cash
crops, not currently exported, include sugar, cotton and tobacco.
Madagascar also produces a wide range of minor commodities, including wine,
tung oil, medicinal plants, ylang ylang and raffia.
1.05      Livestock.  Cattle raising is a traditional activity in
Madagascar, and much of the population is heavily dependent on livestock
production. The cattle herd, estimated at around 10 million head, is
almost entirely owned by traditional herders employing extensive husbandry
systems. As a result, productivity and offtake are low, while the export
trade has declined in the face of increasing domestic demand. Nonetheless
there is excellent potential for augmenting production through
improved herd management and increased offtake, and for increasing output
of other forms of livestock, notably pigs and poultry.
1.06      Farming Systems.  Most of Madagascar's estimated 1.5 million farm
families are smallholders engaged in subsistence farming. Traditional land
rights prevail in most of Madagascar; these recognize individual, heritable
rights to cultivated land and collective rights to pasture. Smallholder
farming techniques range from relatively sophisticated rice cultivation
techniques involving elaborate terracing and partial water control systems
to slash and burn cultivation and semi-nomadic cattle husbandry. During
the 1970s, the Government's role expanded substantially; most noteworthy
were the nationalization of the sugar industry in 1976, and takeover of
input supply, foodcrop marketing and meat processing and export.
C. Recent Sector Performance 1/
1.07      Sector Performance.  The growth of Madagascar's agricultural
production over the past 15 years has been disappointing, in marked
contrast to relatively rapid growth in the 1960s; the average annual growth
rate is estimated at less than 2% since 1970. Sluggish growth in two key
subsectors, rice and livestock, together accounting for over 50% of
agricultural output value, is the most important factor in the sector's
recent stagnation. Export and industrial crop production overall has also
grown only slowly. There have been problems in export crop marketing and
a precipitous decline in some industrial crops, notably sugar and
groundnuts.
1/ Sections C and D of this chapter are an edited version of the Executive
Summary of the recent Agricultural Sector Memorandum (Report No.
4209-MAG June 30, 1983).



1.08      The balance of payments picture for agriculture illustrates the
impact of these problems. The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture
for foreign exchange earnings; agricultural export earnings represented an
estimated FMG 70.3 billion (US$204 million equivalent) or 82% of total
export value in 1980, and amounted to 90% if processed agricultural
products are added. However, prospects for sustaining or expanding exports
are uncertain, both because of slow production growth combined with growing
domestic demand (for sugar and meat, for example), and uncertain world
markets and world market prices, particularly for coffee, cloves, and
cocoa. Meanwhile imports of food products are a heavy and growing burden;
rice imports in 1982 exceeded 350,000 tons, costing over 20% of the total
value of imports.
1.09      The current economic crisis is both an underlying cause and a
result of the poor performance of the agricultural sector; recent
production declines are increasingly explained by foreign exchange
shortages, the deterioration of transportation infrastructure, disruptions
in traditional trading circuits, and the scarcity of consumer goods in
rural areas. Nevertheless, the sector's problems go far beyond these
relatively recent developments, and poor performance over the past decade
is also a consequence of Government policies, including desimentive price
policies, which have caused serious disruptions in agricultural production
systems (notably input supply and marketing), and in institutions
responsible for rural development.
1.10      Government policies in recent years have aimed at increasing the
state's role in economic management.  For agriculture, Government
intervention has focused on control of processing industries, marketing
systems, and the banking system, rather than on the production base, which
remains overwhelmingly in the hands of smallholder farmers. Direct
Government intervention, however, has had a major impact on commercial,
large and medium scale farming and agro-industrial ventures, both by direct
take-overs and through policy measures affecting commercial operations.
Government policies have also actively discouraged private investment in
agriculture, particularly foreign investment, primarily through selective
credit policies and take-overs of private concerns. A critically important
area of intervention is the effort to control marketing by nationalizing
marketing companies, establishing public marketing monopolies, and strict
enforcement of a controlled price environment. These policy interventions
have had the widest-reaching and most deleterious effects on the
agricultural sector.At the same time, the individual farmer has been
neglected, and resources have tended to be allocated to state farming and
production ventures and to promotion of cooperative ventures at farmer
level.



- 4 -
1.11      Madagascar's long term potential for agricultural development is
excellent. However, in the immediate future, intensification of production
on land already under cultivation offers the best prospects. The current
deteriorated state of the transportation network limits access to most
areas where fertile land is underexploited, and heavy infrastructure
investments will be needed to develop much of this new land. There is wide
scope for increasing yields on existing farms, and development strategies
focussed primarily on the smallholder sector offers the best chance of
rapid expansion of output.
D. Government Policy Orientations and Recent Actions
1.12      Over the past two years there has been general recognition of the
failure of agricultural development policies and of the need to revise
policies and implement a short term recovery program as the start of a long
term growth path. As the overall objective for the agriculture sector in
the 1983-85 period, Government has set the restoration of production of key
crops at least to levels which have been achieved in past years. In the
case of rice, Government's objective is to replace imports within a
reasonable time frame. In the longer term Government's objective is to
exploit the productive potential of agriculture as the foundation of the
country's economic growth.
1.13      Over the past year Government has been discussing with the Bank
the elements of a strategy to achieve these objectives. Although the
dialogue continues, the following main elements were agreed between
Government and the donor community at the Consultative Group meeting in
early 1983 as most likely to contribute to achieving the objectives:
Short Term
emphasis squarely on rehabilitation and urgent recovery
measures, with priority to the rice, cotton, coffee, and
livestock sub-sectors;
-    appropriate action to ensure adequate producer incentives,
including regular price reviews and increases; focus on
prices of rice, cotton, coffee and sugar;
-    implementation of recovery programs by existing agencies
which have the capability;
-    attention to rural infrastructure, particularly rural access
and feeder roads;
-    support for private enterprises, where appropriate;
-    emphasis on intensification; and
-    concentration on rehabilitiation of agro-industrial
enterprises or selected large-scale production units of
demonstrated priority.



-5-
Medium and Long Term
-    Clear focus on smallholders and privately owned production
systems;
-    balanced development strategy promoting a range of crops and
taking into account regional variations; encouragement of
diversification of production systems;
-    sharp curtailment of investment in large scale, and
particularly Government-owned and operated, farming
ventures;
-    efforts to divest Government of unsuccessful and
unprofitable parastatal ventures, including some sales to
private operators or use of management contracts;
-    reduction in state marketing ventures; and
-    improvement of agricultural extension in key production
areas and reestablishment of agricultural research.
1.14      Over the past year Government has begun to reformulate policies
in these directions and to develop a strategy for recovery and future
development that follows these lines. Important measures already taken
include:
(1)  Price increases for paddy and rice in May 1982;
(2)  Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA) in
September 1982;
(3)  Efforts to clarify responsibilities for carrying out policy
in the agricultural sector;
(4)  Action programs for key parastatals drawn up and
implementation begun;
(5)  Passage of cost recovery legislation for irrigation systems;
(6)  Action taken to reduce overstaffing in MPARA and
parastatals;
(7)  Comprehensive study for the rice subsector begun;
(8)  Portfolio review to support investment programming exercise
for the agricultural sector underway;
(9)  review of agricultural research in cooperation with the
International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR).
1.15      These measures indicate that Government is taking action to work
out and implement a recovery and development program. However, the process
will inevitably be a long one and will require a firm and sustained
political commitment and a high degree of management skill. An IDA Credit
(Cr. 1249-MAG) is financing the Agricultural Institutions Project that
provides for necessary studies, training and technical assistance. IDA is
also continuing its dialogue with Government at both sector, subsector and
project level to monitor the development of the strategy and identify areas
where support may be necessary.



- 6 -
1.16      The proposed Project fits very closely into the agreed strategy
outlined in Para 1.13 above. Based on smallholder and private farmer
production, it will arrest the decline in cotton production of recent years
and, through intensification and a modest expansion of areas, provide a
rapid boost to output, raising incomes, substituting for imports and
employing processing capacity that is already installed. It is designed as
a quick disbursing project that will not place a burden on Government funds
and will yield rapid returns.  Several key policy issues for the cotton
sub-sector are also addressed through the Project, notably pricing, rural
infrastructure and subsector management.
E. Government Services
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA)
1.17      The Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(MPARA) has the lead responsibility among Government institutions for
management of the agricultural sector. Its jurisdiction covers basic
farmer extension services, rural infrastructure, input supply, plant
protection services, soil conservation and irrigation management. It is
also responsible for agricultural planning, supervision of many parastatals
and for land reform. Between 1979 and September 1982 when it was
reorganized, MPARA adopted an essentially decentralized structure, which
was intended to support the "fokonolona" institutions2/. However, much of
the detail of the activities of these decentralized units and their
relations with central units was never thought through. Particular
problems arose from the blurring of the functional line of authority
between the central technical services of MPARA and field staff. In
addition, decentralized budget procedures were complex and time consuming
while the tight budgetary situation allowed funds to cover salaries and
office expenses and little else. As a result of the many problems
associated with the decentralized system, the Ministry was reorganized in
September 1982. The new structure is centralized, and staff are organized
into line departments representing the major functional disciplines:
extension rural works (irrigation systems and mechanization) and input
supply. The structure also contained departments dealing with animal
production, fisheries and forests, but from July 1, 1983 these were
constituted into a separate ministry (MPAEF). A central finance and
2/ The "fokonolona" institutions are the local government units created
since 1972 in an effort to decentralize decision making and associate local
people with the development process.



administration department has also been established. In the field, staff
are organized into their separate functional disciplines and are
responsible to their respective department headquarters at Antananarivo.
The current structure of MPARA is shown in Chart 1. Technical assistance
for a training program to support the institutional changes is being
provided under the IDA-financed Agricultural Institutions Technical
Assistance Project (Credit No. 1249-MAG).
The Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MIC) 3/
1.18      The Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MIC) has responsibilities
which affect the secondary and tertiary levels of agricultural production.
On pricing, MIC's Pricing Service makes recommendations on official
producer, wholesale and retail prices for a number of crops. These
recommendations are in theory based on an analysis of production costs, but
pricing decisions have often been taken more with a view to keeping
consumer prices down than to maintaining incentives in the production
chain. However, beginning with a round of price increases on rice in 1982,
Government is implementing a more realistic pricing policy, and considering
relaxing price controls for some crops. Another important role of MIC
affecting agriculture is allocation of foreign exchange, where MIC is
responsible, with the Central Bank, for issuing quotas and licenses. MIC's
administration of this system during recent years has been complicated by
the extreme shortage of foreign exchange, and the system has failed in its
objective of channeling available foreign exchange in a predictable fashion
to priority needs. Finally, MIC plays a key role in its responsibilities
for-"industrial investment as much of this investment is designed to process
primary products from the agriculture sector. Lack of coordination between
MIC and MPARA in policy and programs, and conflicting initiatives, have
plagued several subsectors, notably livestock, cereals, cotton (para 2.12)
and edible oil production.
The Ministry of Public Works (MTP)
1.19      MTP is responsible for building and maintaining the country's
primary and secondary road network. Its operational capacity has been
severely limited in recent years by lack of funds and qualified field
staff. As a result, the country's primary and secondary road network is
deteriorating and poses substantial obstacles to the exchange of goods and
services within the economy. Although local government authorities are
officially responsible for the tertiary or feeder road network, their
limited resources and organizational ability have meant they have done very
3/ With the July 1983 reorganization of ministerial responsibilities, MIC
was divided into two new ministries, of which the respective functions are
not yet finalized - the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines, and the
Ministry of Commerce.



-8-
little to maintain and upgrade the road network. As a result many rural
communities are finding themselves increasingly isolated. In light of
current financial constraints, Government has decided to focus on sections
of the road networks that have demonstrated economic importance (the
'economic network") and an IDA project (Sixth Highways) that would support
this strategy has been negotiated.
Agricultural Research
1.20      The National Center for Applied Research on Rural Development
(FOFIFA) was established in 1974 to bring together research activities
previously conducted by a number of specialized research institutes, mainly
overseas stations of French research organizations. FOFIFA was under the
supervision of the Ministry of Higher Education between 1977 and 1981,
which severely weakened the relationship between research and field
applications. As a first step towards correcting the situation,
Government transferred the research function back to MPARA in January
1982. Due to severe shortages of qualified staff, equipment and funds,
FOFIFA has been forced to limit its research program to the principal food
and cash crops. Reviving effective production-oriented research is now a
top Government priority. A study of FOFIFA, financed under the
Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project, has recently been
carried out and a report is being prepared, which will serve as the basis
for a thorough rehabilitation of the institution.
Agricuitural Credit
1.21      Formal credit available to farmers is limited at present, largely
for reasons linked to the economic crisis and the deterioration of rural
institutions. The National Rural Development Bank (BTM), which is being
assisted under the Agricultural Credit Project (Credit No. 1064-MAG), is
a relatively strong institution that has generally been able to maintain
its banking principles and its profitability in a difficult environment.
Lending to the smallholder has always respresented a very small percentage
of BTM's lending, never more than 5% of total lending. For some years BTM
loans to smallholders were made in cooperation with the fokonolona
institutions in a collective credit program designed to reach the maximum
number of small farmers. However, recovery rates have dropped in recent
years and BTM has suspended the scheme in many areas, resulting in a
significant drop in lending activity. In addition, due to the scarcity of
foreign exchange, few inputs are available in Madagascar. To help remedy
the current situation, part of the IDA Credit is being used to finance
fertilizer imports destined for smallholders in selected rice growing
areas. These fertilizers will be provided to farmers under lending
operations directed to individuals, a program that BTM is developing in
conjunction with extension services in those areas where it is convinced of
the soundness of institutions and the value of the extension package.



- 9 -
F. Bank/IDA Projects in Agriculture and Irrigation
1.22      To date, the Bank Group has supported nine agricultural
development projects in Madagascar. Four projects have closed: The Lac
Alaotra Irrigation Project (US$5.0 million), the Morondava Irrigation
Project (US$15.3 million), the Beef Cattle Development Project (US$2.8
million) and the First Forestry Project (US$13.0 million). The First
Village Livestock and Rural Development Project (US$9.6 million) has been
completed and will shortly be closed; six other projects are under
implementation: the Mangoky Agricultural Development Project (US$12.0
million); the Agricultural Credit Project (US$10.0 million); a Technical
Assistance Project to identify means of developing the Plain of
Antananarivo (US$2.3 million); a Second Forestry Project (US$20.0 million);
an Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (US$ 5.7
million); and a Second Village Livestock Project (US$ 15.0 million). A Lac
Alaotra Rice Intensification Project (US$ 18.0 million) has just been
approved.
1.23      Experience with project implementation has been mixed, reflecting
the difficult experience of the agriculture sector in general over the last
few years. The Bank Group's involvement in two irrigation projects
involving rice and cotton production provides striking illustrations of the
impact of policy and the general economic environment on project
implementation. Both the Morondava and the Mangoky projects were designed
to increase production through extension of cultivable land under
irrigation. Both experienced substantial cost overruns which necessitated
reductions in the irrigated area under development. Production too has
slumped on both schemes. The Morondava project, approved in 1972 and
closed in 1981, was a serious problem project. Even after incurring cost
overruns of 70% over appraisal estimates, only 60% of planned land
development was carried out and agricultural production fell far below
appraisal estimates. The rate of return is likely to prove negative. At
Mangoky, yields of seed cotton, the most important crop grown on the
network, plummeted from about 3 tons per ha in the early 70's to less than
one ton per ha and the area cultivated decreased. The deterioration of
agricultural and land development performance had a direct impact on the
financial situation of SAMANGOKY which has accumulated debts of more than
FMG 1.5 billion (US$3.3 million). An additional effect of the company's
difficulties has been a loss of part of the cultivated area due to flooding
and salinity and increasing deterioration of the state of the irrigation
network. Key factors in the performance of these two projects were: (i)
the weakness of the parastatal managing institutions; (ii) the incentive
structure, both at scheme level and in the official pricing systems; (iii)
inadequate arrangements for maintenance and cost recovery on the schemes;
and (iv) the macroeconomic environment, particularly the availability of
foreign exchange. The hard-learned lessons of these two projects are being
applied to the Mangoky project, which has recently been restructured to
reflect implementation experience and Government's recovery policy (para
1.13). The accent in the restructured project is on getting the incentives
right so that both producers and parastatal find production attractive, and
on making the best use of existing investments without undertaking further
expansion. In contrast to this experience, after



- 10 -
initial delays, the executing agency for the First and Second Village
Livestock Projects, FAFIFAMA, developed into a satisfactory institution
with technically competent and dedicated management. Similarly, the
project agency for the First and Second Mangoro Forestry Projects,
FANALAMANGA, established a strong record, with execution of components
ahead of schedule and in line with appraisal cost estimates. However,
technical problems over tree growth have led to a cutback in the planting
program.  In general, most projects are now being adversely affected by the
worsening economic conditions and particularly by shortages of foreign
exchange.
1.24      Two agriculture projects financed by the Bank Group have been
completed and audited by the Operations Evaluation Department. The Audit
Report and the Impact Evaluation Report on the first Lac Alaotra Project
both criticized poor project design and supervision and insufficient
attention to socio-economic and institutional aspects of the project.  In
the recently-approved Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project, these
weaknesses have been taken into account in project design, with more focus
given to institution-building and to farmer involvement, increasing farmer
incentives and self-management to reduce recurrent costs. The Audit Report
on the Beef Cattle Development project concluded that the project had
encountered a host of problems, the most important of which included: (a)
project design poorly suited to local conditions; (b) neglect of land
tenure and socio-economic issues; and (c) differences of approach between
Bank and Government. While these deficiencies substantially reduced the
project's anticipated impact, the experience made a positive contribution
to a rethinking of cattle development projects in Madagascar and a
reorientation of Bank Group subsector lending to focus on the traditional
extensive livestock system.
II. THE COTTON SUBSECTOR
A. Production
General
2.01      Cotton production and the textile industry form one of the most
important economic activities in Madagascar. The textile industry is one
of the country's largest industries, contributing about 33% of the value
added in the manufacturing and extracting industries. Cotton seed is
similarly an important raw material of the vegetable oil industry,
satisfying 15-20% of the local demand for cooking oil, and is a source of
cattle feed in the form of cake. About 20,000 families are involved in the
farm production of cotton, and about 500 persons work for HASYMA, the
cotton processing and marketing firm. The five textile factories and a
score of large garment manufacturers employ another 10,000 persons.
Institutions
2.02      HASYMA.  The dominant institution for cotton production
activities is the parastatal Hasy Malagasy (HASYMA). Its remit broadly
covers cotton processing and marketing, input supply, extension,
coordination aind planning. HASYMA, as the implementing agency for the
proposed Project, is described in detail in Chapter V (paras 5.02 ff).



- 11 -
2.03      Cotton Price Stabilization Fund (CSPC).  Created in 1962 as an
"Etablissement Public" under the supervision of MIC, the Cotton Price
Stabilization Fund (CSPC) was intended to stimulate cotton production and
fiber export, and to ensure coordination between upstream and downstream
activities in the sector. Its revenues derive from (i) the net proceeds of
the sale of cotton seed; and (ii) a levy of FMG 30/kg seed cotton paid by
the textile companies. These funds have been largely used to subsidize
chemical inputs for farmers (para 2.18) although CSPC has made minor
payments to support HASYMA's smallholder extension effort.
Cotton Production
2.04      Cotton production in Madagascar started in 1958 on about 300 ha
but spread rapidly. Until 1968 cotton remained a plantation crop, being
grown on large farms in the north west owned by companies or individuals.
In 1968 smallholder production started and has developed very fast,
principally in the south. Cotton production reached a peak in 1977;
thereafter poor price incentives and technical diffulties largely due to
foreign exchange shortages have contributed to a decline from these peak
levels. Production figures have been as follow:
Tons of        Average
ha.       Seed Cotton        Yield
1965           3905           5809           1.49
1970          10313          18714           1.81
1977          20403          37081           1.82
I-              1980          16985          23210            1.37
1981          18724          27962           1.49
1982          17500          25900           1.48
Cotton production is concentrated almost exclusively on the west coast in
dry areas. There are two well-defined production areas: the northern zone
which is dominated by large, private farms using highly-mechanized
techniques on the flood-recession system of production and the southern
zone which is predominantly smallholder production under irrigated or
rainfed conditions. In spite of serious difficulties in procuring
equipment and spare parts, the large farms have succeeded in maintaining
high yields (average 2.3 tons/ha in 1982). Smallholder production on the
other hand has been erratic with area cultivated sensitive to prices, and
yields more subject to climatic vagaries. Yields have recently averaged
around 1.0 ton/ha. The different production systems are discussed in
greater detail in Chapter III (para 3.06 ff).
Ginning
2.05      HASYMA has a monopoly on marketing and ginning cotton, although
in some areas it has delegated responsibility for buying seed cotton to
other parastatals. HASYMA buys either at its own buying centers or at the
large private farms, and organizes transport, largely by private and by
parastatal transporters. With the deterioration of the rural road network,



- 12 -
shortage of spare parts and problems in the replacement of worn-out trucks,
transportation of seed cotton has become increasingly difficult. HASYMA
gins the cotton in the eight saw ginneries which it owns. Ginning capacity
is presently a nominal 39,000 tons per year but much of the new area that
has come into cotton production in recent years is situated at an
uneconomic distance from existing ginneries. HASYMA has therefore
undertaken an expansion program with a CCCE loan that will add 35,000 tons
of new annual capacity, most of which is at Port-Berge and Toliara. With
these new installations ginnery capacity will be adequate to process
forecast production.
Oil Extraction
2.06      Cotton seeds are an important raw material for Madagascar's
vegetable oil industry. There are about 13 plants equipped to extract oil
from cotton seeds and groundnuts with a total capacity of 60,000 tons of
oil seed a year. Almost all these companies are privately owned. Yields
in cotton seed oil are low, largely because extraction plant is old and
inefficient. The decline in domestic production of cotton seed and
groundnuts in recent years has led to a raw material shortage that palm
kernels and copra have been unable to fill.  Annual domestic oil production
declined from 7,000 tons in 1970 to under 3,000 tons in 1981. Cotton seed
production in 1981 of 16,000 tons yielded around 1,500 tons of oil, 60% of
total production of vegetable oils. There is high unsatisfied demand for
oils and fats estimated at up to 20,000 tons a year, and Government is
considering-alternative strategies to meet this demand. Possible
rehabilitation of edible oil plants is being examined by the Government in
the context an industrial sector investment program.
The Textile Industry
2.07      Cotton fiber is the principal raw material of Madagascar's
textile industry which transforms it into yarns, fabrics and garments. The
two largest factories are majority owned by Government and represent over
85% of total installed capacity. IFC has an investment in one of them,
SOTEMA. The production of the textile industry was fairly stable during
the period 1974-82 at 80-90 million meters of fabrics per year. The drop
in domestic fiber production in 1979-82 together with the shortage of
foreign exchange for the import of fiber and chemicals threaten to
constrain production. However, the mills have so far contrived to maintain
and even expand production to a record 92 million meters in 1982 by
reducing fiber content and recycling chemicals. Utilization of spinning
and weaving capacity in 1982 was a about 84%.



- 13 -
B. Markets and Prices
Markets, Supply and Demand
2.08      Domestic fiber production has long supplied the domestic textile
industry. In the 1970s small surpluses were available for export, but the
expansion of the textile industry during the decade led to mounting demand
that could not be satisfied by domestic production. Total consumption of
fiber by the textile industry averaged 15,000 tons annually between 1979
and 1982, equivalent to 40,000 tons of seed cotton. Domestic cotton fiber
production during the same period averaged only about 11,000 tons per year
and the gap has had to be made up by imported fiber, which has placed a
heavy burden on Madagascar's slim foreign exchange resources. The domestic
fiber shortage has led to the establishment by MIC of a quota system based
on installed factory capacity. Disputes have arisen over the criteria for
establishing quotas and external arbitration is being sought by all parties
concerned.
2.09      Domestic consumption of fabric rose steadily to reach 72 million
meters in 1980. Thereafter a combination of factors has reduced both per
capita and aggregrate domestic consumption: drop in real incomes,
difficulties in the distribution system, particularly in rural areas, and
poor market appeal of the product as shortage of fiber and dyes has led
mills to produce a coarser less colorful fabric. In addition textile firms
have been encouraged by 4lovernment to export and mills have been obLiged to
recover losses on exports through higher prices for domestic sales, which
has had a further dampening effect on the domestic market.
2.10      Future trends in the domestic market are likely to be steady
growth as population expands and the economic situation improves.
Prospects for the export market are also favorable if profitable product
lines can be developed. Government policy is to export production in
excess of domestic demand up to present mill capacity production, and to
allow textile firms to cross-subsidize losses on exports through domestic
sales. From small beginnings in the early 1970s (1.2 million meters in
1972), fabric exports averaged 25-30 million meters 1975-78, dropped off
1979-81 (with a low of 13 million meters in 1980) and picked up again to 25
million meters in 1982. According to figures supplied by textile firms,
the aggregate export financial loss calculated on the basis of average
production cost would put a notional burden of FMG 77 (16 cents) per meter
on domestic cloth sales. However, data on marginal cost of production are
not available apart from some crude indications that, on a sunk cost basis,
the domestic resource cost of foreign earnings is below the official
exchange rate. In the future, increased capacity utilization and the
export of more profitable confectioned goods in place of fabrics should
make export financial losses smaller and permit the reduction of domestic
prices. However, beyond present installed capacity, the domestic resource
cost of textile exports would be significantly higher. The most



- 14 -
appropriate policy for the foreseeable future is thus to restrain further
development of the textile industry and to invest in cotton production
upstream. This policy, which has been adopted by Government and which is
supported under the present Project, is the one that best exploits both
comparative advantage in cotton production and unutilized capacity in the
textile industry. Projected production and demand are as follows:
1982       1985        1988
--million meters of fabric--
Domestic Consumption                   67.1       81.9        89.0
Exports                               24.7        20.0        20.0
Total Fabric Production               91.8       101.9       109.0
Mill Capacity Utilization             84%         93%         99%
-'000 tons seed cotton equiv-
Domestic Production                   28.9        33.4        45.2
Imports                               13.2        11.8         2.6
Total Seed Cotton Consumption         42.1        45.2        47.8
Prices
2.11      Under a law of 1973 Government has the power to fix prices for
most agricultural commodities, including cotton. Under its charter, HASYMA
is required to make annual proposals on seed cotton and fiber price
levels. In the case of fiber, HASYMA's charter clearly defines the
elements that can be counted in to reach the price proposed, but there is
no such provision for the setting of seed cotton prices. In practice,
HASYMA uses farm budgets for two cotton production systems (the large scale
intensive system and the smallholder system), to compute average seed
cotton production cost levels. A margin of 15% is then added, representing
profit on investment (10%) and a reserve for new investment. However, the
final decision on both producer and fiber prices has been largely political
and until 1982 was aimed at keeping the fiber price down. This policy
depressed production and squeezed HASYMA's margins severely. Since 1982,
however, Government has adopted a clearer strategy on cotton pricing (para
2.19). Official seed cotton prices have been substantially increased and
have been supplemented by a production bonus paid by textile factories
(para 2.18). Effective producer and fiber prices now represent over 90% of
import parity price. Textile prices are controlled by MIC and price
increases have to be individually justified. The cost of developing the
justification, the lengthy response time for approval, and in many cases
denial of the request, have caused companies to circumvent the
regulations. This is done by the simple expedient of creating new fabrics
by changing the size of yarn or fabric construction. In essence, any small
variation creates a  new  fabric which allows the company to establish a
new market price.



- 15 -
C. Government Policy and Issues for Development
Government Policy
2.12      Government policy towards cotton in the 1970s was ambiguous.  On
the one hand, MIC actively pursued a policy of expansion of textile factory
capacity well beyond domestic cotton fiber supply while MPARA efforts to
develop cotton production were limited. Towards the large private farms,
policy was one of passive tolerance. Government did not make positive
moves against them, but the economic climate in which they operated became
insecure and their access to credit and foreign exchange was tenuous. Even
for smallholders, there was no well-defined policy to promote cotton
production. In fact, a commitment to develop cotton production only became
evident after the expansion of the textile industry had started when it was
realized that its new capacity would remain under-utilized or be heavily
dependent on imports.
2.13      In the late 1970s the absence of a coherent development strategy
for cotton became evident through the depression of producer and fiber
prices, which led to a production slump. At the same time the generally
deteriorating economic environment had a major impact on cotton.
Insufficient allocations of foreign exchange to cotton parastatals, such as
SAMANGOKY, and to the very important large cotton producers for the import
of urgently-needed machinery and spare parts also contributed to the
decline in cotton production. The rapidly deteriorating state of rural
roads has hampered input supply, access to extension services and
collection of seed cotton. Break-down of the national agricultural
research system has resulted in virtually no technical improvement of the
subsector for many years.
Issues .for Development
2.14      Government was compelled to rethink policy toward the subsector
by the slump in seed cotton production and by the increasing burden of
fiber imports. Farmers can produce cotton at a lower price than imports,
and Government has shaped its development policy to take account of this
comparative advantage. Present plans are to increase cotton production to
the level necessary to satisfy the fiber demands of the local textile
industry. This program will also have an important employment creation
impact. As a first step, Government has addressed producer incentives and
HASYMA's financial viability through a round of price increases that, if
maintained, will ensure adequate remuneration to farmers and restore
HASYMA's financial position. Government has also taken measures to improve
smallholder access to credit and has shifted to a policy of active support
to the large farmers. The present Project is conceived as the vital first
stage of investment in implementing the recovery and expansion program.



- 16 -
However, there are a number of key issues which will have an impact on the
success of this program; these issues are discussed in the succeeding
paragraphs.
2.15      Foreign Exchange Allocations.  The present scarcity of foreign
exchange affecting all sectors of the Malagasy economy has had a severe
impact on the cotton subsector, which is a high consumer of imported
inputs. Until 1981, HASYMA, which is responsible for input supply for all
cotton producers, had no difficulty in obtaining sufficient foreign
exchange but thereafter allocations of foreign exchange through normal
channels have been inadequate and HASYMA could only procure its
requirements under bilateral aid programs. The large planters, who account
for 60% of total cotton production and are dependent upon the use of
mechanical equipment, have also been unable to obtain foreign exchange for
spares and equipment renewal. Most of their equipment pool is past its
useful life and the likelihood of disruption to this production system is
increasing. Smallholder production has already been disrupted as equipment
for animal traction has become scarce.
2.16      It is essential for the future of the cotton subsector that
adequate and timely foreign exchange is made available. Foreign exchange
allocation procedures are under review by Government. Under any new system
the favorable foreign exchange balance of the cotton subsector as a whole,
the enormous forward linkages of cotton production, and the low domestic
resource cost of future textile exports should entitle cotton to the
highest ranking. As foreign exchange flows are vital to the continuation
of Project actions, specific assurances on future foreign exchange
allocations were received at negotiations (para 5.10). In addition,
proposed improvements in the foreign exchange allocation system will be
discussed and monitored in the context of the overall dialogue between
Government and IDA (para 1.15).
2.17      Producer Price Structure.  Until 1983, the price structure of
seed-cotton was complicated and confusing to the producer as the official
seed-cotton price was only one element of the final price received by the
producer. The final producer price consisted of three elements:
(a) an official price announced by Government decree;
(b) a bonus paid to the producer by the textile factories;
(c) a subsidy on chemical inputs used.
The effective prices paid to producers over the period 1977-83 have been as
follows:



- 17 -
FMG/Kg
1977   1979   1981   1983
Producer Price              85     91    105    150
Production Bonus            -      -       30     30
Input Subsidy (average)   19       23      30     30
Total                  104    114    165    210
Approximate Import
Parity Price            170    187    196    227
Percentage                 61%    61%    84%    93%
Thus although official producer prices have risen in nominal terms each
year, the price of cotton remained low in relation to the import parity
price until the end of the 1970s. In addition, during the 1970s the price
of cotton was increased far less than that of other crops, by only 56%
1972-80, against rises of 170% and more for sisal, vanilla and paddy. This
comparison clearly indicates a drastic decline in the profitability of
cotton. This has been further exacerbated by inflation, indicated by a
180% increase in the price index for private consumption 1972-80.
Unattractive prices were a major factor contributing to the fall of cotton
production during those years. In 1981, and again in 1982 and 1983,
official prices were substantially increased. Present final seed-cotton
prices (including the bonus and subsidy) are attractive in relation to
production costs and returns for other crops, and are close to the import
parity price at the official exchange rate. However, these price increases
were made as a haphazard response to declining production and a coherent
approach to producer pricing is only now being established (para 2.19).
2.18      In 1981 in response to declining production, the textile
factories took the initiative to award a productivity bonus of FMG 30/kg
seed-cotton in addition to the official producer price. This bonus was
awarded uniformly to all producers and has been maintained in 1982 and
1983. A subsidy on the use of chemical inputs has been paid to cotton
producers and averages about 50% of the cost of these inputs. This
subsidy, initially designed to support a stabilization fund and to
encourage input use, is financed by the CSPC from the proceeds of the sale
of cotton seeds and by a levy paid by the textile factories (para 2.03).
This policy has, however, tended to favor the large farmers who use higher
levels of inputs, while smallholders tend to cultivate lower potential land
where use of inputs at high levels is not justified. The present subsidy
system therefore appears unecessarily complex and tends to confuse price
signals and to favor input intensive production systems.
2.19      Thus, until 1983 some basic problems of produce pricing had not
been tackled: (i) producer prices had been in the past inadequate; (ii)
price policy was incoherent and the price fixing mechanism inefficient;



- 18 W
(iii) apparent subsidy payments were not subsidies at all, had a distorting
effect on input use and favored the large producer; and (iv) the incentive
element in the price system was dissipated by unclear signals. Government
indicated to IDA, following appraisal, that future price reviews,
commencing with the 1983/84 season, would provide for the progressive
reintegration of the bonus into the producer price. In addition, inputs
will in future be sold on a full cost recovery basis (para 5.10) and
Government confirmed to IDA at negotiations that future price reviews will
set the producer price in relation to the import parity price to maintain
at least the present level of producer incentives. Producer pricing in
relation to project implementation is discussed in Chapter VII (para 7.05).
2.20      Planning and Coordination Mechanism.  Mainly as a result of weak
planning at the central level and of the absence of mechanisms for
consultation and coordination of activities between cotton and textile
producers, the large expansion of the capacity of textile factories in
recent years took place without provision for parallel expansion of cotton
production. In fact, cotton production actually dropped and further
aggravated the supply situation. The only structure that at present
includes representatives of the whole subsector is CSPC (para 2.03) but it
was never intended to play a planning or coordinating role. Government has
confirmed the need for an effective coordination mechanism and has
presented a proposal for a new planning and coordination committee that
would be responsible for overall supervision of subsector programs and
particularly for fiber distribution and pricing proposals. Members of the
committee would be drawn from ministries, cotton producers, and the textile
and oil industries, under the chairmanship of MPARA. Elements in the
proposal, particularly the relationship with the CSPC, remain to be defined
and it will therefore be a condition of Credit effectiveness that a
structure acceptable to IDA has been set up.
2.21      HASYMA's Financial Situation and Structure.  Entrusted by
Government with the supply of services to the cotton subsector, HASYMA is
supposed to derive its profits from a margin on its marketing operations.
HASYMA is thus dependent on two annually variable factors, in addition to
its own efficiency, for its financial equilibrium:on the size of the
margins determined by Government, and on the level of sales.  In recent
years both these factors have been adverse to HASYMA, with Government
squeezing margins and turnover declining with the slump in cotton
production. As a result, HASYMA has, since 1980, incurred mounting losses
on its marketing operation and only covered losses in these years by
profits on other operations. The effects of low profitability on HASYMA's
cash flow have been compounded by heavy obligations for debt repayment on
loans contracted for expansion of its ginning capacity. In order to
restore HASYMA's financial equilibrium and to provide the company with
adequate financial resources to carry out the Project and service its debt,
HASYMA required (i) an injection of permanent capital and (ii) a revision
to the system of margin setting to ensure revenues adequate to cover costs
and build up reserves.  Government injected fresh capital into HASYMA in
early 1983.  It has also provided for adequate margins in the fiber cost



- 19 -
structure to cover HASYMA's operating costs and build up reserves.
HASYMA's financial status and forecasts in relation to the Project are
discussed in more detail in Chapter VII (para 7.01 ff).
2.22      The State of Rural Roads.  As elsewhere in Madagascar, the road
and track network in the cotton-producing areas is in poor condition due to
inadequate maintenance arising from the weakness of rural institutions and
from lack of funds. In theory, the main roads are maintained by MTP (para
1.21) and the access roads by the local authorities. The rehabilitation of
the main roads in the Project area, including the Mahajanga to Port Berge
trunk road in the north-west and the Toliary to Tanandava and Toliary to
Ihosy trunk roads in the south-west, is already provided for under present
Government plans for rehabilitation of the "economic network (para 1.19).
However, there is no plan for rehabilitation of the cotton tracks which
play a vital role in the supply of inputs, transport of seed-cotton and the
opening-up of new production areas. In the north, where many roads pass
through the flood plain, access to areas of very high production potential
has dwindled as tracks have deteriorated; transport costs have risen and
some areas risk becoming inaccessible with consequent impact on
production. In the south, tracks have also deteriorated from lack of
maintenance. In both zones, some rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance
of cotton tracks is thus essential if cotton production is to be maintained
and expanded. Arrangements under the Project are discussed in detail in
Chapter IV (para 4.04).
2.23      Government Policy towards Large Private Farms.  For years the
large private farms, _particularly those owned by non-Malagasy nationals,
have operated in a climate of uncertainty (para 2.12). In the cotton
subsector the technical strength and efficiency of the large farmers did
win them some protection as the backbone of cotton production, but even
cotton farmers have suffered from official neglect and, most recently, from
foreign exchange shortages (para 2.15). Government has recently taken
steps to reassure these farmers of their key role in cotton production and
development and to recognize that role through support under the present
Project (para 4.02, 4.05).
2.24      Research . Technical support to the cotton production subsector
is provided by IRCT through periodic missions but there is no research
capacity within FOFIFA (para 1.22) for the introduction and testing of new
varieties, the design and testing of effective pest control programs and
the testing of improved cultural practices. Such a capacity needs to be
established in order to improve the technical efficiency of the subsector.



- 20 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Physical Characteristics
3.01      The Project area (Map IBRD 15921) comprises a number of scattered
production areas in four faritanys (provinces). These areas fall into two
broad zones characterized by contrasting production systems, located to the
north and south of the Tsiribihina River, totalling about 131,200 km2. The
northern zone, where production is on the "flood-recession" system,
consists basically of two areas, the region around Ambilobe in the faritany
of Antsiranana and the triangle around Maevatanana, Ambato-Boeni, and Port
Berge, in the faritany of Mahajanga. The whole area is flat except for
some low hills, and does not rise much above sea level. The landscape is
dominated by many wide rivers and severe floods occur in the rainy season
cutting off many cotton farms for months. The southern zone, where
production is rainfed or irrigated, includes the regions of Mangoky,
Morondava, Toliara in the faritany of Toliara, and Ihosy in the faritany of
Fianarantsoa. It stretches from the coast at Toliara and reaches inland
with increasing altitude up to Ihosy. The landscape is varied, being flat
at lower altitudes but becoming more undulated inland. There are also some
small, dispersed cotton production zones such as the Middle West, but they
have relatively little economic importance.
3.02      Climate.  In the northern zone, rainfall varies from 1500 mm per
year at Mahajanga to 1800 mm at Ambilobe, concentrated over a period of
four months from November to April. The average daily temperature is 280C
in the summer and 230C in the winter. By contrast, in the southern zone,
particularly around Toliara, rainfall is less than 500 mm per year but
rises with increasing altitude to over 700 mm inland at Ihosy. On average,
soil water deficits occur from March to December, decreasing inland with
increasing altitude. Daily mean temperatures vary from 230 to 250C.
Annual potential evapo-transpiration in both zones is around 1300 mm.
3.03      Soils.  The soils have been thoroughly surveyed and soil maps of
both the northern and southern areas have been prepared. Soil surveys in
the north indicate that a total area of about 20,000 ha would be suitable
for cotton production around Bemarivo and in the valleys of the Sofia River
and of the Kimangoro-Mahajamba Rivers. Around Ambilobe, alluvial soils
exceed 1300 ha. The cotton soils are highly productive alluvial soils,
hydromorphic, with a sandy to silty clay texture, and rich in bases,
notably calcium and magnesium. Available phosphate, sulphur and organic
matter contents are low. In the south, surveys also indicate the
availability of significant areas suitable for cotton production, totalling
13,000 ha, around Manombo, Befandriana Sud, Ankazoabo, Bas-Fiherenana and
Moyen-Fiherenana. Soils range from alluvial sands and sandy loams around
Toliara in the delta to tropical ferruginous soils, which make up the bulk
of cotton soils, and vertisols around Ihosy. Available phosphate and
organic matter contents are low. The production potential of these soils
under rainfed conditions is low to medium.



- 21 -
B. Population and Labor Supply
3.04      The population in the Project area is predominantly rural with
low density, varying from 3.1 per sq km in Ihosy to about 17.5 per sq km in
Bas-Fiherenana in the southern zone; and from 3.6 per sq km in Tsaratanana
to 10.1 per sq km in Ambilobe in the northern zone. Total Project area
population of slightly over 800,000 gives an average density of 6.1 per
sq. km. The average family has six members. Although population densities
are low, availability of labor is not a constraint for the large farms in
the northern zone as there is significant seasonal migration of casual
labor from the central highlands, mainly for cotton harvesting. Also,
permanent labor has been provided by spontaneous settlement of whole-
villages of migrants, mainly from the central highlands, around the large
cotton farms. In the southern zone, which is dominated by smallholders,
most agricultural activities are carried out by family labor and there is
little demand for hired labor except for specific tasks such as weeding.
Cotton production tasks in this zone are clearly defined between men and
women, with the men carrying out the majority of tasks and the women being
primarily responsible for planting and weeding.
C. Land Tenure
3.05      The system of land tenure differs greatly between the northern
zone and the southern zone. In the north, about four-fifths of the cotton
production area consists of large farms. These farms were originally
granted on a non-transfe-rable basis by the colonial administration to
individuals or firms, mainly of non-Malagasy origin. After independence,
many of the beneficiaries of land granted on a non-transferable losses left
Madagascar and their holdings reverted to the state. Cotton farms,
however, have been an exception to this process and the large farms remain
the motor of production in the sub-sector. Legislation passed in the
1960s, however, prohibits further grants of land to non-nationals.
Outside these large farms, land belongs either to the state or to
smallholders under traditional tenure rights. These rights are acquired by
continuous cropping over a period and are supervised by local authorities.
There has been no general cadastral survey of these lands and registration
of rural holdings has been practiced only in the immediate vicinity of
large towns. Holdings in the south are almost entirely smallholder plots
on this pattern. Farmers who wish to extend their cropping areas but have
no more land usually rent from other proprietors and apparently have no
problems in obtaining such lands. The large expansion of the total cotton
areas between 1958 and 1978 took place smoothly without reported land
tenure conflict. Finally, the cotton areas on the Mangoky and in the Ihosy
area are state lands on which cotton growers remain tenants. This tenancy
system seems to have dulled incentives and inhibited improvement of land.
Land tenure in relation to the proposed Project is explored in more detail
in Chapter V (para 5.12).



- 22 -
D. Production Systems
3.06      Production systems vary a great deal between the northern and
southern zones and between large farms and smallholders.  In the northern
zone, cotton is growri during the dry winter season from April to October on
the flood-plains after the retreat of the flood-waters. Other cropping
activities are carried out also on the flood-plains during this season or
on high ground during the rainy season. The southern zone follows the
normal cropping cycle of the wet season from December to March under both
rainfed and irrigated conditions. All cropping activities are concentrated
over this season, except on the large scale irrigation schemes where a
secondary crop may also be cultivated during the dry season. In 1981, the
relative importance of the zones and production systems was as follows:
Flood
Recession Irrigated Rainfed Total
Northern Zone
Large Farms                  5837       -        -     5837
State Farms                   612       -        -      612
Smallholders                 1480       -        -     1480
7929      -        -      7929
Southern Zone
Large Farms                    -        44      681      725
State Farms                    40       -       906     946
Smallholders                   -      6590    2534    9124
40    6634    4121   10795
Total Area                   7969    6634    4121   18724
Average Yields (ton/ha)    2.08    1.20    0.97    1.49
The Northerrn Zone
3.07      Production in the north is dominated by the 43 large cotton
plantations, which have accounted for a steady 6500 ha over the past five
years, while smallholdings cover about 1700 ha. The size of large farms
ranges from 40 to 1500 ha. Average size is 170 ha but four farms cover
more than 50% of the total area. About a dozen of these farms are limited
companies registered in Madagascar, the others operate as sole farmers or
partnerships. Owners include a number of Malagasy nationals, and
non-Malagasy of diverse origins, including French, Greek and Indian.
SOTEMA, one of the textile firms, recently purchased a minority interest in
one cotton farm. These farms used to grow tobacco and groundnuts in



- 23 -
addition to cotton but, due to low producer prices and problmEs wivdrh
payment by marketing parastatals, they have recently conventrated their
efforts on growing cotton.  Mechanized cultural operations and ..itensive
use of fertilizers and insecticides characterize these large plantations
and enable them to account for 60% of total production. Smallholder
production is practised in the northern zone in three separate areas: (i)
in the extreme north, around Ambilobe, where about 800 ha are cultivated on
an average plot of 1 ha; (ii) around Mahajanga, where there was no cotton
cultivation by smallholders until 1978; it now covers 200 ha in
approximately 200 farm units; and (iii) around Port Berge, where about 200
smallholder farms cultivate approximately 400 ha of cotton. The same
system of "flood-recession cultivation" as employed by large farmers is
practised by the smallholders. However, yields are much lower, only
averaging about 1 ton/ha against over 2.0 tons/ha obtained by the large
farms in the same area. Land preparation on smallholdings is carried out
by tractor or by oxen, but planting, thinning, weeding, insecticide
application and harvesting are all done by family labor. The other major
cash crops traditionally grown in the northern zone are tobacco and
groundnuts but production of both has declined dramatically in recent
years. The main subsistence crops are cassava, maize and rice. Rice is
cultivated during the rainy season (December to May) at the same time as
maize and cassava which are grown on higher ground.
The Southern Zone
3.08      Cotton production in the southern zone is predominantly by
smallholdets and accounts for about a third of total domestic production.
Production is under both rainfed and irrigated conditions, with the
irrigated area accounting for 60% of total area.
3.09      Rainfed Areas.  (I) Toliara.  In Toliara rainfed areas cover:
Moyen Fiherenana, Analamisampy and Ankazoabo. The rainfed area cultivated
has been highly volatile, sensitive to relative prices and returns. In
Toliara, there was a dramatic increase in rainfed area cultivated from 3100
ha in 1973 to 8700 ha in 1978 but the area fell back to 4000 ha in 1979.
Crop production patterns throughout these areas are similar and are based
on four cropping activities. Cotton production is by far the most
important activity, covering between 1/3 and 2/3 of total cropped area.
The typical farm covers 2 ha with 45% of the area under cotton, 20% under
maize, 15% under cassava and 20% under butter beans. Farmers start
planting cotton in November-December, immediately followed by maize,
cassava and butter beans. There is, therefore, competition between
cropping activities and the farmer's decision is dictated by factors such
as staple food requirements, relative prices and availability of markets.
3.10      (II) Ihosy.  This rainfed cotton area in the faritany of
Fianarantsoa comprises about 1000 ha divided into 28 blocks of an average
area of 40 ha (1 ha per family). The area is cultivated by smallholders
under HASYMA management in a system of "association" similar to the one



- 24 -
practiced in Mangoky (para 3.13). The lands belong to the state, having
been put at the disposal of HASYMA for cotton production. Owing to the
relatively higher rainfall (850 mm per year) than in Toliara, potential
yields are higher and have in the past averaged more than 2.2 tons/ha. The
limiting factor is the unreliable rainfall distribution over the growing
year. HASYMA provides prepared land, arranges insect pest control by
aircraft, and supervises the destruction of cotton plants after the
harvest. Farmers are responsible for planting, thinning, weeding,
fertilizer application and harvesting.  Cotton is gromn during the rainy
season from November to March together with maize and cassava. There are
two crops of rice a year, during the rainy season and during the dry season
(May to October).
3.11      (III) Morondava.  This is a minor cotton producing area
comprising (a) the SODEMO rainfed cotton farm of over 1000 ha established
under the Morondava Irrigation Project (para 1.23), where, in 1982, about
600 tons of seed-cotton were produced on 500 ha; and (b) Bevantaza farm
producing 145 tons on 45 ha in 1982. SODEMO practices the same system of
association as SAMANGOKY (para 3.13) but has experienced chronic management
and financial problems. The potential yield under the rainfed conditions
is about 1.6 tons/ha but improved pest control and crop management are
required. In addition, in the Morondava area, about 800 ha are cultivated
annually by smallholders under rainfed conditions, with yields averaging 1
ton/ha.
3.12      Irrigated Areas: (I) Toliara.  In this area, there are two main
irrigated cotton production schemes: Bas-Fiherenana (3000 ha, constructed
in 1961 under EDF financing) and Manombo (2700 ha, constructed in 1940).
The climate is arid tropical with annual rainfall of about 400 mm
distributed over only two months. Crop production on the red sands
characteristic of the region is only possible with irrigation. Over 85% of
the total area is cultivated by smallholders. Cotton yields under
irrigation have tumbled from around 1.0 ton/ha in 1975-76 to about 0.4
tons/ha over the past three years. The drop in yields is mainly due to the
poor condition of the irrigation infrastructure and the lack of interest
arising from low cotton prices.
3.13      (II) Mangoky.  The irrigation infrastructure at Mangoky covers
over 4000 ha available for cotton. The ongoing IDA-financed Mangoky
project (para 1.23), concentrating on rice, will bring a further 300 ha
into cotton production by 1985. Construction is sophisticated, consisting
of elevated concrete canals which require very little maintenance. Water
distribution is effected through modulated gates. SAMANGOKY, a regional
development parastatal created in 1961, manages the scheme.  Production is
on a tenancy basis, with a system of association between SAMANGOKY and the
tenants, whereby mechanical land preparation, planting, fertilizer
application, and aerial insecticide spraying are either provided directly



- 25 -
or contracted by SAMANGOKY while the tenants carry out thinning, weeding
and picking. Yields which averaged 2.6 tons/ha in 1971-5, have plummeted
in recent years to a low of 0.8 tons/ha in 1982 as SAMANGOKY experienced
severe financial problems and was unable to provide services to
smallholders. A recovery program for SAMANGOKY is being financed under the
IDA-supported Mangoky Project (para 1.23) and further technical assistance
is to be provided under the present Project (para 4.07).
Extension Services
3.14      Extension services in the Project area are provided by several
agencies. Cotton production activities are handled by HASYMA's extension
services throughout the Project area except on the Mangoky scheme where
SAMANGOKY is responsible, and on SODEMO's cotton farm. Other crop
production and livestock activities are supported by MPARA's
fieldservices. These services are generally weak, are handicapped by lack
of technical, financial and physical resources, and do not provide an
adequate support to farmers. In the southern cotton zone, a regional
development parastatal (FIFATO) provides extension services to non-cotton
cropping activities on the irrigation schemes of Manombo and
Bas-Fiherenana. Suffering from the same problems as MPARA's field
services, FIFATO has been weak and ineffective.
Credit
3.15      BTM, the agricultural credit bank (para 1.21), is responsible for
extending credit in the Project area. Programs cover seasonal credit and
medium term credit for equipment purchase and land development. Interest
rates are considered positive at between 14% and 18% depending on terms and
conditions. Unlike other subsectors, cotton's status as a cash crop, its
profitability and the organization of the subsector have ensured that
credit is generally available. The large farms have had no difficulty in
obtaining credit, although some farms are in arrears from the years of low
producer prices. BTM and the industrial bank BNI, which also maintains
cotton loans in its protfolio, rely heavily on HASYMA's technical analysis
of credit proposals. Both banks express optimism about the future of large
farm production of cotton and propose to expand their lending. Similarly
smallholders have had no problem in obtaining credit whether for equipment
or for services and inputs. BTM has appointed HASYMA as its agent and
HASYMA provides services and inputs to cotton farmers on credit terms
according to an agreement signed between the two organizations. Payment is
deducted from proceeds when farmers deliver their seed cotton to HASYMA's
collection centers. Since HASYMA has the marketing monopoly, recovery
rates are virtually 100%.



- 26 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed Project would support Government's cotton
development program aimed at expanding seed cotton production over a four
year period from 1982 levels of around 26,000 tons to about 45,000 tons,
thereby saving foreign exchange expenditures on cotton fiber imports.
Increases in production would be achieved by increasing yields on existing
areas and by extending cultivation through the development of a further
8000 ha. Smallholders and large private farms would contribute to these
increases in production in about equal proportions. The Project would
include the following components:
(a) provision of equipment and vehicles to replace and expand
existing pools and so improve yields and extend areas
planted to cotton;
(b) construction of workshops and stores to maintain equipment
and vehicles and ensure input supply;
(c) rehabilitation and maintenance of cotton tracks to improve
communications for input supply and marketing;
(d) provision of farm inputs to maintain and improve
productivity;
(e) adaptive cotton research and pre-production trials aimed at
boosting yields and improving production techniques;
(f) technical assistance to HASYMA (Project agency) and
SAMANGOKY (cotton parastatal), training of their personnel
and strengthening of the Project agency's data processing
system;
(g) monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, and
(h) studies.
B. Detailed Features
Provision of Equipment and Vehicles
4.02      Lack of replacement equipment and vehicles, and chronic shortages
of spare parts for existing equipment have been a critical constraint on
the maintenance and expansion of cotton production. Equipment and vehicles
would therefore be provided under the Project for sale to producers. For



- 27 -
the large private farms, the equipment and vehicles would consist mainly of
bulldozers, tractors and such tractor accessories as ploughs, harrows,
ridgers, seed drills, sprayers and rotary slashers for cotton residues, and
vehicles such as trucks and cars. With the use of this equipment, the
large farms are expected to extend the area cropped to cotton by 3000 ha.
Chronic shortages of spare parts have also been a critical constraint.
however, spare parts for agricultural equipment are likely to become
available through dealers in the near future with financing from various
projects, possibly including the IDA-supported Agricultural Credit
Project. For smallholders, equipment would comprise animal traction
equipment. The total area cropped by smallholders is expected to increase
by about 5000 ha. HASYMA, the cotton parastatal, would receive equipment
for its own demonstration farms and seed production centers. In addition,
HASYMA would receive essential transport vehicles (trucks, cars,
motorcycles and bicycles) for its extension services and for the transport
of inputs. It would also be provided with a passenger aircraft to
facilitate access to widely scattered production locations. Acquisition of
this 4-6 seater single engine plane is expected to reduce transport costs
significantly by eliminating costly charters and to improve management and
staff contact with the field, both in the north where most farms are cut
off by flooding for several months and in the south where the rugged
terrain makes access difficult year round. Most cotton farms and areas
have landing strips and for a number of years HASYMA operated its own
aircraft effectively. A radio-communication system to improve pest control
programs is also included in the Project.
Workshops and Stores
4.03      HASYMA does not have sufficient workshop space to maintain
vehicles and equipment and two workshops, one in Mahajanga and the other in
Toliara, would be constructed and the necessary equipment purchased with
Project funding. HASYMA's office accommodation and input storage
facilities at group of villages level would be reinforced through the
construction of four combined office/stores of 200 m2 each at Ankililoaka,
Tsianisiha, Makaboboka and Vineta.
Rehabilitation of Cotton Tracks
4.04      Deterioration of tracks leading from the road network to the farm
gates has become a serious constraint to the maintenance and development of
cotton production (para 2.22). In the south these tracks are very simple
and carry very little traffic except in the short season when the cotton
harvest is collected and inputs for the next year delivered. Only minor
improvements combined with regular maintenance are necessary to keep these
tracks servicable and the project would therefore provide for (a) building
of a few structures to alleviate key bottlenecks (base cost US$ 97,000) and
(b) regular maintenance of the whole track network in the south (225
kilometers) by simple least cost means (base cost over the project period
US$ 450,000). In the north tracks are also used mainly for cotton but as
many of them pass through the flood plain they demand a higher standard of
construction and maintenance if they are to remain servicable. Much more
substantial quantities of cotton are transported along these tracks than
along those in the south and a high level of investment is thus justified.



- 28 -
The project would therefore provide for (a) building of structures to
alleviate key bottlenecks together with new alignments on high ground for
approximately 50 km of tracks presently inundated (base cost US$ 1.41
million), (b) supply of four ferries (base cost US$ 170,000), and (c)
regular maintenance of the whole track network in the north (260 km) by
simple least cost means (base cost over the project period US$ 450,000).
Quantities are estimated from the results of field reconnaissance priced in
line with recently let contracts from an acceptable basis for the cost
estimates in the in normal tolerances except for new alignments where
earthwork quantities have not been the subject of detailed survey. Because
of comparatively high uncertainties of the track component in the north a
special contingency of 60% of base costs has been built into the Project
costs (para 4.12). Detailed engineering for structures and new alignments
is expected to be ready by early 1984. Technical assistance to supervise
construction and maintenance activities has been included in the costs
(US$254,000).
Provision of Farm Inputs
4.05      Owing to the foreign exchange crisis, HASYMA has been finding it
increasingly difficult to obtain the necessary chemical inputs to supply
the cotton producers. Under the Project, fertilizers, insecticides and
herbicides would be imported for sale to producers, with Project finance of
100% in the first and second years of the Project, declining to 60% in the
third year and about 20% in the fourth year. The Project would also
provide for the reinforcement of on-going seed production programs.
Research and Trials
4.06      To provide an effective technical back-up to cotton production an
adaptive cotton research program would be implemented under the Project by
the national research agency, FOFIFA. FOFIFA would be assisted by the
French research agency, IRCT, which is already providing assistance to
HASYMA for pre-production trials. The program would comprise trials on
FOFIFA's three research stations in the cotton production areas, followed
by pre-production trials on farmer plots. Topics would include
introduction and testing of cotton varieties to improve quality, ginning
rate and disease resistance; pesticide efficiency and application trials;
on-farm fertilizer requirement tests to establish response curves for
varying soil, available moisture, and farming system conditions; use of
farmyard manure; and crop rotation trials with a view to the after-effect
of fertilizer and manure applications on cotton. Particular attention
would be given to the development of integrated pest control programs and
the on-going insecticide testing programs would be reinforced and focussed
on effective, selective new insecticides with lower health hazards to man
and the environment. Assurances were received at negotiations that a
detailed research program will be presented for IDA's comments by June 30,
1984 and a final program by September 30, 1984.



- 29 -
Technical Assistance, Training, and Data Processing
4.07      Under a management contract with CFDT, HASYMA presently receives
some technical assistance but this assistance needs to be expanded in five
key areas: (a) management of the agricultural program, including design and
testing of improved cotton production systems; (b) ginnery operation; (c)
design and implementation of extension training programs; and (d) financial
management and management information systems. Under the Project,
therefore, the following technical assistants would be financed for four
years: an agricultural manager for headquarters to coordinate programs, an
agricultural manager for field operations in the north, a ginnery
specialist, a financial manager and an agriculturalist for adaptive
research and extension training in the south. In addition, the Project
would provide for short periodic missions of external experts for the
design and monitoring of research and pest control programs. Funds would
also be provided under the Project to support the cotton producing
parastatal SAMANGOKY, through the extension for two years (1985 and 1986)
of the services of the three experts to be recruited in 1983/84 under the
Mangoky Project (para 1.23); the experts would consist of a cotton
agronomist, an irrigation engineer and a mechanical engineer. Total
technical assistance provided under the Project amounts to 26 man years,
all internationally recruited. Job descriptions were agreed at
negotiations. Assurances were received at negotiations that terms of
reference and curricula vitae of proposed candidates for technical
assistance posts will be presented for IDA's prior approval.
4.08      Training for HASYMA staff would include the following areas: (a)
crop husbandry and extension methodology for extension personnel; (b) land
preparation techniques; (c) plant and vehicle maintenance and repair for
workshop and garage staff; and (d) accounting. Relevant parts of the
training program would be opened to personnel of the large private farms
and the two parastatal agencies, SAMANGOKY and SODEMO. Training would be
done through short practical courses and on the job training either by the
technical assistants or by subject matter specialists recruited on short
term contracts as required. For management staff, training would consist
mainly of on the job training, study tours to similar development schemes
and seminars on management of agricultural development and on management
techniques, including management information systems. Under the Project, a
total of $200,000 would be provided to support these activities. This
amount would cover the costs of three short-term overseas courses of 1-3
months for the General Manager and the two Regional Managers; ten
short-term training courses of 1-3 months overseas or locally for technical
staff; and six short courses of 1-3 months for managers and staff in



- 30 -
personnel, finance and procurement. The Project would also provide $25,000
for the purchase of training materials and equipment to support the
training of extension agents. The training program was agreed at
negotiations, where it was agreed that by June 30, 1984 a training
coordinator would be designated to help the General Manager plan and
coordinate HASYMA's training program.
4.09      HASYMA has ar. elaborate computerized accounting system derived
from standard systems employed in many West African countries. However,
the system does not meet HASYMA's needs in two important areas, financial
information for management purposes and timely accounting for smallholder
transactions. The computer specialist to be recruited as a technical
assistant (para 4.07) would work with HASYMA to identify appropriate
modifications to the system, and a sum of US$125,000 has been provided
under the Project to purchase the necessary hardware and software.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10      This component would be the main tool for monitoring and
evaluation of Project activities, to assess the impact of the Project on
production, on the Project area and on the population. HASYMA's
headquarters Research Unit will be responsible for monitoring Project
activities in additon to its ongoing responsibilities for monitoring and
evaluation. The functions of the unit would be: (i) to provide management
information for decision taking; (ii) to coordinate monitoring of technical
aspects of HASYMA's program, particularly the pest control programs; and
(iii) to provide data for continuous and ex post evaluation of Project
costs and benefits in relation to targets. The reporting formats would
comprise regular quarterly reports on key parameters, major annual reports
synthesizing data and conclusions over the year, and ad hoc reports on
special studies. The unit would also prepare information necessary for
inclusion in the annual work programs (para. 5.15). The quarterly and
annual reports would be submitted on a regular basis to IDA for comment as
an integral part of HASYMA's reports (para 5.18). Under the Project,
baseline and follow-up surveys would monitor the evolution of the following
broad parameters: (i) agricultural production survey, targeted on
production practices under smallholder conditions, on production costs
under varying production patterns, on adoption rates and input use on the
respective returns to cotton, other cash crops and foodcrops, and on the
comparative costs of animal and motor traction; (ii) socio-economic
indicators for farms and farm households, including household composition,
labor availability and labor use, inventory of household resources,
off-farm exployment and sources of income, literacy, schooling, nutritional
and health situation, physical mobility and relationship to community;
(iii) organizational relationships between farmers and HASYMA; (iv)
pesticide application and impact; and (v) road use.   HASYMA is preparing a
detailed program for this component through consultants, and it was agreed
at negotiations that the program would be presented by HASYMA for IDA's



- 31 -
comments by June 30, 1984 and that the finalized program would be submitted
by September 30, 1984. Thereafter the work program of the unit would be
agreed each year with IDA in the context of the annual work program (para
5.14). An indicative sum of US$240,000 has been provided under the Project
for supplementary staff and equipment and for the cost of consultant
services for special surveys.
Studies
4.11      A total of US$ 335,000 would be provided for studies to be
carried out for HASYMA. At negotiations draft terms of reference were
discussed for two priority studies. The first of these is an institutional
study of HASYMA, both internal (management audit) and external (role in the
subsector vis a vis other institutions, local communities etc.). A team
from CCCE (cofinanciers) was in the field in late 1983 carrying out a
preliminary review of HASYMA and terms of reference for the proposed study
will be further elaborated once the results of the preliminary review are
available in early 1984. A second study for HASYMA would review prospects
for future development of cotton production and assess the feasibility of a
further stage in Government's cotton development program. Assurances were
received at negotiations that, for all studies and project preparation
work, the selection procedure of the consultants, their terms of reference
and proposed contracts would be acceptable to IDA.
C. Project Costs
4.12      Total Project costs are estimated at about FMG 16.3 billion
(US$34.4 million), of which about FMG 13.8 billion (US$29.1 million), or
85%, represents foreign exchange costs. These cost estimates include only
negligible amounts of taxes corresponding to sales taxes on locally
produced goods. Government has not yet determined whether goods imported
under the Project would be free of taxes and duties. If imported goods are
not free of taxes and duties, project cost would increase by about FMG 1.2
billion (US$ 2.5 million). The following table is a summary of Project
costs, with a more detailed breakdown appearing in Table 1.



- 32 -
(FMG Million)           (US$ Million)   % of
Foreign % of Total
Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange Base Costs
Agricultural Equipment - Large Farms   480.2  4,323.9  4,804.1  1.01  9.10   10.11  90           33
- HAS)MA          46.1    416.1    462.2  0.10  0.88    0.98  90            3
- Smallholders    19.0    171.0    190.0  0.04  0.36    0.40  90            5
Workshops and Stores                   159.1    254.1    413.2  0.34  0.53    0.87  61            3
Cotton Track Rehabilitation            491.9    846.2  1,338.0  1.04  1.78    2.82  63            9
Agricultural Inputs                    583.3  5,228.8  5,812.1  1.23 11.01   12.24  90           33
Research and Development                25.4    227.8    253.2  0.05  0.48    0.53  91            2
Technical Assistance                   100.7    854.5    995.2  0.21  1.80    2.01  90            9
Monitoring & Evaluation                 28.7    144.6    173.4  0.06  0.30    0.36  83           1
Training                                 0.5    100.7    101.2  0.00  0.21    0.21  99           1
Studies                                 31.8    127.3    159.1  0.07  0.27    0.34  79           1
Total BASELINE (DSTS                  1,966.7 12,695.0 14,661.7  4.15 26.72   30.87  87         100
Physical Contingencies                108.8   356.7    465.5  0.23  0.75    0.98  77            3
Special Contingencies (Track Component) 160.6   240.8    401.4  0.34  0.51    0.85  61          3
Price Contingencies                   275.0   516.4    791.4  0.58  1.09    1.67  65           5
Total PR1aEC CDSTS                    2,511.1 13,808.9  16,320.0  5.30 29.08   34.37  85        111
4.13       Project costs are estimated in late 1983 values on the basis of
prices prevailing in January 1983 adjusted for inflation and confirmed or
updated in many cases by recent contract prices. A physical contingency of
5% was applied to the cost of agricultural inputs, and at rates between 10%
and 20% for civil works and track maintenance. A special contingency of
60% over estimated base cost was applied to the northern track
rehabilitation sub-component (amounting to base costs of US$1.4 million)
because of uncertainties over estimates, as outlined in para 4.04. No
physical contingency was provided on equipment, vehicles and technical
assistance, monitoring and evaluation, training or studies. Price
contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis, at 12% for domestic
inflation, and for international inflation at 7.5% in 1983 and 1984, 7% in
1985, 6% in 1986 and 6% in 1987.
D. Financing
4.14       The sources of funds to finance the Project are summarized below:
FMG    US$       %
-millions-
IDA                       3752       7.9   23
IDA Special Fund          4417       9.9   28
CCCE                      5795      11.3   33
HASYMA/Farmers            2090       5.3   16
Total                  16320     34.4  100



- 33 -
4.15      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 7.5 million (US$7.9 million) and
IDA Special Credit of SDR 9.4 million (US$9.9 million) would be on standard
terms to Government. The Credit would finance imports of vehicles and
equipment and agricultural inputs (starting in the second year) and the
costs of consulting services up to US$100,000. The proposed IDA Special
Credit would finance the second and subsequent years of imports of vehicles
and equipment up to US$1.0 million and of agricultural inputs up to US$3.0
million. The Special Credit would also finance the foreign exchange costs
of civil works for the track rehabilitation, and of technical assistance,
monitoring and evaluation, training and studies. Should, after detailed
engineering, the special contingency for northern tracks prove too high,
the corresponding Special Credit funds would be used for financing a small
part of local costs for track maintenance. Financing of inputs would be
provided on a declining share basis (para 4.05). The Credit and Special
Credit funds provided to HASYMA under the Project would be in the form of a
loan, in the case of capital expenditures, and in the form of a grant, in
the case of costs not directly related to HASYMA's commercial operations
(monitoring and evaluation, training and technical assistance). Lenuine
terms wii be 14/o interest with principle repayable over seven years after
two years grace. Funds used to purchase equipment, vehicles and inputs for
farmers would be repaid by farmers on cash or commercial credit terms.
Transfers to HASYMA would be made under a financing agreement between
Government and HASYMA. Signature of this subsidiary agreement approved by
IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. It is expected that the
CCCE loan of total 86.3 million French francs would be made to Government
and would be repayable over ten years after a five year grace period, at an
interest rate of 4-2%, and would finance the first year's vehicles and
equipment, agricultural inputs and studies for the cotton track
rehabilitation component. Onlending terms to HASYMA are expected to be
comparable to those under the IDA Credit. The value of inputs paid by
farmers for the first year of the Project is expected to be passed on to
HASYMA on a loan basis to reinforce working capital during the investment
period and effectiveness of this transfer would be also a condition of
Credit effectiveness (para 7.05). The effectiveness of the CCCE agreement
would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit. Funds resulting
from the sale of equipment and vehicles to farmers would be put into a
reserved account at BTM and serve to finance further development of the
cotton subsector. Funds from the sale of project-funded inputs after the
first year of the Project would be maintained in a separate trust account
by HASYMA and used in part to finance the local cost portion of the cotton
track rehabilitation and maintenance component. Assurances on all these
procedures were obtained at negotiations.
E. Procurement
4.16      Procurement for items to be financed from the IDA Special Fund
Credit would be limited to contributory and Part II countires. Equipment
and vehicles (including the small aircraft) over a value of US$100,000
would be procured with regular IDA funds (US$3.3 million) and Special Fund
credit (US$1.0 million) from the second year of the project via



- 34 -
international competitive bidding. Inputs would be procured from the
second year of the Project with IDA Credit funds (US$4.1 million) and
Special Credit funds (US$3.6 million) under international competitive
bidding. In order to ensure that prices are competitive, orders will be
bulked to the extent possible. In the case of certain items of equipment
intended as complements to existing pools appropriate weighting would be
given to standardization in the bid evaluation. Ferries (about US$
200,000) would be constructed by local suppliers following local shopping
procedures. In the case of insecticides, procurement may exceptionally be
by direct purchase of formulated materials of proven effectiveness where
there is only a single manufacturer. Rehabilitation of rural tracks and
buildings construction (US$ 2.5 million) would be carried out by
contractors selected in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to IDA. International contractors are represented
in Madagascar and are active in many projects. Others not already involved
in the country would be eligible to participate but are not likely to be
interested by these small contracts. Local competitive bidding procedures
would be used for purchases of equipment and supplies for amounts between
US$ 20,000 and US$ 100,000 while prudent shopping would be employed for
purchases under US$ 20,000 (total procurement under US$ 100,000 about
US$ 0.6 million). Under the Project, HASYMA is responsible for
procurement. Its procedures, as established by its Board of Directors, are
in accordance with local laws and regulations and are acceptable to IDA.
Technical assistants financed under the Special Fund credit (US$1.9
million) would be recruited from Special Fund countries according to
Bank/IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. Terms of reference and
conditions of employment would have to be satisfactory to IDA. Invitations
to bid, proposed awards and contracts would be subject to IDA's prior
review for all contracts over US$100,000. Assurances on these procedures
were obtained at negotiations. For those items financed on a parallel
basis by CCCE (about US$ 11.3 million, see para 4.15), procurement would be
in accordance with its guidelines, which normally require procurement of
goods of French origin. Prices of goods so acquired are expected to be
within the range normally obtained under competitive bidding procedures.
F. Disbursements
4.17      It is estimated that funds from the Credit account would be
disbursed over four and a half years. This is faster than experience for
similar projects in the country and region as the Project is a short (four
year) project with the majority of investments made in the first two
years. The Project is also relatively simple and represents a time-slice
of a continuing program. Disbursements will be on the following basis:



- 35 -
Amount Allocated              % of Expenditures
(US$ million)                Foreign  Local
IDA Spec-
IDA       ial Fund
Vehicles & Equipment                 3.3           1.0           100    80
Civil Works                           -            2.5           100    80
Inputs                               4.1           3.6           100    80
Technical Assistance                  -            1.6           100      0
Monitoring & Evaluation               -            0,2           100   100
Training                              -            0.2           100   100
Studies by HASYMA                    0.1           0.2           100   100
Unallocated                          0.4           0.6
7.9           9.9
G. Accounts and Audits
4.18      HASYMA operates a computerized financial and management
accounting system containing adequate internal control and check. This
system, with Project support from a technical assistant specializing in
financial management (para 4.07) is adequate to control and record
expenditures under the Project. HASYMA's accounts are at present subject
to an independent review by an accounting firm. HASYMA proposes to retain
an experienced local firm as auditor of both entity and project accounts,
beginning with the 1982/3 financial year. Assurances were received at
negotiations that HASYMA would: (i) keep separate accounts for the Project;
(ii) have these accounts and the accounts of the company as a whole audited
each year by auditors acceptable to IDA; and (iii) submit these accounts to
IDA no later than six months after the close of the financial year.
H. Project Completion Report
4.19      MPARA and HASYMA would prepare a Project Completion Report no
later than six months after the Project closing date. The Report would
summarize Project performance, evaluate its successes and problems and
underline lessons to be taken into account in the future design and
implementation of similar projects. Assurances on this were obtained at
negotiations.
I. Environment and Health
4.20      The major risk from the Project stems from the environmental
consequence of the use of agro-chemicals. In the past, insecticide
mixtures made up of DDT and organophosphates which have a long residual
effect were commonly used. As cotton pests developed resistance to these



- 36 -
insecticides, the number of sprayings was increased, causing insecticide
residues to build up. However, the substitution of DDT by pyrethrin-based
insecticides in ULV formulation in recent years has decreased the
persistence of toxicity, and thus the environmental impact. The Project
would provide, under the on-going insecticide testing program, the
establishment of a pesticide monitoring program to evaluate the effect on
man and on the environment. Proposals for the program would be submitted
for IDA's approval as part of the monitoring and evaluation program (para
4.10).



- 37 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
5.01      The Project would be implemented by HASYMA under the
supervision of MPARA. HASYMA's zone of action consists of all the cotton
growing areas in the country except for the SAMANGOKY irrigation scheme and
the SODEMO cotton farm (paras 3.11 and 3.13). Input supply and technical
assistance to these two production areas under the Project will be
channelled through HASYMA. FOFIFA will implement the cotton research
program under a contract with HASYMA, acceptable to IDA. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
B. HASYMA4/
Organization and Management
5.02      HASYMA is a societe 'conomique mixed-capital company created in
1979 to take over the functions of the Madagascar subsidiary of the French
cotton producing company "Compagnie Frangaise pour le Developpement des
Fibres Textiles" (CFDT). Government owns 70% of HASYMA's equity and CFDT
the remaining 30%. HASYMA's responsibilities are defined in the Charter
which accompanied its creation and include input supply, extension, the
collection and ginning of seed cotton, and marketing of fiber. The company
also fulfills an important banking function and provides land preparation
services.
5.03      HASYMA is governed by a Board of Directors which includes seven
representatives from Government and three representatives from CFDT.  The
Board appoints the General Manager, subject to approval by MPARA. It meets
regularly twice a year to decide on operational policy matters, to approve
annual work programs and budgets, to review financial statements and
investment proposals, and to hear reports on HASYMA's performance and
operations. Extensive responsibilities for day-to-day operations have been
delegated to the General Manager who relies on Board members to inform the
ministries and agencies of HASYMA's activities. The company has enjoyed
substantial autonomy in its initiatives for development of the cotton
subsector but maintains close relations and frequently consults with the
two Government ministries mainly responsible for its supervision - MPARA on
technical matters and MIC on pricing and marketing.
4/ Financial aspects of HASYMA's structure and operations are discussed in
Chapter VII.



- 38 -
5.05      HASYMA's organization follows a simple line structure (Chart 2).
At headquarters, the company is organized into two functional departments
(Production and Processing) and four support units reporting directly to
the General Manager. The company has two regional offices, in Mahajanga
and Toliara, which provide supervision of the company's activities in their
respective zones. The functiornal departments at headquarters provide
technical support to the regional offices. The responsibility and
authority of each unit are generally well defined and the structure is
well-managed.
5.06      HASYMA employs about 500 staff.  Of these, some 36 work at
headquarters. Staff are generally well qualified, and include eight
graduate agriculturalists, eight qualified accountants, five ginnery
technicians, twelve agricultural technicians, and about 110 extension
agents. Expatriate staff include two agronomists, an accountant
implementing a training program, a ginnery specialist, and a cotton
entomologist conducting trials on insecticides and supervising routine pest
control programs. Staff employment conditions and salary scales are
governed by Madagascar's labor law. However, HASYMA continues to apply
CFDT's personnel policy and has kept employment with the company highly
competitive by providing substantial fringe benefits, and opportunities for
career development. This, together with management's concern for technical
competence, have largely accounted for the company's ability to attract and
retain qualified staff. HASYMA's employees, especially those in the field,
generally belong to one of several unions with affiliations to major
political parties.
Extension
5.07      In addition to providing extension services, HASYMA's extension
staff also organize the supply of farm inputs, land preparation services
and pest control programs, and assist with the preparation of applications
for agricultural credit. The ratio of extension agents to smallholder
farmers is about 1:100. The agricultural technical assistance team (para
5.06) has no line responsibility but assists in drawing up extension
programs, analysing results, training extension workers and monitoring
results. This assistance has been effective and has contributed
significantly to HASYMA's extension performance. Further technical
assistance is provided under the Project (para 4.08) to adapt the extension
service to its growing responsibilities.
Operational Capacity under the Project
5.08      HASYMA has retained much of the professionalism of its CFDT
forerunner and is considered one of the more dynamic and well-managed of
Madagascar's parastatals. Its experience is greater with commercial
activities than with agricultural production, reflecting its origin as a



- 39 -
private marketing organization. However, technical assistance over the
years has enabled the company to respond to the new emphasis on support to
smallholder production. Areas in which HASYMA has used technical
assistance in recent years include: setting up the extension system,
improving ginning techniques, promoting insecticide testing and
application, refining its financial information system, and training
personnel. Further technical assistance under the Project would continue
to strengthen HASYMA's development in these areas.



- 40 -
C. Management of Project Components
Provision of Equipment, Vehicles and Chemical Inputs
5.09      HASYMA would be responsible for the implementation of these
components. Lists of items needed, on which Project costs are based, have
been drawn up by HASYMA in consultation with farmers. HASYMA will prepare
detailed specifications and bidding documents, call for tender, evaluate
tenders and, for those purchases financed by IDA, make recommendations to
IDA for award. After approval, RASYMA would place orders, arrange port
clearance and transport to the Project area and handle the distribution.
The list of equipment, vehicles and chemical inputs would be updated by
HASYMA and requirements submitted for IDA's review as part of the annual
work programs (para 5.14). HASYMA would also be responsible for the
purchase and transport to the Project area of locally available goods.
These are expected to include locally manufactured implements and equipment
either from parastatal manufacturers or from artisans' cooperatives. If
local supplies prove to be competitive, consideration would be given to
signing supply contracts providing for fabrication to be done locally using
raw materials to be imported by HASYMA. Distribution of inputs on the
SAMANGOKY and SODEMO irrigation schemes would be handled by these
companies, as at present.
5.10      Equipment and vehicles provided to Project beneficiaries would be
sold for cash or for credit under the BTM credit scheme (para. 3.15).
Prices would be fixed to cover the full cost including internal transport
and applicable overheads. Repayments by farmers of principle and interest
at prevailing rates less a service fee would be allocated to a special
reserved fund ("fonds affectAF) at BTM for the financing of development
actions in the subsector. During the Project implementation period it is
expected that farmers would make significant demands on the fund to finance
land development costs, chiefly on the large farms. Arrangements for the
management of this fund would be made between BTM, HASYMA and MPARA in an
agreement, which would provide for annual presentation of proposals for use
of the funds for IDA approval. BTM would account separately for these
funds in its annual accounts and BTM auditors would report separately on
the accounts of the fund. BTM already has experience of managing similar
funds. Elements for a draft agreement were discussed at negotiations and
signature of an agreement acceptable to IDA would be a condition of
effectiveness. For sale of inputs, farmers would pay the full cost,
including internal transport and storage costs, the cost of storage losses,
operating costs, administrative overhead and financial charges on the
delivered value at the prevailing interest rate (currently 15% per annum)
for the period between input delivery and seed cotton delivery. Assurances



- 41 -
to this effect were obtained at negotiations. As outlined in Chapter IV
(para 4.15), HASYMA would retain the value of CCCE financing of inputs in
the first year of the Project on a loan basis to reinforce its working
capital. The value of Project financing of inputs in subsequent years
would be retained by HASYMA in a separate account on trust for MPARA to
finance the rehabilitation and maintenance of cotton access roads.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. As part of the
annual work program process, HASYMA would prepare a forecast each year of
the foreign exchange allocation required from Government. Chapter VII
(para 7.10) shows the likely foreign exchange flows to and from the cotton
subsector in future years and the likely demands on Government by HASYMA.
Assurances were received at negotiations that Government would make
available to HASYMA foreign exchange in line with the agreed annual work
program.
5.11      Equipment requirements will be established in relation to
programs for cotton cropping on existing lands and for opening up new
lands. In the case of smallholders, extensions are unlikely to raise land
issues (para 3.05). In the case of the large farmers, particularly those
of non-Malagasy extraction, it will be necessary for HASYMA to act as an
intermediary in receiving land grants and subsequently to lease the lands
on long lease to farmers.
Technical Assistance and Consultant Services
5.12      HASYMA would be responsible for the recruitment of technical
assistants (para 4.07). Job descriptions and proposals for recruitment
were agreed at negotiations.  The cotton research program (para 4.06) would
be implemented by FOFIFA with consultant support for the design and
monitoring of programs.
Rehabilitation of Rural Roads
5.13      HASYMA would implement this component with the technical support
of MTP and the cotton tracks would be included in the economic network of
roads and tracks of national priority. HASYMA would be responsible for (i)
preparation through consultants of bidding documents for rehabilitation
works in the north and the building of minor structures in the south; (ii)
supervision with MTP and consultant assistance of the execution of works;
(iii) maintenance of tracks through two maintenance brigades provided with
simple equipment, with technical assistance for training and supervision;
and (iv) maintaining liaison with MTP. MTP would be responsible for (i)



- 42 -
technical assistance in defining programs preparing bidding documents and
evaluating bids; (ii)technical support to HASYMA in supervision; and (iii)
carrying out if its programs permit any major maintenance works beyond the
capacity of the HASYMA brigades. In order to economize on direct payment
in foreign exchange a weighting would be given to local currency content of
bids at evaluation. In certain areas of the north farmers have the
equipment necessary to maintain tracks following rehabilitation and will be
responsible for routine maintenance. For other areas where farmers do not
have the capacity HASYMA in consultation with MTP will remain responsible
for maintenance during and after the project period.
D. Annual Work Programs and Reports
5.14      Annual work programs would be prepared by HASYMA.  The main
objectives of these programs would be: (i) to facilitate a full annual
review of Project progress by both Government and IDA; (ii) to make
adjustments possible as experience is gained; and (iii) to serve as a
planning, implementation and monitoring tool. HASYMA's programs would be
submitted to HASYMA's Board and MPARA for discussion and review. As
programs will cover not only the calendar and fiscal year which corresponds
to a complete harvest period but also the cropping year which begins in
October, annual work programs will be submitted early (April 15), so that
the program for the forthcoming cropping year can be established. However,
the finalization of the whole program will take place once the Government
budget is approved in December. Assurances were therefore received at
negotiations that the annual work programs would be submitted to IDA for
its review and comments no later than April 15 of the year preceding the
year of the program. Final programs agreed by Government and IDA would be
prepared and submitted promptly after finalization but in any case no later
than December 31 preceding the year covered by the programs. IDA's
approval of the annual work programs would be a condition of disbursement
for the activities to be undertaken during that year. The approval by IDA
of the finalized programs covering calendar 1984 would be a condition of
effectiveness.
5.15      The annual work program would include a statement, by project
component, of the specific objectives to be accomplished during the coming
year, a description of the resources (human, financial and physical)
available or to be acquired to achieve those objectives, a description of
how the objectives would be achieved and an annual budget presenting all
these elements in financial terms. Programs would include a discussion of
achievements over recent periods and draw links between past performance
and proposals for the future. In addition the program should include the
following specific items, where relevant:



- 43 -
(i)  the proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on civil works,
vehicle and equipment) for all Project components, including
a list by farmer of equipment requirements and details by
farmer of the proposed program;
(ii)  the proposed expenditures on salaries, materials, fuel,
repairs and maintenance;
(iii) proposals for purchase of inputs;
(iv)  a list of the personnel whose salaries would be financed
under the Project, including technical assistants;
(v)  detailed financial projections for the year under
consideration including an estimate of the financing
requirements from each source, a calendarised projection of
the net funds required from the Government investment
budget, a forecast of the foreign exchange allocation
required and a list of expenditures eligible for
reimbursement by IDA and proposed allocation of funds by
categories;
(vi)  seed cotton and fiber pricing proposals,
(vii)  proposed terms of reference for new staff or any changes in
agreed terms of reference;
(viii) procurement proposals;
(ix)  a list of proposed short-term consultancies including
justification and proposed method of procurement;
(x)  a list of new areas to be cultivated and confirmation that
these areas have been made available to farmers;
(xi)  detailed proposals for the road component and proposed
disbursements from the trust fund (para 5.14); and
(xii) the proposed monitoring and evaluation work program (para
4.10).
5.16      Reports.  HASYMA would prepare semi-annual reports on the
progress of the Project. Assurances to this effect were received at
negotiations.



- 44 -
VI. TECHNICAL ASPECTS
A. Yield Constraints
6.01      With good management under the characteristic soil and climatic
conditions of the different production zones, potential yields of seed
cotton range from about 1.6 tons/ha in the rainfed areas to over 3.0
tons/ha under the flood-recession system and under irrigation. Actual
yields obtained are substantially less; in the past six years, they have
averaged 0.96 and 2.28 tons/ha, respectively. There is, therefore, still
substantial scope for yield increase. Clearly for rainfed areas, the level
and distribution of rainfall are vital factors. Average precipitation in
rainfed cotton producing zones exceeds 700 mm annually, the level which is
considered adequate for cotton production, and is concentrated in a well
defined rainy season. Inter-annual variations around this level do not
present an undue risk to cotton production: ten year series show on average
a reduction in yields that may be attritutable to rainfall definite once
every five years. This has been reflected in the economic analysis (para
8.04).  The other main physical and technical factors inhibiting yields are
the following: (i) lack of timely access to land preparation facilities;
(ii) poor application of recommended crop husbandry practices (iii)
inadequate and unbalanced fertilizer applications; (iv) inadequate pest
control programs; and (v) communications. The last point is dealt with in
Chapter II (para 2.22); the other points are discussed below.
Land Preparation
6.02      For both the flood-recession system of the north and the rainfed
system of the south, timing and speed of crop husbandry operations are
critical. It has been estimated that every month's delay in planting past
April 15 in the north, on the flood-recession system, results in a drop in
yield of 0.5-1.0 ton/ha and in the south past December 15, on the rainfed
system, in a loss of 0.4-0.7 ton/ha. In the "baibohos" (flood plains), the
land has to be ploughed, harrowed, furrowed and planted in the short space
of time between the withdrawal of the flood waters and the drying-up of the
soil profile. When these operations are delayed, the germination rate
drops significantly, big gaps occur in the field and the low plant density
results in low yields. Harvest is also delayed and may have to be
completed at the onset of the rainy season, resulting in quality losses.
Under the rainfed system, the rainy season is so short that land
preparation has to be completed immediately after the first rains so that
the farmer can derive benefits from the early planting. Early land
preparation is already an important extension theme on which HASYMA's
extension workers put particular emphasis. Many farmers use trained
bullocks for land preparation, as animal traction is a strong tradition in
the south but there is a shortage of ox-ploughs and other implements. irn
addition, in some rainfed areas other crops have also to be planted at the



- 45 -
onset of the rainy season, which creates a peak demand for the available ox
traction that some farmers have only been able to meet by using tractor
services. Under the Project the main emphasis is on extending the use of
animal traction whenever possible.
Crop Husbandry
6.03      Simply by the strict application of recommended techniques
farmers could realize appreciably higher yields (approaching potential
yields). Yet there has been no improvement in the husbandry of smallholder
cotton in recent years as low producer prices made the extra effort,
particularly in labor and inputs, uneconomic. Thus, plant spacing was
usually too wide, resulting in less than optimum plant spacing of 60,000
plants/ha, insufficient fertilizer was applied, thinning to two plants per
hole was not carried out, weeding was neglected and insecticide spraying
was not systematic. The producer price of seed cotton has since been
substantially increased (para 2.17 ff). The economic incentive is
therefore now present for smallholders to make appropriate efforts to
obtain higher yields. Additional expenses would be in hired labor for
weeding and picking and in the application of higher levels of fertilizers
and insecticides. The large cotton planters have generally contrived to
maintain a high level of husbandry but would benefit from using more
effective herbicides.
6.04      The extension of recommended husbandry techniques is carried out
by HASYMA's extension workers on a theme by theme basis (para 5.07). Thus,
the information that has to be relayed by the extension worker to the
farmer and be understood by him is very simple and clear. However, some
extension workers still require further training as has been observed from
the quality of their demonstration plots. The lack of adequate means of
transportation has also been a handicap to the extension workers as a lot
of their time is spent travelling from farm to farm. Monitoring of
extension staff by supervisors has also been hindered by the lack of
vehicles.
Fertilizer Applications
6.05      Cotton production is highly demanding in chemical inputs, whether
under an intensive or extensive system of production. HASYMA is entrusted
with the role of providing seeds, fertilizers and insecticides to cotton
producers, including parastatals, and has successfully fulfilled that
role. Past research results obtained by IRCT have indicated that optimum
cotton yields can only be obtained and sustained with the application of
fertilizers. On the "baibohos" soils of the north-west, high levels of
nitrogen and potassium are required and the recommended dosages per ha are
300 kg of urea and 200 kg of potassium sulphate, together with about 10 kg
of a soluble boron. On the Mangoky irrigation scheme, the recommended dose



46 -
is just 200 kg of urea. On the rainfed soils of the south, the
recommendations are: 100 kg of urea, 150 kg ammonium phosphate and 100 kg
potassium sulphate. In this area yield potential is comparatively low (1.6
tons/ha) and there is a higher risk of crop failure due to the low and
erratic rainfall pattern. Nonetheless irn the higher-potential parts of
this area, which benefit from comparatively higher, more stable rainfall
patterns, there is scope for achieving higher yields than the 0.9 tons/ha
presently obtained. Actual applications by farmers have averaged, for the
large planters, 300 kg of urea and 190 kg of potassium sulphate per ha,
against dressings of 50 kg of urea, 7 kg potassium sulphate and 15 kg
ammonium phosphate by smallholders. There is, therefore, scope for
smallholders to increase their yields through higher fertilizer
applications, particularly in northern areas with high yield potentials.
In rainfed areas and on poorly-operated irrigation systems with low
potentials, increases in fertilizer applications would have to be limited.
The Project is aimed at promoting increased fertilizer use, especially of
nitrogen and phosphate, in high potential parts of the area.
Pest Control
6.06      In Madagascar, numerous insect pests feeding both on leaves and
bolls represent a serious problem. In fact, without an intensive and
effective pest control program based on the use of chemical insecticides,
cotton production would not be possible. These insect pests include
bollworms such as Heliothis armigera (American bollworm), and Earias spp.
(spiny bollworm), defoliators such as Spodoptera littoralis (Prodenia) and
aphids (Aphis gossypii).  In recent years Spodoptera has been the major
pest.  In the past, mixtures of DDT and organophosphate were used but DDT
has been replaced by pyrethrin-based insecticides which are effective,
except against aphids which have to be controlled by organophosphate
insecticides. At present, it is recommended to carry out 5 sprayings of
pyrethrin-based insecticides alternated with 5 sprayings of monocrotophos.
Differences in insecticide levels used by large planters and smallholders
are smaller than is the case for fertilizers because yields would be
drastically reduced if pest control programs are not fully implemented.
Thus, large farms use an average of 34 kg insecticides per hectare per year
against 28 kg for smallholders. The present pest control program, relying
on these multiple applications of broad spectrum pecticides, is unlikely to
remain effective for long, as pests develop resistance. It is therefore
essential to develop an improved technical package, which would probably be
based on a soil-applied systemic material against leaf sucking insects. It
is also necessary to link spray applications to economic pest threshold
levels. For this purpose pest programs will form a vital part of the
research and trials component under the Project (para 4.06) and incidence
and economic impact of program will be a key focus of the monitoring and
evaluation effort (para 4.10). There is in addition scope for improving
the smallholder pest control program by increasing the use of ULV hand



- 47 -
sprayers to apply pyrethrin-based insecticides in ULV hand sprayers with
positive effect on yield and costs.
Research
6.07      From 1952 to 1974, cotton research in Madagascar, conducted by
IRCT, identified cotton production techniques appropriate to the different
zones, which are still used today. Since FOFIFA assumed responsibility for
researclh in 1974, little effective research has been carried out, except by
HASYMA under its pre-production trials program, which concentrates mainly
on the testing of new insecticides. The need for a revived research
program is now being felt. In particular, new varieties need to be
identified for the different environments that have now come into cotton
cultivation. At present, there are only two commercial varieties, and a
single variety - Acala - is being grown in several completely different
environments, ranging from saline, irrigated soils to neutral, unirrigated
soils. There is also a real need for a more drought-tolerant variety than
the present variety (Stoneville) grown in the rainfed areas. Fertilizer
recommendations need to be more specific for each production zone and need
to be evaluated with greater attention to economic considerations, notably
for the low-rainfall southern zones, with the establishment of response
curves under farmer conditions. Trace element requirements need to be
reviewed. Screening of insecticides and herbicides should be carried out
on a systematic basis and the lag time between research and general
introduction should be reduced. In the case of the pyrethrin-based
insecticides, it took three years before the results were translated into
practice. To meet these needs a program of adaptive research and
pre-production trials would be set up as described in Chapter IV (para
4.06).
B. Extension of Areas
6.08      In addition to increasing yields on existing areas, Project
components are aimed at increasing the area under cotton. In the northern
zone, there are still vast areas of "baiboho" soils suitable for cotton
production.  Many of these lands form part of former land areas granted to
expatriate planters which have since been returned to the state. Others
are state lands that have remained undeveloped. In addition, there is
still scope for extending cropping areas by another 15 to 20%, or about
another 1000-2000 ha on existing large farms. These lands possess high
potential soils, capable of producing 2.5 tons/ha under intensive
husbandry. It is unlikely that Government will be investing in new
irrigation schemes in the near future, and development of irrigated cotton
production will be limited to the ongoing Mangoky Project and to efforts to
boost output on existing schemes. Prospects for expansion of rainfed areas
are, however, considerable around Toliara right up to Ihosy. The major
constraint is poor road access, which will be addressed under the Project
(para 4.06).



- 48 -
C. Farm Models
6.09      Two farm models have been designed, representing the typical
large farm of the flood-recession system of the north (Model I) and the
typical smallholder farm of the south (Model II). The average large farm
is assumed to occupy 170 ha of cotton reflecting the size distribution of
these farms. Non cotton activities have not been considered for these
large farms as they have proved unprofitable and have been abandoned. The
average area under cotton on the large farm would increase under the
Project, to about 240 ha, or a total increase of 3000 ha of cotton. The
smallholder farm is assumed to cover 2 ha, of which 0.9 ha is occupied by
cotton, 0.4 ha by maize, 0.3 ha by cassava and 0.4 ha by butter beans. The
non-cotton activities are assumed to remain unchanged under the Project as
maize and cassava are mainly grown for on-farm consumption. The
smallholder farm area would increase from 2.0 ha to 2.5 ha under the
Project, due to an increase of 0.5 ha in the area under cotton. Total
increase in smallholder rainfed cotton area will be 3100 ha. For irrigated
areas, although potential yields are higher, actual yields given the state
of irrigation networks and management are no higher than in rainfed areas
and are unlikely to increase much more rapidly than those in rainfed
areas. Therefore, no distinction has been made between irrigated and
rainfed areas in the farm model. However, on irrigated areas, cotton will
displace other crops on about 2,000 ha. These crops will be shifted from
the irrigated to rainfed areas, as in previous years when cotton production
was a more important activity. The average smallholder family size is
assumed to be composed of six persons.
Yields and Production
6.10      Present average yields of seed cotton of 2.17 tons/ha for the
large farms and 0.8 tons/ha for the small farms are expected to increase to
2.45 tons/ha and 1.2 tons/ha, respectively, by year 5 of the Project.
These projections are realistic considering average past yields of 2.4
tons/ha for the large farms, and smallholder yields which reached an
average of 1.6 tons/ha in 1976. The increased yields would arise from such
measures as improved access to equipment, improved and earlier land
preparation, improved seeds, fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides, the
adoption of improved cultural techniques such as optimum planting dates and
plant densities, fertilizer application, weeding and pest control, and
better communications. By contrast, it is clear that without the Project
the tight foreign exchange situation and deteriorating transport situation
would result in further yield and production declines. Net revenue from
cotton activities for the smallholder farm will increase from FMG 98,000
($260) to FMG 187,000 ($500) in year 5 of the Project. For the large farm,
the increase will be from FMG 35.8 million ($95,000) to FMG 62.1 million
($166,000) over the same period. The incremental seed cotton production of
the Project is expected to reach 19,000 tons, equivalent to 7,350 tons of
fiber, in year 5 of the Project.



- 49 -
Labor
6.11      The Project would generate employment on both large farms and
smallholdings. On large farms, extra labor would be required, mainly for
the extensions. All agricultural operations would require labor but the
greatest demand would be in thinning, weeding and picking. It is estimated
that an extra 3000 laborers would be required throughout the year for the
3000 ha of extension. For the smallholdings, both intensification and
extension of production would result in extra labor demand. The average
small farm would require an extra 26 man-days of family labor per ha per
year by the end of the Project; in addition, hired labor would be required
for cotton-picking, equivalent to about 16 man-days per ha per year.



- 50 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. HASYMA
Financial Performance to Date
7.01      HASYMA as a "mixed capital" company operates under commercial law
and is subject to company taxation. However, 70% of the share capital is
held by the state and the role of the company is fixed in the charter which
accompanied its creation. The company operates in a controlled price
regime under which the major input (seed cotton) and output (fiber) prices
are determined annually by Government. The mechanism for setting prices is
described in Chapter II (para 2.05). In recent years, prices have never
been set at a level adequate to allow HASYMA to make a profit on its cotton
marketing and processing activites, and since 1979/80 HASYMA has incurred
very sizable losses on these activities.  It was only through profits on
input supply that HASYMA managed to break even in the period 1980/82. In
1982/83, its margins further eroded, the company plunged into deficit.
7.02      HASYMA's financial performance since nationalization has thus
been poor. Annual results (see Table 11) have evolved as follows:
---------- FMG millions ---------
Cotton Process-   Net
Year            Turnover  ing & Marketing Profit/[Loss]
1978/79           5667.9          71,1          224.1
1979/80           5260.1         [40.1]          41.3
1980/81           4933.2         [56.8;           6.0
1981/82           5843.3        [251.9]           7.3
1982/83           6074.6           n.a.        [645.8]
Official prices have been the major cause of this poor performance, as both
input and output prices have been low in relation to import parity levels
and the spread between them was inadequate to cover HASYMA's costs. The
situation was aggravated by (i) turnover that slumped from 1979 levels as
low producer prices depressed seed cotton production; (ii) rapidly rising
transport costs; and (iii) a sharp increase in interest charges, as HASYMA
contracted short term debt, to supplement working capital, and medium term
debt, to finance expansion of ginning capacity. The company's increased
reliance on, and reduced ability to service, its debt is shown by the
decline in debt service coverage from 3.4 times in 1978/79 to 1.6 times in
1981/82.



- 51 -
7.03      A review of HASYMA's balance sheet (see Table 10) shows the
impact of this mediocre financial performance:
------------------- FMG millions ------------------
1982t83
(After Rehab
1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 -ilitation)
Fixed Assets              455.0   573.1   586.7  1238.4  2179.0   2179.0
Net Current Assets        1495.9  1270.9  1243.4  2133.9  1130.0   1630.0
1950.9  1844.0  1830.1  3372.3  3309.0   3809.0
Financed By
Equity                   1305.2  1346.5  1353.5  1413.5   753.0   1453.0
Long & Medium Term Debt  645.7   497.5   477.6  1958.8  2556.0   2356.0
1950.9  1844.0  1830.1  3372.2  3309.0   3809.0
7.04      Poor results from 1978 on left HASYMA with no resources to
finance the ginnery expansion begun in 1981, and this development has been
undertaken entirely on loan finance. At the same time the economic crisis
that hit Madagascar in 1981 led to soaring receivables and a consequent
working capital requirement that HASYMA was unable to meet from internally
generated funds; the proportion of working capital provided from equity
fell from 57% in 1978/79 to only 8% in 1981/82, with the balance coming
from long and medium term borrowings. As a result of this two-fold
reliance on outside borrowings, the debt:equity ratio slipped from 3:7 in
1979/80 to 6:4 in 1981/82. The massive losses projected for 1982/83
further threatened HASYMA's financial base. Borrowings to complete the
ginnery expansion would have brought the debt:equity ratio to 8:2, and
HASYMA's working capital would have been reduced by losses to dangerously
low levels. However, during the year, Government agreed a rehabilitation
of the company and injected FMG 500 million in new capital. At the same
time CFDT agreed to the conversion to share capital of FMG 200 million in
debt to itself. This had the effect of restoring the debt:equity ratio to
reasonable proportions (6:4) and improving HASYMA's working capital and
liquidity situation.
Future Performance
7.05      In 1983 expanding operations and a further projected loss put a
severe strain on HASYMA's working capital, and HASYMA had recourse to short
term borrowings at high cost. The current ratio slipped dangerously and
Government agreed to restore the situation by a further injection of funds,
adequate to bring the current ratio to 2.0, by lending local currency
proceeds of CCCE financing of inputs (para 4.15) to HASYMA as a long term
loan. The transfer of these funds, estimated at about FMG 1.4 billion,
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. For the future the key
determinants of HASYMA's financial viability are input and output prices.
Present prices for both seed cotton and fiber are set at levels that are



- 52 -
attractive to producers and would allow HASYMA an adequate margin at
projected levels of turnover and provided that interest charges are not
excessive. To tie future prices to border prices would ensure that
internal prices reflect external prices and provide both appropriate
rewards and stimuli for efficiency.  In addition projections show that
cotton production is likely to remain profitable for producers and for
HASYMA at these price levels for the foreseeable future. Assurances were
therefore obtained at negotiations that an annual pricing proposal will be
presented to IDA for discussion as part of the annual work program process
(para 5.14), and that resulting prices set by Government will be maintained
at least at the present level (about 90%) in relation to the border price.
Proposed price levels for 1984 would be reviewed as part of the process of
review of the Annual Work Program for 1984, and it is likely that these
prices will be announced in early December 1983.
7.06      Financial projections for HASYMA based on prices 90% of border
prices (Table 11) show the following profits and cash flow, after allowing
for interest and amortization on loans contracted for Project investments
(para 4.15):
        --------- FMG million ---------------
Net Operat-   Interest    Capital        Net Cash
ing Profit    Charges    Repayments        Flow 1/
1983/84           214.4         174.0        343.0         147.4
1984/85           336.2        157.0         178.0         663.4
1985/86          1062.7         290.0        373.0         999.3
1986/87          1525.7         252.0        373.0        1486.2
1987/88          1963.0         213.0        373.0        1936.3
1/ After adding back depreciation and Government grants,
but before any applicable profits taxation or other
transfers to Government.
It is clear from the projections that at the assumed price levels HASYMA
can realise a cash flow after capital and interest repayments adequate to
maintain the value of working capital and replace fixed assets. Projected
profit levels will also provide a high rate of return on capital employed,
reaching 26% by 1987/88. Uncertainties and risks attached to the
projections are discussed in detail in Chapter VIII (para 8.03).
7.07      In order to ensure that profits are retained within HASYMA to
reinforce its equity base, assurances were obtained at negotiations that no
distribution of profits will be made while the debt:equity ratio remains
greater than 70:30, and will not, during the period of amortisation of
Project loans, exceed 25% of profits available for distribution realised in
any one financial year.



- 53 -
B. Government
7.08      Financial Impact of Project.  Actual cash flows to and from
Government and its holding in HASYMA in recent years are estimated as
follows:
-----------FMG million---------
1980     1981      1982      1983
Net Revenues of CSPC                         [129.7]  [217.4]    n.a.       -
HASYMA Net Profits (70%)                        4.2       5.0   [250.9]  28.0
HASYMA Profits Tax                             32.3      36.8        -      -
Contribution to HASYMA Capital                   -         -    [500.0]    -
Net Outflow                                   [93.2]  [175.61  [780.9]  28.0
The net outflow from Government and its holding in HASYMA is the result of
Government pricing policy which has effectively taxed both producers and
HASYMA in order to subsidize the textile industry. The extent of this
subsidy, based on the difference between financial import parity prices and
effective prices, was as much as FMG 2.6 billion ($6.8 million) in 1980.
The subsidy, which has been reflected in consistently high profits for the
major textile firms, has since declined as Government boosted both seed
cotton and fiber prices. If seed cotton and fiber prices are maintained at
their present relation to import parity levels, Government cash flow in
relation to both Project and subsector, taking into account the increase in
Government's equity in HASYMA, would remain positive until 1993, when a
small annual deficit would occur until 1998. Cash flow would resume its
healthy positive direction thereafter (see Table 12).  Thus, Government
contribution to the Project would be covered entirely through cost recovery
and capture of benefits within public sector institutions.
7.09      Foreign Exchange Flows for the Subsector.  Cotton production,
with its reliance on imported inputs and equipment, is a heavy user of
foreign exchange. Project support is designed in part to relieve the
pressure on Madagascar's presently extremely scarce foreign exchange
resources for a period while the economy recovers and improved foreign
exchange management procedures are introduced (para 2.15). However, the
subsector will require a steady flow of foreign exchange from Government
estimated as follows (1983 values):
FMG          $
Million    Million
1984                     620        1.30
1985                     950        2.02
1986                    2000        4.24
1987                    2950        6.20
1988                    2950        6.20
1989 on                 3900        8.20



- 54 -
To offset against these requirements are the very considerable sums of
foreign exchange saved by substituting for imports. By 1988 total seed
cotton production is projected to reach 45,200 tons, worth FMG 13,870
million ($29.2 million) at border prices.  The subsector is thus a very
substantial net saver of foreign exchange.
C. Farmers
7.10      Large Farms.  Returns to large farms under the Project are likely
to be very favorable. In a recent sale of equity in a large cotton farm,
the per hectare price of land including installations and equipment was
about FMG 830,000 ($1,750). The farm model (Table 6) shows that at full
development gross margins per hectare should reach over FMG
300,000/($630). After allowing for management and overhead charges of FMG
100,000/ha, returns to capital employed are likely to be of the order of
20%-25%, well above the cost of borrowing in Madagascar.
7.11      Smallholders.  On the basis of the farm models (Table 7), returns
to family labor are likely to reach FMG 1,700 ($3.60) per day at full
development for a family of 6. This is approximately three times the
average day wage in rural areas of Madagascar and therefore represents an
attractive return. The profile of smallholder beneficiaries of the Project
is discussed in Chapter VIII (para 8.05). The benefit:cost ratio is
expected to remain roughly constant at 3:2, so that the risk in expanding
production is not unusual.



- 55 -
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      Benefits resulting from Project investments would consist of
increased production of seed cotton. Madagascar is a competitive producer
of cotton fiber (witness the high ERR, para 8.03). Project production
increases will be sold to the domestic textile industry and substitute for
present fiber imports, which will reduce to under 3000 tons by 1988 (para
2.10). Some incremental production will subsequently be exported as
manufactured cloth, in line with Government's policy of reducing raw
material imports and exploiting the foreign exchange earning potential of
present installed manufacturing capacity (para 2.10). At full development
(1988) annual incremental production would be 19,000 tons of seed cotton,
worth about US$ 10.0 million at the farmgate equivalent import parity
price. In addition project investments would enable Madagascar to maintain
part of present production that would not be produced without the project.
This production is estimated at 1,600 tons of seed cotton at full
development, worth about US$ 0.9 million. Total Project benefits would
thus reach 17,200 tons of seed cotton, worth about US$ 10.9 million, by
1987. Some additional benefits which would result from Project investments
are difficult to quantify. Investments in track rehabilitation would
promote the general development of regions at present isolated. Research
and development expenditures and investments in studies in the cotton
subsector would eventually result in higher productivity and new productive
potential. Investments in training courses and study tours would improve
dissemination of new cultivation techniques. Moreover, long term benefits
would result from funds spent on project preparation in the agriculture
sector.
8.02      For the purpose of the analysis, foreign exchange was shadow
priced at FMG 600 = US$1 (prevailing rate FMG 475 = US$1). Project
benefits were estimated on the basis of the farm model estimates of
increased production from improved yields on existing areas and from
extensions under the Project. On certain irrigated areas where there is at
present some subsistence cultivation of maize, only half of the production
of these areas was counted as a Project benefit. For the calculation of
that part of present production that would have been forfeited in the
without-Project situation due to lack of agricultural equipment, a simple
5% annual reduction in large farm production was assumed up to a maximum
reduction of 25%. One-third of the without-Project losses of production
has been counted as a Project benefit attributable to equipment
replacement, in line with the proportion of equipment depreciation and
operating cost to total production cost. Project benefits were valued at
import parity prices as Madagascar is an importer of cotton. On the cost
side, costs of the development of new areas, which will be financed by
farmers, have been included. Provision has been made for replacement of
plant, vehicles and equipment over the five years commencing five years
after initial purchase.  Costs of technical assistance to HASYMA have been



- 56 -
included, of monitoring and evaluation, research and development, and
studies excluded. Costs of operating additional equipment and of labor
have been included; incremental family labor costs were estimated on the
basis of farm budgets and valued at prevailing rates for day labor in the
area. Costs for cotton tracks have been valued on the basis of the cost
estimates. The special contingency of 60% on the northern track
rehabilitation component was treated as follows: 30% was added to the base
cost for the purpose of calculating economic costs, and a further 30% was
included for the sensitivity analysis (para 8.05).
8.03      The rate of return of the Project was estimated for the three
major production systems, and returns to present areas through
intensification and to extensions were estimated separately. The rate of
return was also estimated over both 10 years and over 20 years to reflect
the short term nature of some Project support (e.g. input supply) and the
long term nature of others (e.g. extension of cultivated area). On this
basis the rates of return calculated for the Project were as follows:
ERR %
10 Years   20 Years
Whole Project                                   27         30
Flood recession - intensification               14          17
- extension                   14          18
Irrigated                                       23         29
Rainfed          - intensification       over  62   over 127
- extension                   83          86
The high overall rate of return to the whole Project (30% on a 20 year
Project life) is explained by the comparative advantage that Madagascar
enjoys in cotton production.  This advantage is maximized in the present
Project as there is a substantial rehabilitation element, and land is also
abundantly available for increases in cultivated areas. The rate of return
to the track rehabilitation and maintenance component was calculated
seperately over a 10 year period at over 100% with individual tracks and
groups of tracks attracting rates between about 30% and over 200%.
Risk and Sensitivity
8.04      The Project does not carry unusual risk.  The most likely risks
associated with the Project are a lower than anticipated rate of adoption;
climatic risks from uncertain rainfall patterns in the south; insect pest
risks; and availability of foreign exchange for import of inputs from year
2 and for replacement of equipment in future years and the risk of cost
overruns on new alignments on the tracks rehabilitation component. The



- 57 -
rate of adoption used has been conservatively estimated but is sensitive to
the producer price of cotton; if Government fails to maintain the present
incentive level of producer price, production would not maintain the
anticipated rate of increase. However, Government has indicated its
commitment to maintaining adequate producer prices and is reinforcing its
analytic capability in order to be able to set prices accurately and
quickly. On climatic risks, yield series in rainfed areas show fairly
stable yields with periodic declines corresponding to drier than average
years. The normal incidence of these drier than average years has been
taken into account in computing the average expected yield. Clearly,
however, there is a moderate risk both to average yields and to adoption
rates. On insect pest risks, target yields on the flood recession areas
will only be attainable if a better technical package can be developed
(para 6.06). On foreign exchange, Government is considering improvements
in allocation mechanisms that would allow foreign exchange to be matched
with priority needs, such as those of the cotton subsector. However,
availability of foreign exchange will depend on improvements in the overall
economic situation. Issues of pricing and foreign exchange allocation are
at the forefront of the ongoing dialogue between IDA and Government and
will be kept under constant review.
8.05      With these risks in mind, the rate of return was tested for
sensitivity: (i) if adoption were slower than anticipated by two years
(consistent with a lag in raising the producer prices), the rate of return
might drop to 9%; (ii) the risk from greater than normal incidence of dry
years or from drought has been evaluated by assuming that incremental
production in every fourth year, starting in year 1 is only half of
projected production. The rate of return to rainfed components from this
analysis was still 52%. If in addition average benefits were 20% lower the
rate of return to these components would fall to a still satisfactory 26%;
and (iii) if insect pest risks cannot be contained, benefits might drop by
up to 10%, and the overall rate of return of the Project might be no more
than 17%. If benefits went down 20% and costs down 10% (consistent with a
foreign exchange shortage) the rate of return might drop to 15%; (iv) if
the costs of the track component in the north increased by another 30%
(para 8.02) over estimated base costs the overall rate of return would drop
by nine percentage points. Other risks are evaluated in the sensitivity
analysis shown as Table 13.
Target Population
8.06      Project beneficiaries fall into two broad categories.  This is a
production oriented project and over two-thirds of investments are directed
toward the efficient large farms. Project benefits will also accrue to the
rural population around these farms through employment and an enhanced rate
of economic activity in the area. The project will also benefit 20,000
smallholder families engaged in the production of cotton.   Smallholders



- 58 -
are characterized by slim resources and low incomes. While not among the
poorest, inasmuch as they have holdings of average size around 2 hectares
and are among the more enterprising of farmers, average per capita incomes
are only of the order of FMG 25,000 ($53) annually. The incomes of this
group are expected to rise to around FMG 36,000 ($76) per capita annually.
IX. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Prior to negotiations, Government presented a proposal for a
coordination mechanism for the cotton/textile subsector (para 2.20).
9.02      Assurances were received at negotiations on:
(a)  research program to be presented for IDA approval (para
4.06);
(b)  technical assistance proposals to be presented for IDA
approval (para 4.07);
(c)  training coordinator to be designated (para 4.08);
(d)  proposals for monitoring and evaluation to be submitted for
IDA's review and approval by June 30, 1984 and finalized by
September 30, 1984, and the unit's work program would be
included in the annual work program (para 4.10);
(e)  selection procedures for consultants (para 4.11)
(f)  accounting, audit, disbursement and procurement arrangements
(paras 4.15-4.18);
(g)  MPARA and HASYMA would prepare a Project Completion Report
no later than six months after the Project closing date
(para 4.19);
(h)  provision of foreign exchange (para 5.10);
(i)  cost recovery arrangements for inputs (para 5.10);
(j)  arrangements for the road works trust fund (para 5.13);
(k)  annual work programs be submitted to IDA for its review and
comments no later than April 15 of the year preceding the
year of the program, and for their approval no later than
December 31 preceding the year covered by the programs (para
5.14).



- 59 -
(1) HASYMA to prepare six-monthly reports on Project
implementation (para 5.16);
(m)  producer and fiber pricing proposals to be discussed with
IDA (para 7.05); and
(n)  financial provisions on distribution of profits (para 7.07).
9.03      Conditions of Credit effectiveness should be:
(a) Government would confirm that a coordination mechanism for
the cotton/textile subsector acceptable to IDA had been
established (para 2.20);
(b) effectiveness of the reinforcement of HASYMA's working
capital, of the CCCE loan and of the IDA Special Fund Credit
Agreement (para 4.15);
(c)  signature of onlending agreement between Government and
HASYMA (para 4.15);
(d) signature of an agreement between BTM, HASYMA and MPARA on
administration of the reserved fund (para 5.10);
(f)  approval of first year's annual work program (para 5.15).
9.04      A condition of disbursement would be:
(a) approval of HASYMA annual work programs (para 5.15).
9.05      Items discussed at negotiations included:
-    Detailed training program (4.08)
-    BTM reserved fund (5.10)
-    Detailed arrangements for land lease (5.11)
-    Job description and detailed proposals for recruitment of
consultants (5.12).
9.06      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 7.5 million (US$7.9 million), and for an
IDA Special Fund Credit of SDR 8.8 million (US$9.3 million).



- 60 -
TABLE 1
MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Component b, Tise
(US S '000)
Totals Including Contingencies I,                   Total
1984         1?85         1986         1987         US $       (USS '000)
A. LARGE FARMS                   5,753,809.8  2,496i913.1 2,219r818.1              - 10,470,541.1 10,470,541.1
B. HASYMA                          812,430.0    170,149.2             -            -    982,579.2    982,579.2
C. SMALLHOLDERS                    125,375.0    287,061.5             -            -    412,436.5    412,436.5
O. WORKSHOPS I STORES              942,980.0             -            -            -    942,980.0    942,980.0
E. COTTON TRACKS                   6919624.4    889,325.5 1,744?175.1   251,296.6  3,576,421.7  3,576,421.7
F. INPUTS                        3,990,964.6  5,681,007.1 3Y577Y897.5   189,046.7 13,438,915.9 13Y438,915.?
G. RESEARCH   D DEVELOPMENT        319,957.0    101.254.4   107,302.4    25,039.3    553,553.1    553,553.1
R. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            476,425.0    5213930.0   558,866.6   596,173.9  2s1539395.5  2,153,395.5
I. MONITORING AND EVALUATION       185,735.0      63,163,2    68,002.0    72,988.2    389,888.4    389,888.4
J. TRAINING                         63,901.6      51,750.0    55,105.0    58,411.3    229,167.9    229,167.9
K. STUDIES                         100,600.0    142,117.2   113,336.6              -    356,053.8    356,053.8
Total PROJECT COSTS               13,463,802.4 10,404,671.3 8,444,503.4 1,192,956.0 33#505,933.0 33,505,933.0
November 22, 1983 11:11
1/ Excluding special contingency



- 61 -
TABLE 2
MADAGASCAR
Cotton Development Project
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
HASYMA/    Road              Foreign
IDA          CCCS farmers      Fund    Total  Excage
Special
Credit   Credit
Plant Vehicles & Equipent
Large farm - Year 1                 -       -        5.8       -       -         5.8      5.2
- Year 2               2.9     1.0        -       0.4      -         4.3      3.9
HASYM                              0.1      -        0.9       -       -         1.0      0.9
Smallholders                       0.3      -        0.1       -       -         0.4      0.4
Cbmputer                            -       -        0.1       -       -         0.1      0.1
Workshops                           -       -        0.3       -       -         0.3      0.3
Research & Developmnt               -       -        0.5       -       -         0.5      0.4
Technical Assistance                -       -        0.1       -       -         0.1      0.1
Cotton Tracks & Component           -       -        -        0.1      -         0.1      0.1
Civil Works
Workshops                           -       -        0.2      0.4      -         0.6      0.3
Cotton Tracks                       -      2.5        -        -      0.6        3.1      2.5
Inputs
Year 1                              -       -        3.3)    1.2       -        12.2     10.8
Years 2 and 3                      4.1     3.6        -  )
Technical Assistance                  -      1.6        -       0.3      -         1.9      1.6
Mbnitorirg & Evaluation               -      0.2        -        -       -         0.2      0.2
Trainirg                              -      0.2        -        -       -         0.2      0.2
Studies - HAMA                       0.1    0.2        -        -        -         0.3      0.3
Unallocated                          0.4    0.6         -       1.6     0.7        3.3
7.9     9.9     11.3       4.0     1.3       34.4



- 62 -
TABLE 3
MADAGASCAR
Cotton Development Project                 Projet de Developpement du Coton
Estimated Schedule of                        Calendrier estimatif des
Disbursements 1/                                decaissements 1/
Cumulative disbursement at
IDA fiscal year           end quarter/Decaissements             Exercice et
and quarter                      cumulatifs                  trimestre IDA
IDA 2/
(US$ '000)      (SDR '000)
1984/85                                                       1984/85
September 30, 1984              500              500          30 septembre 1984
December 31, 1984             3,800            3,600          31 decembre 1984
March 31, 1985                4,200            4,000          31 mars 1985
June 30, 1985                 4,600            4,400          30 juin 1985
1985/86                                                       1984/86
September 30, 1983            5,300            5,000          30 septembre 1985
December 31, 1985             7,700            7,300          31 decembre 1985
March 31, 1986                8,300            7,900          31 mars 1986
June 30, 1986                 9,100            8,600          30 juin 1986
1986/87                                                       1986/87
September 30, 1986           10,100            9,oO0          30 septembre 1986
December 31, 1986            11,900           11,300          31 decembre 1986
March 31, 1987               12,400           11,800          31 mars 1987
June 30, 1987                13,300           12,600          30 juin 1987
1987/88                                                       1987/88
September 30, 1987           14,000           13,200          30 septembre 1987
December 31, 1987            14,900           14,000          31 d6cembre 1987
March 31, 1988               15,700           14,900          31 mars 1988
June 30, 1988                16,400           15,500          30 juin 1988
1988/89                                                       1988/89
September 30, 1988           17,000           16,100          30 septembre 1988
December 31, 1988            17,800           16,900          31 decembre 1988
1/ Disbursements have been estimated on the basis of an implementation
period of four and a half years/
Les decaissements ont ete estime sur la base d'une periode
d'implementation de quatre ans et demi.
2/ IDA Credit and Special Credit are expected to disburse pari passu.



MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT COTONNIER
Seed Cotton Yield and Production Increases under the Project/Augmentations de Rendement et de Production de Coton-Graine sous le Projet
Year       0         1         2        3         4           5      6     Annne
Flood-recession                                       (1982)                                                                        Decrue
Area (ha)                                            8875     8875    10000    11500    11800         11800  11800                  Superficie (ha)
Yield (tons/ha)                                      2.17     2.17      2.35      2.40     2.43        2.45   2.45                  Rendement (tons/ha)
Production (tons)                                   19254    19254    23500    27600    28675         28910  28910                  Production (tonnes)
Irrigated                                                                                                                           Irrigude
Area (ha)                                            4185      4185     5000      5500     6200        6200   6200                  Superficie (ha)
Yield (tons/ha)                                      0.73     0.80      1.00      1.10      1.20       1.30   1.30                  Rendement (tons/ha)
Production (tons)                                    3036     3348      5000      6050      7440       8060   8060                  Production (tonnes)
Rainfed                                                                                                                             Pluviale
Area (ha)                                            4407      4500     5500      7000      7500       7500   7500                  Superficie (ha)
Yield (tons/ha)                                      0.81      0.85     0.90      1.00      1.05       1.10   1.10                  Rendement (tons/ha)
Production (tons)                                    3586      3600     4950      7000      7875       8250   8250                  Production (tonnes)
Total area cropped (ha)                             17467    17560    20500    24000    25500         25500  25500                     Superficie totale cultivee (ha)
Average yield (tons/ha)                              1.48      1.49     1.63      1.69      1.73       1.77   1.77                     Rendement moyen (tonnes/ha)
Total production (tons)                             25876    26202    33450    40650    43989         45220  45220                     Production totale (tonnes)
April 5, 1983



MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                      PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT COTONIER
Farm Model 1: Forecast of Net Income from Production and Net Cash                                           Moddle de Ferme 1: Projection de Revenu Net de Production et Flux Financier
Flow on a Large Cotton Farm                                                                                     d'une Grosse Plantation de Coton
Without Project:  170 ha                                                                                                                                     Sana Projet:  170 ha
With Project   :  240 ha                                                                                                                                     Avec Projet:  240 ha
Without Project/
Sans Projet                With Project/Avec Projet
Year          0               1        2        3       4        5        6        Annoe
A.  Income fro. Production  -                                                                                                                                A.  Revenus de la Production
Area (ha)                                                      170             170      205      240     240      240      240                               Superficie (ha)
Yield (tons/ha)                                                2.00 b/         2.00    2.20    2.40    2.45b/  2.45    2.45                                  Rendement (tons/ha)
Seed cotton production (tons)                                  340            340      451      576      588      588      588                               Production coton-graine (tonnes)
Sales (FMG'0OO)a/                                            67320          64600   85690  109440  111720  111720  111720                                    Ventes (FMG '000) a/
B.  Costs of Production (FMG '000)                                                                                                                           b.  Coats de Production
(a) Investment c/                                              -              -      ib500   10500       -        -        -                                 (a) Investissements c/
(b) Operating                                                                                                                                                (b) Fonctionnement
Seeds n/                                                   43              43       52       61       61       61       61                                   Seaees a/
Fertilizers e/                                           5704            5704    6878    8053    8053    8053    8053                                        Engrais e7
Herbicides fT                                             -               -        -       1458    2916    2916    2916                                      Herbicides f/
Insecticides S/                                          8747            8747   10548   12349   12349   12349   12349                                        Insecticides g/
Mechanical Operations h/                                10787           10787   10787   13008   15229   15229   15229                                        Opdrations MheaniNdes h/
Manual Labor i/                                          4080            4080    5412    6912    7488    7488    7488                                        Main d'Oeuvre i/
29361          29361   33677   41841   46096   46096   46096
(c) Financial                                                 2168           2168    2614    3279    3500    3500    3500                                    (c) Financewent (FMG '000)
Total Costa of Production                                      3L529          31529   46791   55620   49596   49596   49596                                  CoQts Toteux de Production
Income                                                         35791          33071   38899   53820   62124   62124   73956                                  Revenus
C.  Financing (FMG '000)                                                                                                                                     C.  Financement (FMG '000)
Debt Servicing (short-term) J/                                2168           2168    2614    3279    3500    3500    3500                                  Service de la Dette(court-terme)i/
Debt Servicing (medium-term)k/                                -               -      12250   11200   10150    9100    8050                                   Service de la  ' (moyen-terme)l/
2168           2168   14864   14 47         0    12600   11550
Net Cash Flow                                                  33623          30903   24035   39341   48474   48474   48474                                  FIlx Financier
a/ In year 0, at the official price of FPG 148/kg for large planters plus a                     a/  En annde 0, sux prim official de FMG 148/kg pour lea gros planteurs greffge  d'une
production bonus of FMG 30/kg and a subsidy equivalent to FMG 20/kg; as from year                prime de production de FMG 30/kg, et d'un  ontant dgal a la subvention de FMG 20/kg;
1, subsidy reduced to FMG 12/kg (final price - FPG 190/kg).                                      en annoe 1, subvention rdduite A FPG 12/kg (prix final - FMG 190/kg).
b/ Average yield for 1980 and 1981: 2.02 tons/ha; yield in 1977: 2.54 tons/ha.                  b/  Rendement moyen pour 1980 et 1981: 2,02 tonnes/ha; rendesent en 1977: 2,54
c/ At FPG 300,000/ha for land clearing, ploughing, harrowing and furrowing, industry                 tonnea/hs.
depreciation of equipment.                                                                   c/  A FMP  300.000/ha pour le debrouissaillage, labour, pulvdrissage et billonnage, et
d/ 50 kg/ha at FMG 5 kg.                                                                             amortissement du mat6riel.
e/ 200 kg urea/ha at FMG 102/kg; 100 kg potassium sulphate/ha at PMG 100/kg; 6 kg               d/  50 kg/ha a FPG 5 kg.
boracine/ha at FMG 250/kg; 3 kg Solubor/ha at FMG 550/kg.                                    e/  200 kg urea/ha a FMG 102/kg; 100 kg sulphate de potasse/ha a FMP   100/kg; 6b kg
f/ Little used at present; increasing to a standard application in year 4 of                         boracine/hNa  FMG 250/kg; 3 kg Solubor/ha A FMG 550/kg.
pre-eergent herbicide at rate of 4.5 1/ha at FPG 2700/1.                                     f/  Pe. utilis6 A pr6sent; accroissant A un dpandsge uniforme en pre-dmergence en anode
5 treatments of monocrotophoo (36 1/ha at FMG 950/1) and 5 treatments of                         4 de 4.5 1/ha d'herbicides A FMG 2700/1.
pyrethrin-based insecticides (7.5 I/ha at FYG 2300/1).                                       g/  5 traitementa de sonocrotophos (36 I/ha A FMG 950/1) et 5 traitements de
h/ Running costs of equipment and labor per ha: burning and clearing at FMG 9,000;                   pyrethrinnides (7,5 1/ha A PMG 2300/1).
ploughing at FMG 1,200; harrowing and furrowing at FMG 9,000; planting and                   h/  CoOts de fonctionnement du mat6riel et de la main-d'oeuvre: brOlis et
thinning at FMG 9,750, weeding at FMG 7,000; fertilizer application at PMG 2,500;                d6broussaillage A PMR  9,000; labeur A FP4G 1,200; pulv4rismage et billonage A FPG
insecticide application by air at PMG 20,000; and transport at FMG 5,000.                        9,000; semis et demariage A FMG 9,750, sarclage a FMP   7,000; 6pandage a FMP   2,500;
i/ Harvest at FMG 12/kg seed cotton.                                                                 dpandage d'insecticides par traitement adrien A PMG 20,000 et transport a FMG 5,000.
17 Interest for 1 year on seasonal credit (100% of input costs) at 15% per annum.               i/  Recolte A FMG 12/kg coton-graine.
Medium-term  loan of FMG 35 million, payable on 5 years at 15% interest.                     1/  Intdrft pendant une anode sur le crddit de campagne (100% du codt des intrants) A
15%  par  n.
k/ Prdt A moyen tenme do PRO 35 millions, aur 5 sose A 15% Par an.



-  5-                                                                                    TABLE 6
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                            PROJET DE DEVELOPPEHENT COTONNIER
Farm Kodal I;: For a.et of Net Income for Pradoation and Net nC.h Ploe no a                             Modle de Fern  11: Proiection da Roe.na Net do Prodoction et Flua  Financicr
Email Cotton Farm                                                                         dune Petite Euplaitotiar o  Coltur  Pl-iAle
Not Areas! .Sperfailo Nettos
Wlthaat frojet(h        With Pro jota
So. sas5Jt(ha) 
Cottoo                                                                       0.9                     1.4                                                  Cotoa
Onion                                                                        0.4                     0.4                                                 YKr!
Coasovo                                                                      0.3                     0.3                                                  Yoanioc
Butter h_a                                                                   04                      04                                                   FPin do COp
Mdoa,e C..r v   Batter bena.                                                                                                                              Main, ManIac, Poi do Cop
Pr-d-ct-        V.Iae of                                               Eired        Foily
Area/        Yilld/        loaf         PFrdactiaf    On-farm C..../ Salne!           Valof/   Bervice/    Lboor/
D rf late  Roodemt  Ptrdnation  Va1nor do Prod.  Atoa-Cone.              C-meiral  Valoar  Proe ttians  Yl o-d'co   Foe.
'000)
M.iae                    0.4          1.0         0.4           12.0              0.4              -            -        4.8           20                 Mafn
C.t..v.                  0.3          8           2.4           24.0              2.4              -            -        -             -                  M nioc
Bott-r boone             0.4          0.S         0.32          25.6             -                 0.32        25.6      -             16                 Poio do Cop
61.6                                           05.6      1.8
Cotton                                                                                                                                                    Cocoa
Without Project!
Onsc  Pro jt                    With Ptoject/A-ec Pr-jet
YT-t         0               1        2        3       4        5        6         Antne
A.  Income from Prodoctiot                                                                                                                                A.  R_nur de 1. Production
Aron (ha)                                                    0 9             0.9      1.0      1,2     1.3      1.4      1.4                             Sup-rficie (ha)
Yield (to.c/ha)                                             0.9 *f           0.9      1.0      1.1     1.2      1.2      1.2                              Radnot (t ..../h.)
Sand cotton prodoctiot (to0t)                               0.81             0.B1    1.00    1.32    1.56    1.69    1.68                                 Podootion  onne-g o  (t...
Soloe  (F0G '000)  /                                         162             162      200     264      312      336      336                             V.otro (FMG'000)       ne
S.  Canto of Prodoctiac (FPG  B000)                                                                                                                        . Coats do Production (PFG  000)
(o) lnce-t lote  f                                                                   12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0                                 (o) Invootic....-to O/
(b)  -peratio                                                                                                                                             (b) Faooitt e=et
Oeedd01                                               0.2             0.2      0.3      0.3      0.3     0.4      0.4                                  S..nc  on. 
Fertili -rn Of                                         7.6              7.6    12.7    16.7    25.0    27.0    27.0                                     Eagra-i  e7
o-ectiold-&Ff                                          20.4            23.4    01.7    34.9    28.1    41.0    41.0                                      IanoontiZd-o0
Ma-haoicl1 Opor-tioos E/                               20.7             20.7    11.0    15.6    29.9    32.2    32.2                                      Epdronl     Mhlcooieedo  8/
Marv. Nt hf                                              -                -      2.0      7.7    11.3    13.1    13.1                                    REIcoIt. h
33.9            03.9    58.6    77.2   104.6   113.7   113.7
Foelly Labor (c.d.) if                                      84              84       90     100      105      110      110                                Main-d o000re fadllo 1
(c) Intornot on Loans Ji                                   10.1             10.1    11.7    23.6    24.1    23.7    21.9                                 (a) Cnntrfc nor - rOtm  if
Tonal loot of Productioo                                   64.0             64.0    82.3   112.8   140.7   149.4   147.6                                 CoOta Tota-o de Prod-ction
(exclodiog family lobor)                                                                                                                                         (hore- n..f.)
l      fcom  tram Cotton Froduction                           98.0            98.0   117.7   151.2   171.3   186.6   188.4                               onvecos do Coc
ITcoma from Other Cropping Actiritiee                         23.6            23.6        i    25.6    2          3       23.6                           Onveanu d'Aotroc Spe ulaone
Total Icome                                                123.6           123.6   143.3   176.0   196.9   212.0   214.0                                 Roveo-o  Totaux
C.  Fi-naning                                                                                                                                             C. Finacemnt
Debt Eervicing (a-ort-term)                                 10.1            10.1    11.7    14.6    16.9    10.3    1.3                                  Service de 1o Dec10 (cot toe
Sobt Strvicing (tfediw te                                     -               -        -       21.0    19.2    17.4    13.6                              o ce td  1.   - (yconr  e-)/
(mdlo-o1        m10.1    11.7    35.6    35.1    35.7    33.9
NSt Cooh Floe                                                113.5           113.5   131.6   141.2   161.8   176.5   180.1                               Flo, FiP00i0 T
ROtoro to Family Labor (F1=0/.d.) =1                         1167            1167    1308    1412    1631    1696    1713                                VYlooi-atioa M.O.F. (F8O/h.j.)
of Far Without ProJect Yield, -n  of 177-81 ic tabko.                                         Ao  PFr rondepect Son. Projot, ayo.noo ond.e  1977-01 otilinfo.
I/ At official pric  of YdG 150/kg far celilhldrn., vith productioa bonus of PIIG            if  Aur pri  EffiElo1 de PG 150/kg poor petitn onploitactn at avec one pri_ de FHG
30/kg,  nd eobhidy of P1MG 20.                                                                  30/kg et  ub-veation do PdG 30/kg.
c' One ao-plaogh eith frro.oing bodio n  orth PFG 60,000, r-cio ed ory 5 Y oore.                 c/  Une chorru  d'-ttelog  oven corps billlonoon    A on co- t do PYG 60000, replocEe
T/ s0 kg/h. At PYG 5 kg.                                                                           toon loo 5 000.
el5 kg  - /ha o Pt G 102/kg sod 20 kg of aolomi phoephe-o or po.t-oiuo                        V/  50 kg/ho d PA G 5/kg.
oolphote/ho at FM 1OO/kg; innoeonnlg to 100 kg ond 75 kg/ho r-ep-tio-ly it ye..   of  55 kg -rf  A FMG 102/kg et 20 kg nolphat  de pott-e a PYKG 100/kg; oomotaat a
3.                                                                                              100/kg  t1 73kg/ho rnpclvnn   00 oan   5.
f/ 4 tr..tnot of  -ononrtophbn in ULV (6 1 of 0.4 kg/l a.i. at PYG 2500/1) nd 3               f/  4 trnitn ent- do  --octophon non forno OLV (6 1 do 0.4kg/i =.-. a PFG 250011) ot
treantnt of pyr-thio-bh...d L.o..tiniden (4.5 I/ho or Pt G 2300/1); chonging tn 3              3 tralit-o te do py-rthrinvido  (4.5 I/ho A FYG 2300/1); ponoant A 3 to-itonoto
troatacto  (4.5 1) -nd 5 troat-nor  (7.5 1) por ha rep-cti-vly, Ia year 2.                      (4.5 1)  t 5 t-otrooent- (7.5 1/ha) r. pocttvonot on ..a.A  2.
if Plooghiag nod h rrotiog nt FMG 17,000/ha -nd forrooi.g nt FYG 6.000/hn  inu-               j/  Lbhoro t ppolvdri.go d FNG 17.000/ha ot billlonago A FMG 6.000/ha, -oin
-ecuI doprociltio  of  qoipnot.                                                               a-ortin-e-nt nn00l donoriel.
h/ An.oming that ontro  prodctlono vill be harvenOod eth blood labor at FYG 15/kg.            h/  becolto  dditioolle pt roin-d' oenrr  egF g6e I FNG 15/kg.
i/ Inoladon 10 m.d. fOr bhr-nig and coariog; 10 m.d. for plnnting nod thinnicg; 2             T/  Co=pr-noot 10. h.i. poor brllio ot defrichennt; 10 h.3. poor noeid  ot ddariogo;
,.d. for fertilizer application  20 m.d. far vodiog, 8 g.d. for innortinide                     2.h.i. poor dpandogo d'ongroi. 20 h.j. poor dpadngo ine ..otiido; 35 kg/h.i. poor
tre_tnot, 3  kg/l.d. foo harvont nd 0 m.d. for do trootilo  at  ,ot,n plntne.                  retolto   t 8 h.i. poor doetronnlaa natocaloro.
- Inc-m r    no on onol credit (inpote  lad preparation) nod -dium term  loon t 15%  J/  IItdIrt  -cr6dit de  -ompagne (int-nte, prattio ..on  do tcrvaoo).
per  -nnu=.                                                                                k/  Slbo  nti;o: 50% do codt do engraI  rt hebrhicidon.
kl/ Sbhidy: 50X of -amn  of fertiliroro And inoeetiidoe.                                     i/  Iotdert nor Pret A 00y70  tIrn  on reohor-b      nont do capital n  t100  do PFG 12,000 par
i/ Int r st on edilo  term  loon ed ropoymnt of apita1 at FMG 12,000 po  an-                        -
=f Cottoc prod-rtio  o-1y.                                                                   ofr Prodotion do coton oonlent.



MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT COTONNIER
Agricultural Inputs Requirements/Besoins en Intrants Agricoles
Year        0         1         2         3        4       Total    Ann6e
(1982)
Total area cropped (ha)                                 17467    17560    20500    25000    25500           -                   Superficie totale cultivee (ha)
Flood-recession (ha)                                   8875      8875    10000    11500    11800          -                     Decrue (ha)
Irrigated (ha)                                         4185      4185      5000      5500      6200       -                     Irriguee (ha)
Rainfed (ha)                                           4407      4500      5500      7000      7500       -                     Pluviale (ha)
Flood-recession                                         (1981)                                                                  Decrue
Urea (tons)                                            2185      2500      2500      3000      4000      12000                  Uree (tonnes)
Potassium sulphate (tons)                              1217      1700      1700      2000      2600       8000                  Sulfate de potasse (tonnes)
Ammonium phosphate (tons)                                 7        -         -         -         -        -                     Phosphate d'ammoniaque (tonnes)
Boron complex (tons)                                     72       100       100       120       120        400                  Complexe bore (tonnes)
Pyrethrins and organo-phosphates (1000 1)                50       220       250       260       300       1030                  Pyrethrinoides et organo-phosphore (1000 1)
Herbicides (1000 1)                                      -         15        15        20        40         90                  Herbicides (1000 1)
Irrigated
Urea (tons)                                             430       700       820       900      1000       3420                  Uree (tonnes)
Pyrethrins and organo-phosphates (1000 1)                20        75       100       125       150        450                  PyrethrinoTdes et organo-phosphates (1000 1)
Rainfed                                                                                                                         Pluviale
Urea (tons)                                             150       200       300       400       450       1350                  Uree (tonnes)
Potassium sulphate (tons)                               150       200       250       300       350       1100                  Sulfate de potasse (tonnes)
Ammonium phosphate (tons)                                75       100       300       500       700       1600                  Phosphate d'ammoniaque (tonnes)
Pyrethrins and organo-phosphates  (1000 1)               20        50       125       125       125        425                  PyrethrinoTdes et organo-phosphore (1000 1)
April 5, 1983



- 67 -
TABLE 8
MADAGASCAR
COTION DEVELOPMEN1 PRWECT/PROJET DE DEVELO1PP T CWINIER
Equipment and Vehicles Requirements/Besoins en Materiel et Vehiclues
-   1984-               1 1985-              986
Large       Sn1ll-   large      Snall-    large        Sll-
farms/     holders/  farms/   holders/  farms/        holders/
Gros       Petits    Gros       Petits    Gros        Petits
Plant-     Exploit-  plant-   Exploit-  plant-        Exploit-
eurs       ants       eurs      ants       eurs       ants
FAS)RA               HAS)4~             HASMAH
Equipnt                                                                                Materiel
Bulldozers              12    1       -        7   -    -         -    -         -    Bulldozers
Tractors 1/            134   16       -       47   -    -        81    -         -    Tracteurs 1/
Ploughs                 96    9       -       20   -    -        30    -         -    Charrues
Harrows                 28    6       -       10   -    -        10    -         -    Pulverisseurs
Seed drills             48    6       -       20   -    -        10    -         -    Semoirs
Fertilizer spreaders     3    2       -       15   -    -        10    -         -    Expandeurs d'engrais
Rotary slashers         19    3       -        8   -    -         -    -         -    Cyrobroyeurs
Trailers                47    2       -       10   -    -        10    -         -    Remnrques
Pumps                   27    5       -        -   -    -        10    -         -    Paipes
Power plant              4    5       -        4   -    -         8    -         -    Groupes electriques
Ox-ploughs 2/            -    - 1,000         -   -2,000          -    -         -    a(arrues attelees 2/
Vehicles                                                                               Vehicules
Heavy trucks             -    -    -          10   2      -       -    -         -    Caiions
4 W.D. vehicles         13   18    -          10   -      -      10    -         -    Vehicules double pont
Motorcycles             22   15    -           -   3      -      22    -         -    Motorcyclettes
Bicycles                 -   15    -           -  100     -       -    -         -    Bicyclettes
1/ On the "baibohos/, 1.4 H.P. of tractor power         1/ Sur les "baibohos" 1,4 C.V. de puissance-tracteur
is required per ha;                                    est requise par ha;
2/ Multipurpose                                         2/ Multiculteurs



- 68 -
TABLE 9
MADAGASCAR
Cotton Development Project
HASYMA Balance Sheet
(FM; tnillion)
Audited Accounts for Year          After
ended March 31         Draft Restruct             Projected 2/
-urirg
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Net Fixed Assets            455    573    586   1238   2179   2179   3828   5209   5778   5406   5272
Current Assets
Stocks                  2331   2179   2340   2532   3407   3407      -      -       -      -      -
Receivables              608   1337   1030   1791   1403   1403      -      -       -      -      -
Cash                     628    523      80    179    313    813     -      -       -      -      -
3568   3841   3452   4504   5123   5623      -      -      -      -      -
Current Liabilities       2072   2570   2209   2370   3993   3993      -       -      -      -      -
Net Current Assets        1495   1270   1243   2133   1130   1630   16021/ 2441   2986   4137   4959
1950   1844   1830   3372   3309   3809   5430   7650   8764   9543  10231
Share Capital & Reserves  1305   1346   1352   1413    753   1453   1493   2065   2608   3565   5026
Long & Medium Debt         645    497    477   1958   2556   2356   39371/ 5585   6156   5978   5205
1950   1844   1830   3372   3309   3809   5430   7650   8764   9543  10231
Current Ratio              1.7    1.5    1.6    1.9    1.3    1.4      -      -       -      -      -
Debt/Equity Ratio        33:67  27:73  26:74  58:42  77:23  62:38      -       -      -      -
1/ Assumes inputs value FM 1387.4 million are transferred to HASYMA on a loan basis
2/ Assumes replacement capital expenditure by HASYMA each year



TABLE 10
- 69 -
MADAGASCAR
Cotton DevelojxEnt Project
HASMA Incre Stateents
(MU mllion)
Aidited Acccunts for Year
Ended March 31         Draft                Projected
4/     4/
1979    1980   1981    1982   1983   1984    1985   1986   1987   1988
A. Program
Area (hectares)               22,200 17,900 16,900 18,700  17,500  20,500  25,000  25,500  25,500  25,500
Proxduction (tons)-Seed Cotton  32,900  30,000  23,200  27,950  25,900  26,200  33,450  40,600  44,000  45,200
-Fiber        12,700  11,500   8,900 11,000   9,800  10,000  12,700  15,400 16,700  17,200
Prices (M_/kg)3/-Seed Cotton      86      91      95    105    130    210    210    272    285    291
-Fiber           268    284    329    355    439        704    704    889    942    996
B. Incai  Statemmts
Sales - Fiber                   -       -       -       -      3,944   7,040   8,940   8,940 15,731  17,131
- Inputs                  -       -       -       -      2,131  1,526   2,141   2,141   2,873   3,161
Sales Subtotal                 5,667   5,260  4,933   5,843   6,075   8,566  11,081  11,081  18,604  20,292
Purchases - Cotton             2,719   2,363   2,273   2,901   3,058   5,502   7,024   7,024  12,540 13,424
- Inputs             1,073   1,560   1,579   1,397     247   1,387   1,946   2,375   2,612   2,874
- Other                558    265        7      64    110    110    120    130    140    150
Purchases Subtotal             4,350   4,188   3,861   4,363   5,638   6,999   9,090  13,548  15,292  16,448
Gross Profit                   1,317   1,071   1,071   1,479     437   1,567   1,991   2,754   3,312   3,843
Other Operating Incoae           478    458    605    730    975    884    972  1,069   1,176   1,294
Operating Costs
Persomel - Local               227    247    308    434    494    525    577    635    699    769
-Expatriate           75      64      67      84      84      92    290    280    304    328
Depreciation                    69      79      93    103    179    450    424    383    346    311
Transport                       80    113    317    455    433    551    606    667            734    807
Project Manitoring,
Evaluation & Training         -      -       -       -       -       -         48      48     58      55
Other                          478    462    448    510         52    617    679    747    821    903
931     966  1,235   1,588   1,994   2,236   2,627   2,761   2,963   3,175
Net Operating Profit             864    563    441    622   [210]   214    336   1,062   1,525   1,963
Interest                         122      63    110    201    191    174    157    710    615    520
Net Profit after Interest        741    500    331    421   (401]    40    179    352    910   1,443
Grants fran Govermnent           -       -       -       -      -       -        238    216    239    248
Exceptional (Profits) & Losses     2      18      13)    [5]    27   -          -      -       -       -
levy to Caisse                   395    350    296    382    309   -            -       -      -       -
Profits Tax                      120      90      32      36       6   -       -       -       -       -
Net Profit Available for         224      41       6       7    [646]    40    417    569  1,149  1,691
Distributica or Transfer
to Reserves
Gross Profit Percentagel/        23%    20X    22%    25%    -          -       -     -       -       -
Net Operating Profit Percentagel/ 13%     1%     -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -
Return on Capital Eployed2/  -18%         3%      1%      17    -       -       -      -      -        26%
Debt Service Coverage            3.4    2.9    1.9    1.6   -           -       -     -       -       -
1/ As a percentage of sales
2/ Net profit plus interest as a percentage of capital employed
31 Akala price
4/ Assumes inflation after 1986 at 10% per anmnn



-70 -                           TABLE 11
MADAGASCAR
Cotton Development Project
Government Cash Flow from Project
(FMG million)
Net
Government  Loan             Govern-
Project        Debt      Receipts 1/ Receipts and   ment
Cost        Service   from HASYMA Cost Recovery  Flow
1984                 [5773]          [34]        [211]         6169         150
1985                 [4450]          [39]       1335           5863        2810
1986                 [1920]          [44]       1807           1962        1805
1987                  [401]          [44]        1094           -           649
1988                   -             [44]       1653            -          1609
1989                   -           [796]        1570            -           774
1990                   -           [771]        1486            -           715
1991                   -           [747]        1403            -           656
1992                   -           [723]        1320            -           597
1993                   -           [699]        1234            -           535
1994                   -           [734]          642           -            [92]
1995                   -           [709]          642           -            [67]
1996                   -           [685]          642           -            [43]
1997                   -           [660]          642           -            [18]
1998                   -            [636]         642           -             [6]
1999                   -            [100]         642           -           542
2000                   -           [100]          642           -           542
2001                   -           [1001          642           -           542
2002                   -            [99]          642           -           543
2003                   -             [99]         642           -           543
2004-2033              -            [98]         642            -           544
1/  Includes (i) payments to Trust Fund for track rehabilitation and
maintenance component: 1985 FMG 1168 million, 1986 FMG 950 million;
(ii) farmer repayments for equipment to BTM: 1984 FMG 1915 million,
1985 FMG 1708 million; and (iii) 70X Government interest in the
increase in HASYMA's equity.



- 71 -
TABLE 12
MADAGASCAR
Cotton Development Project
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
-flu
TMe of bOto  t
Large Tarts - F xistin  urnts   1n3.000  268.1000  3284.000  3774.0e0  405.,000  409e.000  4A95,ON
Lire. Fas. -   t.s.ism          2645.000  6300.000  7100.000  7166.000  7166.000  7166.000  764,.00
I0riatu.d                        826,000  1351.000  2045.000  2356.000  235.00o  2356.000  23,s.000
tainted - existing arnm          *5..000    0,NO0  11253.000  2350,000  1350.000  1350.000  138.800
hXntefd- -tne.                   90o.000  250o.000  3150.000  33.           0,000 3300.000  M3M0.800
trice                              0.628  0 ,7n         0.700 0.710    0.710  00       0.700     o.
Vsle of Zstiu
Lare FTarn - e.istint ras   1207.644  1900.480  2330.640  279.540  2907.450  2907.450  3435.705
Larg  Far  - ehtensisn          06.060   4473.000  5040.000  507.B6O  5087,860  50s7.860  6002.274
Irrittd                          510.728   "59.210  14510950  1672.760  0672.760  1672.760  1976,684
tainted                          202,600   639,000   790a750   sa.s500   ssa.soo   sss.5co  I272.650
Rainted - extesie.               565.200  1775,000  2236.500  2343.000  2343.000  2343.000  2768.700
TOTAL 081(5T8                   4235.232  9754,600 00859.840 12741.660 1269.370 12969.570 0376.013
CaTS
Lied Deneleget
Lan* F.rts - extension           864.000  1152.000   230.400          -
tainted - entensmoe               280.80    288,000   384.000   124.90          -
T0TAL LAB  800OLPFME1ZT           MO.W00  1440.000   614.400   124.800          -          -         -
ow-MWlZr  ErFitw^
---- - - - -_- --- - - -
Large Tar1s-axasting  ars   5s20.000             -          -         -         -  0104.000  1104.000
Large Fars - extension                 - 270. 240                          - -  -          -   541.440
lrigated                         422.400   314,0W           -.        -            -           1400   147.804
Rainted - existing aes           240.000   174.720          -         -          -    48.000    83.520
e rinted -   te.ien              53,.760   404.06           -         -         -   107,520   188.140
TMTAL AGRICULTURAL EO1IP        6716.160  U600.000          -         -         -  1344.000  2064.960
Other Ixesttens
La,r, Far.s-  istin   areas    478.080   337.920   491.520   166.080
Lirsn Tans - extensin            494.400   345.600   520.000   069.920
rriga.ted                        1603.20   111.360   170.000    52.900
Rainted - existing are              .400    60.430    92.160    20.O-
Rainfed - extension              202.320   162,240   246.720    77,760
TOAL 161E0T07S                1451.520  1017.600  1521.280   495.360
mInts
Larg  Far-  - existing are.    a 7.960   59s.0so    77.760   977.200   977.2ao   977,280   977.280
Large Fars - et-nsen            0237.460  1791.360  20330270   2928.960  2s28,960  2928.960  292a.s60
Irrigated                        530.560  60s.040   030,040  1033.920  1033.920  1033.920  1033.02
Rainted - existing areas         120.760   215.040   202.020   256.320   256.320   236.320   256.320
Rainted - extension              252,450   644,100   695.040   768.960   76a.960   768.960  7u.0to
- - - - - - - - - - --- ---   ---- - --------   -- ---    - - _ - -- --   --
TOIAL 0 9UTS                    3043.200  3940.480  4477.440  5065.440  5965.440  5965.440  5965.440
Oheratins Cests
m-etene ,al toineent
LarSe Fe--etensisn                     -   921.600   921.600   021,600   921.600   920.600   920.600
rigated                           64.020    64,736    76,000    76.00N    76.800    76. 00    76.0O0
Raiste6 -  xisting ereeg          25.920    S3.400    33400    38.400    30.400    28,400   32.400
Rainted   extnsion                64.320   112.2DO   102.720   1022.720   002,720   102.720   002.720
TOTAL ICRE0E00AL E0U02          154.567  133.220  I09.520  LL39.520  1139.520  1120.520  L039.520
Tra-k ainteninee
Large FTa-  - eOintg area                   74.800   28.000    32.640    34.560    43.200    43.200
Large Fares -                              1n4nsion  - 74.720    63.360    69.120    59.520    74.,88  74.880
r,ated                                 .    37.440    00.240    23.060    19.200    24.960    24.960
taintd - quisting eres                 -    25.920    00.3S0    03.440    00.560    14.400    04.400
Rtintfd - tutasLi.-    67.200    28.ao0    30.720    27.040    34.560    34.560
- -- ------ - - - - - --_--             -_
TOTAL TdlW                             -   350.160   049.760   260.60   051.60   192.o00   092.800
FTa. Lader
Lane FTan  e-tengigs             15-00   2a.a        299.520   m.520   299.5s2 2e .520   m.s20
Irrigated                         35.520    64.20    8 .480   007.520   107.520   107,520   007.520
tainted - eaistit ares                 -    41.280    56,040    60.440    61.440    61.440    61.440
ainted  -etnsion                  35.520   106640   141.120   130.240   138.240   138.240   13.240
tTITAL FAR  LAt                  286.240   479.040  531.760   606. 70   606.720   606.720   6  .724
TOTAL C0STS                    12444,480 12004.800  8492.160  8500.80  7863.360  9247.8  na68.6ao
MET 11T4                        4M.248 -2250.110  33t7.a6o  42.Wh  516.210  3720.8     5W,.73



MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
B.TOTAL       UP 10%       UP 20X       UP 50Z    DOWN 10    DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
,.TOTAL            29.694       42.357       55.610      103.646        16.?59        2.866w        NONE       13.969         .015        6.628 
JP 10%             18.145       29.694       41.189       79.824        5.640      -10.444          NONE        8.504        5.479        4.029
JP 20X              7.857       19,127       29.694       62,613       -5,733      -31.910          NONE        3,576        2,295        1,687
!p 50X            -31.910       -9.114        21.866      29,694         NONE          NONE         NONE       -9,099       -5,723       -4,196
i)wN 10%          43.790       58.686        75.033      139,397       29,694       15.496         NONE       20,161       12,997         9.547
GOUN 20Z          62.613        81.663      103.646      199.715       45.594       29,694         NONE       27,362        17.554       12.871
,OWN 50X         248.789      361.993       559,550         NONE      175,457      124,048       29.694       61.241       37.324        26.929
-AG I YEAR              -            -            -            -            -            -            -       29,694       13.969        9.015
., 2 YEARS              -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -       29.694       13.969
AG 3 YEARS             -             -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -      29,694
H
h



CHART 1
- 73 -
MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
Organization Chart
CONSEILLERS                                            S
.   MINISTRE      l                [ S~~~~~~~~EC~RETARIIAT 
INSPECTEURS                                                         __ l lFIULI ER           J
SERVICE DE L'ADMI _                                                          DIRECTIOIJ FINAN-
NISTRATION GENE-                                                             CIERfE ET DU PER-
RALE                                                                     SONNEL
RFVICE DE L'IN-
FORISATION ET COM-                SECRETAIRE OEIERAL        |
_ 1IUNlICATION
SERVICE DE L.A REPO                                                             DIRECTION DE LA
MV  ACRAIIRE Er DE                                                             PRO_ RA*ATION
IL'A2:':X2'rAllcF AUX
LCOOPLERATL VEL2
DIION DRE LlIN-             (FT T           AtIVIO' 1                   DI:RCTION DrE LA
D  NEENTS AORICOtLs tT DU                   VULOARISATION
FRAZTRUCTURE RURALE                     'VIT10' E1.T 



- 74-                                         CHART 2
MADAGASCAR
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HASYMA - ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of Agricultural Production
Board of Directors
General Manager
- Accounting Unit
- Admin. & Commercial Affairs Unit
- Personnel Unit
Headquarters                                                                     - Pre-Extension Research Unit
(Antananarivo)
Director                                                              Director
Agricultural Production                                             Industrial Infrastructure
Regional Offices                                       -_ _
(Faritany of Mahajanga                             Regional Director
and Faritany of Toliary)                                  I
l   l            _ _______ _____ __  _ _____________________ __   l   l___
Admin. & Finance
Agricultural Extension              Department                        Ginneries Department
Department
- General Accounts Section             - Purchase Section
- Commercial Accounts Section         - Maintenance Section
|Zones|                           - Administration & Personnel           - Factory Operation
Section                               Section
Sectors
Source: HASYMA- December 1982



~127                                       MAAACR2
AREAS OF COTTON PRODUCT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qan
Zone ~nt                                            ae    oei  
''dIfe  ~610tjnoio                   R_____    IIeettrrod                                                           b
Cit/here pk.teiate  Rowes utcessihIe5 en tos,pesajnon ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~no4n
~~ri~a5:d coltisation  ~  ~           Rnilwy
ChRntindfrok'                                                              :~ 
Cnltivatiote after flood withdrawal  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Airporit~16'
Ct,/ta,re a'e detivve    A&anpo..'ts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
textile induetrtes    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~  Risers~J
Mdustr,7es feet//es             /?n'tGte5                                                             BenIonso
StASYMA ginnerien                                                 Ano1l~~~~~o3lnAi$f~
Li?    n  a.......MA/ -~                                                                                                                     Asop 
Oi ~ll  yoesin  oton~gonsFaitn  btndoi                   A                                                                          ntl-,
T~~lilo~~~.,,.,,.,,didy6< AANTANAN'BeoridiOrs
KIIM20     P                                                                                                                                                                           200  0  10 20 
6'  MIlES  50         500                                     Ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~icrantsoMssytor
Betibky                                                   ortp4k6y          >                      Mrsnor
Beta onl~ ~~Bek l
.rts,evotoyono  ~~~~~~              Soceteysso~i  Ix9g    / NOSYC
44-                     6                                      Ag~~~~~~~~~~> 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



