OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS       CREDIT NUMBER 1433 AG
Project Agreement
(Cotton Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
HASY MALAGASY
Dated                            , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1433 MAG
HASYMA PROJECT AGREEM4ENT
AGREEMENT, dated            (,<u/     6      , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting on its own behalf
and as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Fund established with funds
contributed by certain members of the International Development
Association  (hereinafter   called  the  Association)  and  HASY
MALAGASY (hereinafter called HASYMA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Republic of Madagascar (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,500,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that HASYMA agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS (B) by the Special Fund Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association, acting as
Administrator of the Special Fund, established by Resolution No.
IDA 82-6, adopted on October 26, 1982, by the Executive Directors
of the Association, the Association, acting as Administrator, has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies, equivalent to nine million four 'hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,400,000) on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Special Fund Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS (C) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and HASYMA, part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement and
part of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit provided for
under the Special Fund Credit Agreement will be made available to
RASYMA on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS HASYMA, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement and the Special
Fund Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
term FOFIFA means the Centre National de Recherche Appliquee pour
le Developpement Rural.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) HASYMA shall carry out Parts A through I
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
agricultural practices.
(b)   By June 30, 1984, HASYMA shall, for the purposes of
carrying out Part E of the Project, submit to the Association for
comment a proposal for the program to be executed by FOFIFA.
(c)   By  September 30, 1984, HASYMA shall finalize the
program referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section; such
program to reflect the Association's comment.
(d)   By June 30, 1984 HASYMA shall, for the purposes of
carrying out Part H of the Project, submit to the Association for
comment a proposal for the monitoring and evaluation program.
(e) By September 30, 1984 HASYMA shall finalize the program
referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section; such program to
reflect the Association's comment.
Section 2.02. In order to assist HASYMA in carrying out
Parts C, E and F of the Project, HASYMA shall employ two agricul-
tural managers, a ginnery specialist, a financial management
specialist, and an agriculturalist whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World


﻿- 3 -
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall othewise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Special Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) HASYMA undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Fund
Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by HASYMA
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) HASYMA shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Fund Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) HASYMA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Parts A through I of the Project, and any material nodifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   HASYMA shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through I
of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be
derived from them), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Fund Credit,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's   representatives  to   visit  the   facilities  and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special
Fund Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at six months intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing Parts A through I of the Project, their cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the expendi-
tures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿(c)   Upon the award by HASYMA of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Special Fund Credit, the Association may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d)  HASYMA shall fully cooperate with the Borrower in the
preparation of the report to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant
to Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section
3.06 of the Special Fund Credit Agreement.
(e)  HASYMA shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of HASYMA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. HASYMA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, HASYMA shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. By June 30, 1984, HASYMA shall appoint a
training coordinator to assist the General Manager of HASYMA in
the implementation of the training program included in Part G of
the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) By April 30 in each year during execution
of  the  Project, RASYMA    shall  prepare  and  furnish  to   the
Association for comment the proposed annual work program of
HASYMA containing the information required in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association to comment within two months
after receipt of the proposed annual work program.
(b)   By December 15 in each year during execution of the
Project, HASYMA shall furnish to the Association an annual work
program satisfactory to the Association for the next following
year.
Section 2.09. (a) HASYMA shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Parts A through I of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan


﻿- 5 -
Agreement, other matters relating to the purposes of the Cradit
and the Special Fund Credit and its capital and operating
budgets.
(b)   HASYMA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A through I of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit and the Special Fund Credit,-or the
performance by HASYMA of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. HASYMA shall, during execution of the Project,
sell all farm inputs to cotton farmers in the Project Area for a
price covering the full cost to HASYMA regarding such inputs,
including costs related to internal transport, storage and
storage losses, and operating costs of HASYMA incurred regarding
such inputs.
Section 2.11. HASYMA shall deposit all funds received from
the sale of agricultural inputs financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Special Fund Credit under Part D of the
Project into a separate account in a commercial bank acceptable
to the Association; the proceeds of such account shall be used by
HASYMA for the financing of rehabilitation and maintenance of
cotton tracks or for such other purposes as the Borrower and the
Association may agree.
Section 2.12. HASYMA shall deposit all funds received from
the sale of equipment and vehicles financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Special Fund Credit into a special reserved
fund in the BANKIN'NY TANTSAHA MPAMOKATRA (BTM); such funds to be
used. in accordance with the provisions of the agreement referred
to in Section 5.01 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of HASYMA
Section 3.01. HASYMA shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. HASYMA shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and technical practices.


﻿- 6
Section 3.03. HASYMA shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. HASYMA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account and the Special Fund Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section 4.02. HASYMA shall:
(a)   have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit and the
Special Fund Credit made available to it and withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the Special Fund Credit Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and
(c)  furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, HASYMA shall not, during execution of the Project, declare


﻿-7-
or pay any dividend or make any other distribution with respect
to its share capital, unless, after such dividend has been paid
or other distribution has been made, the aggregate principal
amount of debt of HASYMA then outstanding would not exceed 2.33
times the equity of HASYMA. Any such distribution shall not
exceed 25% of the net income of HASYMA in any given year.
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of HASYMA matur-
ing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(b) The term "equity of HASYMA" means the sum of the paid-
in share capital, retained earnings, reserves of HASYMA and
capital grants made by the Borrower to HASYMA, excluding any sums
received and deposited by HASYMA under Section 2.11 of this
Agreement.
(c)   the term "net income" means gross revenues from all
sources related to HASYMA's operations less all expenses of
HASYMA   related  thereto,   including  administration,   adequate
maintenance and taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, provision
for depreciation on a basis satisfactory to the Association, and
payments of interest and other charges on debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of HASYMk thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
HASYMA of this event.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
A2TICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For HASYMA:
Hasy Malagasy
Botte Postale 692
Antananarivo
Cable address:                    Telex:
HASYMA                          22224 MG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of HASYMA may be taken or executed by the


﻿-9-
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and HASYMA shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting on its own behalf and as
ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Fund
established with funds contributed
by certain members of the International
Development Association
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
HASY MALAGASY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of the Special Fund Credit Agreement and except as pro-
vided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines. The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall be
stated in the tender or prequalification documents for the pro-
curement of such goods.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graph 1.2 of the Guidelines, HASYMA shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender relating thereto, a general procurement -notice,
in such form and detail and containing such information as the
Association  shall   reasonably  request;  the   Association  will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. HASYMA shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shal- be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar   taxes   levied   in   connection   with   the  sale   or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Madagascar may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group   A: bids   offering  goods  manufactured   in
Madagascar if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of HASYMA and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Madagascar equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the .imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of          -7!q
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the aimcur,.
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exe7.pt impure:
would have to pay for the importation of the goob offrered.


﻿- 12 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment, vehicles and fertilizers estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent but more than $20,000
equivalent may be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less
than $20,000 equivalent and ferries may be procured by local
shopping.
3.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured on the basis of
local   competitive  bidding   procedures   satisfactory   to  the
Association.
4.     In the cases where there is only one manufacturer of a
pesticide, pesticides may be procured directly from it.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estiyMated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)  Before bids are invited, HASYMA shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, HASYMA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the


﻿- 13 -
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
HASYMA and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Special Fund
Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), HASYMA shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account or the Special Fund Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform HASYMA and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, HUSYMA shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform HASYMA and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Annual Work Program
Each annual work program shall set forth all activities to
be carried out by RASYMA under the Project during that year:
Each annual work program shall include:
(i) the proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on civil works,
vehicle and equipment) for Parts A through I of the
Project; and, for Part A.1 of the Project, a list of
farmers proposed as beneficiaries, a list of equipment
that each such farmer has agreed to purchase, and
confirmation from each such farmer of the proposed pro-
duction program over at least the expected life of the
equipment;
(ii) the proposed expenditures on salaries, materials, fuel,
repairs and maintenance;
(iii) proposals for purchase of inputs;
(iv) detailed financial projections for the year under con-
sideration and an estimate of the financing require-
ments from each source, including a projection of the
net funds required, if any, from the Borrower's invest-
ment budget, a forecast of the foreign exchange alloca-
tion required and a list of expenditures eligible for
reimbursement out of the proceeds of the Credit or the
Special Fund Credit and proposed allocation of funds by
categories;
(v) detailed proposals for seed cotton and fiber prices for
the year under consideration;
(vi) a list of technical assistance personnel whose salaries
would be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Special Fund Credit, proposed terms of reference
for new staff or any changes in terms of reference;
(vii) a list of proposed short-term consultancies;
(viii) a detailed and costed training program;


﻿- 15 -
(ix) procurement proposals for items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Special Fund Credit;
(x) detailed proposals for the road component and proposed
disbursements from the account referred to in Section
2.11 of this Agreement;
(xi) the proposed monitoring and evaluation work program;
(xii) list of new areas to be cultivated and confirmation
that such areas have been made available to farmers.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


