FILE  COPY                           RESTRICTED
Report No.  PTR-92a
This report is fot official use only by the Bank Group and specificqlly authorized organizations
of pesons ft nay not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibilit for the accuracy or completens of the report.
INTENATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KENYA
December 6, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  =  Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
K Sh 1         =  US$0.14
US$1.00        -  K Sh 7.14
K Sh 1,000     =  US$140
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US equivalents
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2   = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)               =  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
= 0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)           -  2.200 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2,204 pounds (lbs)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB   - African Development Bank
EARC  - East African Railways Corporation
MOW   - Ministry of Works
NYS   - National Youth Service
GDP   - gross domestic product
vpd   -  vehicles per day



APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KENYA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .I.........................i
1.   I2NTRODUCTION .        ..................................          1
2.   BACKGROUND ......................... ,                             3
A. Economic Setting.                                              3
B. The Transport Sector.                                          4
C.  Transport Policy and Coordination                             4
3. THE HIGHW4AY SECTOR.                                                 6
A.  The Road Network .............................                6
B.  Traffic Growth and Characteristics.                           6
C. Administration            ..                                   7
D. Maintenance                      ..7
E. Planning and Financing           .         .                   8
F. Engineering.                                                   9
G. Construction ..                                                9
4.  THE PROJECT.............                          .......          10
A. Description             .................                     10
- Trunk Roads ...............................             10
- Feeder Roads   .                 .11
- Tea Roads   . .12
- Settlement Roads   .               .12
- Installation of Vehicle Weighing
Stations  . .13
- Consultants' Services   .             .13
B. Execution   ..14
C. Cost Estimate    ..15
D. Financing and Disbursements   .              .16
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .                                               17
A. General   . .17
B. Trunk Roads   ..17
C. Feeder Roads.                                                 18
D. Tea Roads   .                      .18
E. Settlement Roads    ..19
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. Cooke (Engineer) and I. E. Smith
(Economist), and by Miss J. Murphy (Editor).



-2-
Page No.
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............        20
TABLES:   1 - Road Network
2 - Estimated Number of Motor Vehicles
3 - Central Government Revenues from Road Users
4 - Central Government Expenditures on Highways
5 - Highway Design Standards adopted by MOW
6 - Details of Construction under Project
7 - Equipment for Construction of Settlement Roads
8 - Project Cost Estimates
9 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAPS:     1 - Kenya:  Main Highway Network
2 - Kenya: Western Area
3 - Kenya: Central Area
4 - Kenya: Eastern Area



APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KENYA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Kenya's high rate of economic growth in recent years has placed a
heavy demand on the transport sector, particularly on the road network.
Agriculture, which accounts for 37% of the gross domestic product, and
tourism, which now earns more foreign exchange than any single export com-
modity, require a reliable and efficient system of all weather roads. Sub-
stantial investment, assisted by seven Bank Group loans and credits, has
been directed toward the improvement and extension of roads in the principal
agricultural and tourist areas, but some parts of the system are still in-
adequate for current and foreseeable transport demand. Under the project,
the standard of selected roads, ranging from sections of the principal
Nairobi-Mombasa trunk route to minor farm access roads, will be improved to
provide for increasing traffic volumes. The resulting reductions in trans-
port costs or avoidance of future increases in costs should serve to encourage
economic development.
ii.       The first major effort to improve the highway system began as late
as 1959. Since then the Government has followed a generally sound policy of
stage construction, designing roads which were adequate for traffic needs
over the next few years, but which called for successive strengthening and
improvement as traffic volumes increased. For several years, this policy
was frustrated by a progressive increase in the size of vehicles and the
lax enforcement of weight restrictions, which resulted in axle loadings in
excess of those for which the roads were designed and the consequent failure
of important sections of certain trunk roads. The principal road from
Mombasa through Nairobi to the Uganda border is a notable example. Trunk
and feeder roads improved with Bank Group assistance, however, have proved
satisfactory even where traffic flows have exceeded original forecasts.
Since 1968, the enforcement of road transport regulations has improved,
and measures have been adopted to achieve a rational distribution of traffic
between road and rail. In addition, a Bank Group-assisted highway maintenance
project is being implemented which should eliminate the progressive deterio-
ration of the highway system resulting from neglect and inadequate maintenance.
Conditions are, therefore, appropriate for a concentration of resources on
the improvement and upgrading of selected sub-standard roads or road sections.
iii.      The project which reflects this objective, includes the reconstruc-
tion, construction or improvement of three trunk road sections totalling 71
km, five feeder roads totalling 158 km, 995 km of tea collection roads, and
429 km of access roads in settlement areas, as well as the installation of
two vehicle weighing stations. Consultants will be employed where necessary
to complete the engineering and to supervise construction of the works.
Many of the trunk and feeder roads are either extensions of roads constructed
under earlier projects or the next step in a program of stage construction,
and the tea and settlement roads are continuations of agricultural road
development programs begun under earlier Bank Group projects.



- ii -
iv.       The cost of the project is estimated at US$42 million equivalent.
The Government has requested credits from IDA and Sweden to finance the for-
eign exchange component estimated at US$28 million, or 67% of the total cost.
Estimated economic rates of return on the individual project items range from
12% to nearly 30%, yielding an average return on the project as a whole of
nearly 19%.
v.        Major civil works under the project will be executed by contracts
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines; improvements to settlement roads will be carried out by Ministry
of Works construction units, utilizing National Youth Service labor.
vi.       Execution of earlier road projects has been satisfactory.  They
have brought a wide range of benefits to agriculture, tourism and the
general economy.
vii.      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$22.0 million equivalent and a Swedish credlit of SKr 31 millioln (about
US$6.0 million equivalent) to the Covernment of Kenya.



APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KENYA
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The project will be the Bank Group's eighth lending operation in
Kenya for road development. Past projects concerned wholly or in part with
roads are the following:
Amount                             Approximate        Status
Year  Loan/Credit  (US$ million)       Purpose              Length        (% complete)
(km)
1960  Loan 256-KE      5.6         Agricultural develop-
ment including feeder
road construction          910            100%
1964  Credit 70-KE      4.5        Trunk road engineering,
improvement and con-
struction                  315            100%
1965  Credit 77-KE     3.0         Tea road improvement    1,440             100%
1967  Credit 104-KE    5.3         Sugar road engineering
and construction           820            100%
1968  Credit 120-KE   10.7         a) Trunk road recon-          )
struction               460)          100%
b) Feeder road engi-          )
neering                 425)
1969  Loan 639-KE     23.5         a) Trunk and feeder road      )
reconstruction          605)
b) Sugar road construc-       )
tion                    355)           50%
c) Road improvement in        )
settlement areas        590)
d) Study of MOW organi-       )
zation                   - )
1970  Credit 224-KE   12.6         Strengthening and im-
provement of highway
maintenance                                 5%
Execution of work under these projects and the performance of the Ministry of
Works (MOW) as executing agency have been satisfactory. The seven road
projects which the Bank Group has financed in Kenya over the past decade
have brought a wide range of benefits to agriculture, tourism and the general



-2-
economy. Traffic growth has generally exceeded forecasts, yielding benefits
higher than those originally anticipated. The projects included the
upgrading of all classes of roads throughout the country, thus the benefits
of the Bank Group road operations have been widely dispersed throughout the
economy. The agricultural sector has been a prime beneficiary. For exam-
ple, Credit 77-KE for tea road improvement provided the infrastructure that
not only facilitated the execution of the smallholder tea scheme financed
under Credit 64-KE, but it stimulated increased agricultural production of a
wide range of crop in areas that were once mostly forest. Similarly, Credit
104-KE provided the road network needed to move sugar cane to the factory
and the refined product to market.
1.02      The Government has now requested credits from IDA and Sweden to
help finance a project consisting of the construction, reconstruction or im-
provement of about 1,650 km of various types of roads (including trunk roads,
feeder roads, tea collection roads and access roads in settlement areas) and
the construction and equipment of two vehicle weighing stations. The cost
of the project is estimated at US$42 million equivalent; the IDA and Swedish
credits will cover the foreign exchange component, estimated at US$28 million
or 67% of total costs.
1.03      The present project represents the next logical step in the Bank
Group's participation in the development of the road system. Several of the
trunk and feeder roads included in the project are either extensions of roads
constructed under past projects or the next step in a program of stage con-
struction while many of the agricultural roads to be constructed or improved
make up the next phase in development schemes initiated under past projects.
For example, the construction or improvement of tea roads is part of a long-
term tea development program which has been given considerable support by the
Bank Group. The first group of tea roads were built under Credit 77-KE and
are presently being gravelled utilizing surplus funds from an agricultural
credit (64-KE) for smallholder tea development. The tea roads to be included
in the present project were identified in a recent study by the British con-
sultants, Scott, Wilson and Kirkpatrick. Again, the construction or improve-
ment of roads in settlement areas represents the second phase of a program
of road improvement identified by the British consultants, Sir Alexander
Gibb and Partners, in a study carried out in 1967-68, the first phase of
which is being financed under Loan 639-KE. The project is consonant with the
aims of Kenya's national development plan, the primary purpose of which is
to provide the infrastructure required for agricultural development gener-
ally and for high priority agricultural projects specifically. The project's
varied content reflects the broad nature of road development which the plan
requires.
1.04      Other loans for transportation include two (110-EA of US$24.0
million in 1955 and 428-EA of US$38.0 million in 1965) to the former East
African Common Services Authority for the provision of equipment and
facilities operated by the former East African Railways and Harbours Admini-
stration. Also, in 1969 a Bank loan of US$35.0 million (638-EA) was made to
the newly created East African Harbours Corporation and in 1970, a loan



-3-
of US$42.4 million (674-EA) was made to the new East African Railways
Corporation (EARC). Execution of these projects, although somewhat Blow in
starting, is proceeding satisfactorily. In addition, a Bank Group project
for the expansion of Nairobi Airport is under consideration.
1.05      This report is based on the studies mentioned above, on the work of
the Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa which assisted the Government in
preparing the project, and on the findings of a mission comprising Messrs.
W. H. Cooke (Engineer) and I.E. Smith (Economist) which visited the country
in March 1971. The report was edited by Miss J. Murphy.
2. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      The Republic of Kenya (Map 1) covers an area of 583,000 km  which
is about the same size as France. It lies on the equator, but variations
in altitude provide a wide range of climatic conditions often rendering road
maintenance difficult. More than half the country, in the north and east,
is arid and sparsely populated with few transport communications. The most
attractive areas for settlement are along the coast and in the highlands in
the southwest between Mount Kenya and Lake Victoria, where over half the total
population of eleven million lives in one-fifth of the country's total area.
This pattern of settlement is reflected in the transport network, with the
main rail line and trunk road system and a subsidiary system of branch lines
and secondary and minor roads serving these areas.
2.02      Gross domestic product (GDP) has recently been growing by about
6.7%. p.a. Despite a population growtlh of 3% p.a., per capita income has been
rising at a relatively fast rate, and in 1970, amounted to about US$140.
2.03      The economy is largely based on agriculture, which provides about
37% of the GDP, with subsistence farming contributing nearly 60% of agri-
cultural value added. Coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum, meat and other agri-
cultural products provide about three-quarters of total exports to countries
outside the East African Community (Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda). The manu-
facturing industry has been expanding rapidly in recent years; industrial
exports to countries outside the Community are still quite small, but they
account for three-quarters of total sales to Uganda and Tanzania, and are
responsible for the large trade surplus earned by Kenya within the Community.
Another industry of growing importance is tourism, which, since 1968, has
been earning more foreign exchange than any single export commodity. Since
independence in 1963, the number of visitors on holiday has increased by
about 20% p.a., reaching more than 170,000 by 1970.



-4-
B. The Transport Sector
2.04      The heaviest concentration of inland transport facilities and traffic
is on the 1,000-km route from the port of Mombasa to Kenya's western border
with Uganda, passing through Nairobi and the populous southwestern area of
the country. The route is served by road, rail and air services. For im-
ports and exports through Mombasa, and indeed for othier long-distance bulk
movements, the railway is the most important carrier, providing the principal
outlet to the sea for both Kenya and Uganda as well as for Rwanda. The
main railway line from Uganda to Mombasa, together with subsidiary lines
feeding into it, account for some 1,600 km of the total 6,000 km system of
the EARC which is jointly owned by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.
2.05      The country is served by a 44,200 km road network, described in
detail in Chapter 3. While the network has been substantially upgraded
over the last decade, the continued growth of the economy, particularly in
the agricultural sector, will require the construction and improvement of a
number of roads serving rural areas.
2.06      The East African Airways Corporation, also owned jointly by the
three countries which make up the East African Community, operates inter-
national services to West Europe, West Africa, the Middle and Far East,
and to neighboring countries, as well as internal services. A number of
major airlines call at Nairobi Airport, which is the principal international
airport in East Africa. Passenger traffic increased by about 13% p.a. during
the past decade, but movements of both passengers and freight by air within
Kenya are still relatively insignificant.
C. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.07      Transport policy and coordination matters are complicated by Kenya's
membership in the Community. Railways, harbors and airways are administered
by separate Community corporations as common services for Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda. The highways and road transport remain the exclusive concern of
the national Governments. In Kenya, the MOW is responsible for providing
and maintaining the highway system, with the Ministry of Power and Communications
controlling and regulating the road transport industry. The Ministry of
Power and Communications has the task of coordinating the plans and activities
of the national and Community transport entities in accordance with general
economic and financial principles laid down by the Ministry of Finance and
the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development. These two ministries were
recently combined into a single Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning to
improve coordination of development planning.
2.08      The difficulties of transport coordination have been most evident
in the area of road-rail competition. The development of the economy has
been heavily dependent on the railway and, from an early stage, a policy of
encouraging agricultural production for export by means of a differential
rail tariff was followed. The differential tariff was based on the value



- 5 -
rather than the transport cost of shipments, extending low rates to agri-
cultural produce and charging correspondingly higher rates for higher value
imported manufactures and materials. In order to protect this tariff
structure against the effects of road competition, strict quantitative and
operational restrictions were imposed on road transport. Nonetheless,
improvements to the highway system, the increasing efficiency of road trans-
port and lax enforcement of the regulations resulted in an increasing diver-
sion of traffic from rail to road. Because much of this diversion was caused
by road transport operators undercutting the rates on the railways' high
rated traffic, which the railway administration was powerless to change with-
out reference to the Community, a pattern of distribution emerged bearing
little relationship to comparative transport costs. A notable example was
petroleum for which rail has a marked cost advantage but which road trans-
porters were able to attract by virtue of the high rail tariff. Several
revisions to the rail tariff rates to counter the effects of growing road
competition, and an improved enforcement of road transport regulations
served to retard this trend, but the principle of a rigid discriminatory
tariff was retained. The continuing decline in the railway's operating
surplus focused attention on this problem.
2.09      These questions of transport policy and coordination were examined
in 1968 and 1969 under the East Africa Transport Study financed by the United
Nations Development Programme with the Bank as executing agency. The
British consultants, The Economist Intelligence Unit, concluded that an
efficient usage of transport resources in Kenya, Tanzania end Uganda with
a rational distribution of traffic among modes could best be achieved by the
phased implementation of three principal measures:
L)   the abandonment of the discriminatory principle underlying
the differential tariff and the accordirtg of greater authcrity
to the railway to vary its rates in order to allow it greater
commercial flexibility in meeting road competiti.on;
ii)   the abolition of all quantitative and operational restrictions
on road transport, and
iii)   the withdrawal of the obligation imposed on the railway to cross-
subsidize unremunerative services, and the closure (or state sub-
sidization) of existing uneconomic services or sections.
General guidelines for future transport investment were also laid dowm,
stressing the need for the railway to consolidatc itrs competitive advantage
in the conveyance of long-distance, bulk consignments, leaving to road
transport, with its inherent operation&l flexib'l.ity, the dcvelopment role
forrerly assumed by thc railway.  The consultants estlmated that the economic
iosn ror all three countries, but prIncipally for Ken-a. resulting from the
Anefficient dtstribiition of traffic between rail' and rrad. -c0tld rise from
about 1TIS5$7 million irn 1967 to US83.4 million in 19F8 ard would rapidly
approach US$30.0 million if controls on entrv irto road transport were
completely removed while the rail tariff remained unchpnged.



- 6 -
2.10      The Government shares tre broad conclusions of the study, and has
accepted the principal recommendations. In agreement with the Bank, under
the terms of Loan 674-EA to the LARC, the first steps have been taken
towards a fundamental modificatior of the rail tariff, bringing rates more
closely in line with the costs rather than the value of service to shippers.
A study of uneconoilc lines and services is included in the railway loan.
No action for the liberalization uf road transport is proposed until such
time as the railway has achie.ved 8 flexIble, cost-based tariff that will
rationalize its competitive reli!tionship with- road transport.
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Road Network (see m4aps 1-4)
3.01      Effective January 1, 1970, the MOW instituted a new classification
system for its road network, based on economic importance and traffic. Under
the new classification tle network is made up of approximately 22,500 km of
trunk, primary and secontdary roads, 19,000 km of minor roads and 2,700 km of
special purpose roads suct as those serving tourist, tea collection, and
sugar areas (Table 1). Although the length of paved rcads has tripled in
the last decade, totalling about 3,000 km in 1971, almost half of the network
consists of unimproved roads or tracks, and many of the gravel and earth
roads serving key agricultural and tourist areas do not: provide all weather
service.
B.   Traffic Growth and Characteristics
3.02      Traffic data are collected through an officieal census taken at 60
points established throughout the road system, and mechanical traffic counts
are taken regularly on the most important and heavily t;rafficked roads. These
have been supplemented by traffic data collected for various studies and ad
hoc counts for special purposes such as the current credit application.
Traffic varies from a few vehicles per day on minor roads to about 3,500
vehicles per day on roads radiating from Nairobi. On the network as a whole,
traffic has been growing at an estimated average annual rate of 5% since the
mid-1960's. The MOW estimates, however, that on the trunk roads, which rep-
resent only about 12% of the system but account for about 70% of total vehi-
cle-kilometers, traffic growth has exceeded 20% in some cases over the last
three years. This rapid growth, together with the heavrier axle loadings
which have become commonplace on many routes, has put a great strain on
some trunk roads built a number of years ago for lighter loads than the
present 8,000 kg axle limit (para. 3.12). The Government is gradually bring-
ing these roads up to standard, and the project will assist in this endeavor.
3.03      Over the past decade, the vehicle fleet has grown at an average an-
nual rate of about 5% (see Table 2). In 1970, about 52% of the vehicles were
estimated to be passenger cars and 34% light trucks and buses. The number of
heavy trucks (8% of the fleet) has scarcely grown, but their average size has



- 7 -
increased steadily with trucks of 5 ton or more capacity accounting for about
50% of the total fleet in 1970, contrasting with less than 33% in 1961. The
total carrying capacity of the fleet has increased by about 4% over this
period. In recent years, trucks with capacities of 30 tons and more, and
with loads of well over the 8,000 kg axle limit, appeared in significant
numbers on the Mombasa-Nairobi road and, to a lesser extent, on other trunk
roads. The condition of these roads, not built to handle such heavy loads,
began to suffer. The Government was required under previous Bank/IDA pro-
jects to maintain the road system adequately and to restrict axle-loads and
overloading of vehicles. In February 1969, after the gravity of the situation
had been impressed upon the Government by the Bank Group, repairs were made
and the Government increased its efforts to enforce the Traffic Rules. During
the negotiations for Loan 639-KE in 1969, the Government gave further assur-
ances that these regulations would be rigorously enforced and has taken steps
in that direction (para. 4.16).
3.04      The MOW and the Kenya Police have drawn up a sound, long-term plan
to establish an effective highway traffic law enforcement agency. This
plan 1/ calls for the installation of permanent weighing stations and the
establishment of special highway patrols to facilitate enforcement of the
regulations. Two weighbridges will be installed under the project (para.
4.16). While some progress has been made in equipping the highway patrols,
the Government has not given the scheme the financial support necessary to
assure its success. During negotiations, the Government agreed to submit
to the Association a revised and updated version of the above plan within
four months of signature of the Credit Agreement, and to implement it in
accordance with a timetable to be agreed between Kenya and the Association.
C. Administration
3.05      The Government delegates responsibility for administration, con-
struction and maintenance of the highway system to the MOW. The MOW has
several departments (Roads, Materials, Structures, Electrical, Mechanical,
etc.), all reporting to the Engineer-in-Chief, who is the senior technical
officer of the Ministry. Formerly there was some overlapping of executive
functions which militated against efficiency but under a recent reorgani-
zation (para. 3.06), the Chief Engineer Roads, as head of the Roads Depart-
ment, has been given executive responsibility over all functions pertaining
to highways, including the maintenance and repair of equipment.
D. Maintenance
3.06      The Government is obligated under previous Bank/IDA projects to
maintain the public roads system adequately. In 1968, maintenance of the
network was found to be deteriorating, largely because the organization
for road maintenance was no longer adequate. A study was undertaken as
1/  MOW, "Enforcement of the Kenya Traffic Act," Cap. 403-Vehicle Limits,
March 1970.



- 8 -
part of the Third Hlighway Project (Loan 639-KE) which recommended reorgani-
zation of the MOW, an extensive training program, and provision of new
maintenance equipment. Under the new organization which was adopted in
January 1970, the MOW has ;Qll responsibility for about 22,500 km of trunk,
primary and secondary roads, 2,700 km of special roads and 6,000 km of minor
roads. The maintenance of roads in the larger urban areas is delegated by
the MOW to the local authorities who receive supporting grants-in-aid.
Only about 13,000 km of minor roads now remain the sole responsibility of
rural local authorities.
3.07      In response to the findings of the maintenance study, the Govern-
ment has undertaken an extensive highway maintenance project with the
financial assistance of the Bank Group (Credit 224-KE). Under the project,
the staff of the Roads Department is being strengthened to assure successful
implementation of the reorganization, maintenance equipment and workshops
are being provided, and equipment operators and mechanics are being trained.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
E. Planning and Financing
3.08      The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, working closely with
the MOW, prepares investment plans for the highway sector. The Second
Development Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74) presently allocates K Sh 860 million
for capital investment in roads. This figure represents a sizeable increase
over development expenditures on road construction during the previous
five years which amounted to only K Sh 380 million. The MOW estimates,
however, that as much as K Sh 1,280 million will be required to carry out the
proposed program because of increased construction costs and of the necessity
to build roads to higher standards. Road construction is therefore likely
to account for about 30% of total planned public sector development expendi-
tures financed by the Central Government. In view of the large demands
on investment resources necessary for roads, a recent economic mission to
Kenya (Report No. AE/16-Vol II) recommended that a preinvestment study be
carried out to determine, for the 1974/75-1978/79 development plan period,
(i) road priorities, and (ii) appropriate standards and specifications for
road construction.
3.09      Formerly, capital investments in highways were financed exclusively
from budgetary sources, supplemented by contractor finance. Since independ-
ence in 1963, increasing amounts have become available from bilateral and
international lending agencies. At the present time the Government envisages
the financing of the foreign component of highway investments under the
Second Development Plan from the following sources: IBRD/IDA 39%, Federal
Republic of Germany 6%, Sweden 5%, Italy 5%, African Development Bank (ADB)
4%, USA/ADB 2% and Norway 2%. The balance of 37% has not yet been programmed.
3.10      Although Kenya does not earmark revenues from road users for high-
way construction and maintenance, it is interesting to note that revenues
(Table 3) stemming from licenses, taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel, and
import duties increased at an average of 13% per annum between 1959/60 and



1968/69 to US$36.4 million compared with a corresponding 15% increase to
US$23.3 million for expenditures on roads (Table 4). Road user charges
thus cover all highway expenditures and provide a substantial source of
general revenue to the Government.
F.   Engineering
3.11      MOW policy is to use its own staff wherever possible to design
roads, and, in the past, the Ministry was able to carry out a substant:ial
volume of work. At present, however, due to the shortage of engineering
staff, particularly in the middle grades, most of the work is carried out
by consultants, of which there are a number of international firms having
offices in Nairobi. The Government has formulated a long term plan to
produce more graduate engineers and as they become available, the in-house
design work will be increased to provide more professional training oppor-
tunities to Kenyan staff.
3.12      While the Ministry now follows a generally sound policy of stage
construction, geometric and pavement design standards adopted for projects
carried out by the Ministry in early years were, for financial reasons, on
the low side. A number of these pavements (mostly contractor or bilateral
financed) are now breaking up and are in urgent need of reconstruction. New
sets of standards (Table 5) have recently been drawn up which allow progres-
sive stage construction by providing for increasing traffic and heavier wheel
loads with incremental increases in the thickness of the bituminous overlay.
G.   Construction
3.13      Highway construction is carried out, for the most part, by con-
tract. The contracting industry in Kenya has grown considerably in recent
years, and major works have been awarded both to large local firms and to
foreign firms with branches in Kenya. Smaller works, notably isolated bridge
construction and gravelling contracts, have generally been awarded to smaller
local contractors. Contract work is on a unit price basis, major contracts
being awarded after international competitive bidding, while small contracts
are awarded after local competitive bidding. Qualification and bidding pro-
cedures of the MOW, its handling of contracts and its dealings with contrac-
tors are satisfactory.
3.14      For non-contract work, the MOW utilizes its own construction units,
recently employing, as well, labor from the National Youth Service (NYS) which
was created to provide training and employment for youths who have left school.
These units have carried out a considerable amount of work in the past, and
are currently engaged on the construction of the road to Ethiopia north of
Isiolo and some trunk and feeder road work in the vicinity of Voi (Coast
Province). Formerly they suffered from many of the defects frequently met
in departmental work, such as a lack of realistic costing and a lower stan-
dard of workmanship than that normally required of contractors. Work under
this project, as with that under Credit 639-KE, will be supervised and costed
by consultants (see para. 4.17).



- 10 -
4. TEf PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project comprises the following:
(a) construction, reconstruction or improvement of -
(i) three trunk road sections totalling 71 kIn;
(ii)  five feeder roads totalling 158 km;
(iii) 995 Ikm of tea collection roads;
(iv) 429 km of access roads in settlement areas;
(b)  the construction and equipment of two vehicle
weighing stations; and
(c) completion of engineering and supervision of construction
of some of the above works by consultants.
Trunk Roads (Table 6: Items 1-3)
4.02      The project includes the reconstruction of three sections of trunk
road. These road sections were constructed without Bank Group assistance
during the 1960's to a light pavement standard which was adequate for traffic
at the time.  Under current traffic weights and volumes, however, they are
rapidly breaking up and must be given heavy duty pavements if higher transport
costs are to be avoided.  The work proposed generally consists of recondition-
ing the existing cement stabilized base for use as sub-base, providing a new
crushed stone base course and finishing off with an asphalt carpet.  At the
same time, the opportunity will be taken to make local improvements in the
geometric design of one section.
4.03      Two sections of the Nairobi-Mombasa road, the main trunk road of
the country, are included in the project. Three other sections of this im-
portant road have recently been reconstructed, one with financing under Loan
639-KE. The first section proposed for reconstruction under the present pro-
ject is 14 kma in length from Nairobi (Embakasi) Airport Turnoff to the Athi
River, including the junction with the Namanga road to Tanzania (see Map 3).
Current traffic is about 2,000 vpd of which 40% are heavy vehicles; the
latter are increasing at the rate of 17% per annum. The existing pavement
was designed for 3,000 kg wheel loads and parts of it have failed completely
and are in a dangerous condition. Provision is made in the design for future
improvement to dual carriageway standard with a grade separated intersection
with the Namanga road, but only one carriageway 7.0 meters wide will be
built under this project. The second section proposed is 25 km in length
from Ulu to Sultan Hamud and includes a long climb up the Ulu escarpment.
The condition of the existing pavement is not in such an advanced state of
deterioration as the first section, but due to the long gradient and sharp
curves, continued repairs have a serious delaying effect on traffic. Both
sections will be designed for a 5,500 kg wheel load.



- 11 -
4.04      The Waa-Msambweni road (32 km) is a section of the coastal trunk
road from Mombasa to Tanzania via Lungalunga (see Map 4). The section between
Msambweni and the border was recently completed under Credit 120-KE. From
Waa to Msambweni the existing pavement is only 3 m wide and in poor structural
condition. With the increase in traffic which is expected to be diverted to
the new road, this section will deteriorate rapidly. Complete reconstruction
is proposed with bituminous surfacing to the same standard (4,000 kg wheel
load) as the recently completed section.
Feeder Roads (Table 6: Items 4-8)
4.05      Feeder roads are those which provide access to and between trunk
roads. The feeder roads selected for reconstruction under the project
link rich agricultural areas with the trunk road network. Traffic on the
roads selected has grown rapidly and paving at this time is warranted.
Three of the roads were engineered and gravelled under previous Bank Group
projects and the current paving program represents the next phase in their
stage construction.
4.06      The Mazeras-Kaloleni road (22 km) is near the coast, in a rich
agricultural area which supplies much of the agricultural needs of the city
and port of Mombasa (see Map 4). During recent years the area served by the
road has become a dormitory for the city and traffic growth has been unusually
high. The existing road has deteriorated into a low grade earth road and it
will be reconstructed and paved on an improved alignment.
4.07      The Nanyuki-Timau road (22 km) passes through a highly productive
cattle ranching and wheat growing area north of Mount Kenya, and forms an
important link in the north-south road communication system (see Map 3). An
adjoining section, Timau-Meru, was paved recently under Credit 120-KE. The
existing road was built with a bituminous surface to a low geometric standard
about 30 years ago, and due to heavy traffic increases has now deteriorated
to a low standard gravel road. The road will be reconstructed on a new and
improved alignment.
4.08      The Sotik-Kisii road (43 km) and the Kapsabet-Chavakali road (48 km)
serve highly productive agricultural and tea growing areas in the western
provinces (see Map 2). Some sections were constructed to gravel standard
under Loan 256-KE and Credit 70-KE. Due to the mountainous terrain, a re-
duced design speed was used to minimize earthworks. The alignment is adequate,
however, for the expected traffic during the next decade, and only minor im-
provements in road geometry wiLl be made.
4.09      The Teret-Church Hil:L road (23 km) serves a rich wheat growing
area to the west of the Rift Valley (see Map 2). The existing road is
currently being constructed to a gravel standard under Loan 639-KE but be-
cause the traffic growth rate has been higher than expected, the provision
of a bittuminous surface is now justified.  Maintenance costs of the gravel
surface will be reduced on the steep hill and savings on construction will
be effected by extending the existing contract at 1970 prices (see para.
4.19).



- 12 -
Tea Roads (Table 6:  Items 9-11)
4.10      The tea roads included in the project form part of a long-term tea
development program which was started in the late 1950's and included the
planting of tea and the construction of factories and roads. An agricultural
credit (64-KE) financed part of the program and under Credit 77-KE, a first
group of about 1,500 km of tea collection roads were constructed to low
standard. The tea project proved to be very successful and a great deal of
other activity was generated. Many of the earth roads proved to be inadequate
for the unexpectedly large volume of induced traffic which developed over the
next five years, and after heavy rains the roads became impassable. The
Government undertook an emergency gravelling program utilizing surplus funds
from Credit 64-KE.
4.11      Under the present project, an additional 995 km of tea collection
roads will be built to meet the needs of farmers allowed to plant a greater
proportion of tea and of the increased traffic due to general agricultural
development. The same low geometric standards will be used for these roads
as with the previous project, but all of them will be surfaced with gravel
and all grades over 12% will have a light bituminous surface. The general
layout of the roads is shown on the consultants' drawings which are too
voluminous to reproduce in this report; they are shown on Map 1 by area
generally. Since they will be engineered as construction proceeds (para.
4.17), it is desirable to allow the Government some flexibility in deter-
mining the final selection and route location.
Settlement Roads (Table 6: Items 12 and 13)
4.12      After independence the Government embarked on a large-scale settle-
ment operation to provide small land holdings by breaking up former large
estates. The settlement schemes are grouped in areas scattered over the
highlands of the country with the larger complexes in the Kinangop, Eldoret
and Sotik areas (Map 1). The success of many schemes depends on the ability
to move perishables, particularly milk, to factories and markets at all
times of the year, and the Government has embarked on a program of road
improvement to assure all-weather access between the farms and the main road
network.
4.13      The consultants, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (U.K.), who made
a study of required road improvements in the settlement areas, identified a
three phase program. The first phase roads (about 600 km) are those being
improved under Loan 639-KE. They are predominantly located in the Kinangop
area to the west of the Aberdare mountains. The second phase roads, to be
improved under the present project, are more scattered, but the bulk of work
will be in the Eldoret-Kitale-Broderick Falls triangle (Map 2).



- 13 
4.14      One road (Wanjohi-Geta settlement) in the Kinangop area (Map 3),
not originally included in the settlement scheme, has been added. Agricul-
tural and forest resources in the area are just beginning to be developed,
and the existing track is frequently impassable due to heavy rainf:..ll.  This
road is in the same general area as the first phase roads where the MOW
construction units are currently working, and a considerable cost saving
will be effected by constructing it before the units move to their next job.
The credit amount includes US$170,000 to finance this construction zetro-
actively.
4.15      With the exception of one particularly difficult 15 km road (Dundori
Summit-Kabazi), the settlement roads will, as in Loan 639-KE, be constructed
by departmental units (para. 4.20). A small amount of construction equipment
and spare parts (Table 7) will be provided under the project to complement
heavy equipment provided under the earlier project and to replace light equip-
ment, mainly trucks, which is nearing the end of its useful life.
Installation of Vehicle Weighing Stations
4.16      Under earlier Bank Group loan and credit agreements, the Government
undertook to enforce more effective control over vehicle weights, which at
one time threatened to do excessive damage to many of the trunk roads. The
Kenya Police, who are responsible for enforcement of the Vehicle Regulations,
were equipped with portable loadometers for checking vehicle weights. While
their use may have deterred some overloading, the loadometers were not
sufficiently reliable to be used as evidence in court in the event of a
prosecution. Ti is meant that before the police could prosecute, they had to
escort the suspect vehicle to a permanent weighing station, none of which
was convenientlv located.  hle Government now wishes to install two perman-
ent weighing stations on the Nairobi-Mombasa road as part of an overall
scheme to tir2hten enforcement of the Vehicle Regulations and the Traffic Law
in general. The proposal is fully supported, and under the project two
weighbridges will be installed, and access lanes and offices will be
constructed.
Consultants' Services
4.17      During negotiati-ns, the Government agreed that, except as Kenya
and the Associ;tion sinht otherise agree, consultants will be employed
unver the project to  omnDletc engineering and to supervise construction work,
incl1nding that done bh M1OW1 constluxction units. All. ;-roject roads lhave been
engineernd by consultnntn or the MIOW (see Table 6) and paid for out of
current funds.  For the  ow-*e-ost settlement and tea roads (Items 9-11,13),
hcsqever, orny preliminary engineering has been completed, since the high
_ost of xull engineerin.i, including working drawings and bills of quantities,
is not  sltlin  i. their rase.  Engineering of these roads will be carried
"ut u     thr the pxnject by site supervisory staff as construction proceeds.
Thi:7n propeduroe was followed for similar works carried out previously and was
:e;iun4 sati.-lfpctory.



- 14 -
B.  Execution
4.iS       tie MOW will be responsible for execution of the project and will
be assisted by con_uiltant3, acceptable to the Government and the Association,
for construction supervisi.emi as discussed in Dara. 4.17.
4.19      Reconstructioa of 12 (Table 6:  Itenig 1-12) of the 13 civil works
items will be by coritttc- .     -'aiii the benefit of existing unit prices, one
of these, that ror the Cuiuhch 'Hill road (Iten 8), will be negotiated as an
extension to the on-going contract wit)i the Israeli contractor, Water Resources
Developmenit, which was a-zarded after international competitive bidding under
Loan 639-KE for the e3rt'Aworics and gravelling of the same road.  The remaining
11 items will be divided into ten major contracts which will be awarded after
international competitive bidding int accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
4.20      Improvement of the svttleunent roads (Table 6:  Item 13) (with the
exception of the more d-'fficult Dundori SwUmit-Kabazi road) will be done by
the MOW construction units utilizing labor from the National Youth Service
(Mt`VS).  Utilization of the MOW/!NYS units will provide employment for about
700-f¶!UO young men.  Such units were specifically established to construct
the first phase settlement roads under Loant 639-KE in an effort to provide
training for unskilled youths and to relieve the unemployment problem through
labor intensive coxnstruction methods.  Initial administrative and organiza-
tional difficulties impeded output, but pro,r4ress has recently improved with
the introduction of doLlble work shifts and a ;ro>run of work incentives.
Output is llow up to targer and organizational difficulties have been overcome.
The capabilities of the MOW/NYS construction units, as evidenced by their
Pnost recent progress onl the first phase settlement roads, are now adequate
to undertake the improvement of additional settlement roads under the project.
The construction equipment, which amounts to less than 1% of total project
costs, will be procured under the contracts for highway maintenance equipment
awvarded after intern,ational competitive bidding under Credit 224-KE.
4.21      One weighing statiorn will be located in the vicinity of Mombasa
zmd will b_ installed by MOW constructionl units.  The second will be located
near Nairobi aud wifl be constructeu as part of contract for the Nairobi
AMrport Turnoff - Atlhi River Bridge road reconstruction.
4.22      The project is scheduled to be completed by early 1975.  The con-
struction works are programmed in such a way as to dovetail with the con-
struction work being carried out under Loan 639-KE, thereby providing
continuity for the contracting industry in Kenya. The MOW, recently reorgan-
ized and etre-igthelned under the highway maintenance project is capable of
undertaklTigv the additional workload with the assistance of consultants.



- 15 -
C.   Cost Estimate
4.23      The estimated cost of the project, shown in detail in Table 8, is
summarized below (in 1971 prices):
--- K Sh million ----  ---- US$ million ----        %
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
Road construction
by contractors
Trunk roads           12.47   23.15   35.62   1.75    3.24    4.99  )
Feeder roads          22.58   41.94   64.52   3.16    5.87    9.03  )
Tea roads             36.32   67.46  103.78   5.09    9.44   14.53  )
Settlement roads       1.82    3.38    5.20   0.26    0.47    0.73  )  65%
Road improvement by
departmental units
Settlement roads       3.33    3.34    6.67   0.46    0.47    0.93         50%
Equipment              0.05    2.68    2.73   0.01    0.37    0.38         98%
Installation of
weighing stations       0.39    3.47    3.86   0.05    0.49    0.54        90%
Consultant services
Engineering and
supervision          4.67   15.33   20.00   0.65    2.15    2.80  )  77%
81.63  160.75  242.38  11.43   22.50   33.93
Contingencies
Physical (10%)         8.17   16.07   24.24   1.14    2.25    3.39
Price (13%)           10.61   20.90   31.51   1.49    2.93    4.42
18.78   36.97   55.75   2.63    5.18    7.81
Total Project Cost: 100.41  197.72  298.13  14.06   27.68   41.74
ROUNDED TOTAL                                  14.00   28.00   42.00       67%
_c=      . =
4.24      Costs for construction work to be carried out by contract have
been estimated by applying unit prices, based on recent contract rates for
similar works (mainly those awarded under Loan 639-KE), to schedules of
quantities derived from detailed engineering by consultants, adjusted to
allow for current prices. Past experience indicates that the major trunk
road and feeder road contracts will be awarded to Kenya-based foreign firms,
and smaller contracts to local enterprises. On those items for which detailed
engineering has been completed, a physical contingency, based on past ex-
perience, of 5% has been allowed; this amount is considered adequate. For



- 16 -
the tea roads, which will be engineered at the time of construction, the
physical contingency has been increased to 15% of the estimated cost. The
cost of construction works to be carried out by departmental units has been
taken as the net cost to the Government, excluding overheads, based on the
cost of works currently being carried out under Loan 639-KE. A physical
contingency allowance of 15% has been estimated, as in the case of the tea
roads.
4.25      Price escalation has been taken into account, based on current
trends which vary between 4% and 9% per annum according to item. Estimated
price increases up to the date at which it is expected that the contracts
will be awarded average 13%, expected price rise during construction being
allowed for in the contractor's bids which, in Kenya, are normally submitted
as a fixed price without provision for further adjustments for price inflation.
4.26      The cost of supervision has been estimated at 12% where field
engineering is required; where engineering is complete, the cost of super-
vision is estimated at 6%. The estimated cost of equipment is based on
manufacturers' quotations.
4.27      The foreign component for construction is about 65% for major civil
contracts and 50% for the more labor intensive settlement roads. Fuel, equip-
ment, depreciation, bitumen, cement, management overheads and profit are the
principal foreign exchange items. On imported construction equipment, a 98%
foreign component has been estimated, and on consultants services, the esti-
mated foreign component averages 77%.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.28      The foreign costs of the project, estimated at US$28 million
equivalent, will be financed by an IDA credit of US$22 million (52% of
total project costs) and by a Swedish credit of SKr 31 million (about US$6
million equivalent). The Government will meet the local costs of the project,
estimated at US$14 million equivalent. No difficulty with respect to local
cost financing is foreseen, on the basis of the Bank Group lending experience
in Kenya.
4.29      Disbursements from the credit account will be made on the following
basis:
(a) 65% of the costs of construction work under the project
which represents the average foreign component of these works;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures on equipment and spare
parts; and
(c) 75% of the total expenditures for consultants' services which
represents the approximate foreign exchange component.
An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 9. Any funds re-
maining in the credit account upon completion of the project would be cancelled.



- 17 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The purpose of the project is to improve the infrastructure required
for future agricultural development and to meet the needs of rapidly increas-
ing traffic. Traffic forecasts used in the economic analysio are based on
the Government's official "60 point census" designed to analyze the composition
of traffic at strategically situated nodes on the road network and on automatic
counts taken at 50 points throughout the system. Normal traffic forecasts were
derived from the actual growth in traffic on each road. Induced traffic was
calculated as a function of normal traffic, subjected to sensitivity analysis
in cases where local factors indicate a possible divergence from the forecast
growth rate. The benefits from the project, stemming principally from re-
ductions in vehicle operating costs, are expected to yield an internal economic
return for the project as a whole of about 19%.
D.   Trunk Roads
5.02      The principal trunk road sections recommended for improvement,
Nairobi Airport Turnoff-Athi River Bridge and Ulu-Sultan Hamud, form part
of the main trunk route linking Nairobi with the port of Mombasa and serving
the main tourist areas of the country. Traffic on the two sections amounts
to about 2,700 and 940 vpd respectively. If the failure of such sections
were allowed to continue without remedy, the ensuing disruption to this major
route would have serious consequences for the whole of Kenya's economy, of an
order that would clearly be unacceptable. The only practicable options are
continuing to treat each defect individually as it appears, under abnormal
maintenance, until the whole section has been repaired, or alternatively,
reconstructing and strengthening the whole of each section in one operation,
without waiting for the total area to fail. The benefits likely to result
from complete reconstruction take the form of reduced extra-ordinary mainten-
ance costs, reduced vehicle operating costs and reduced journey times. The
magnitude of the benefits, given unit costs and traffic forecasts, depends
on the state of the existing road in terms of area failed. The Roads Depart-
ment has tested and verified a correlationship between the pavement performance
rating and percentage area failed of individual road sections, and has thus
been able to evaluate potential benefits of different sections on the basis
of their recorded pavement performance rating statistics.
5.03      The two sections of the Nairobi-Mombasa road included in the proj-
ect are among those that are accorded a high priority under this system of
assessment. Economic returns based on a-. evaluation of the above benefits
are estimated at 14% for the Nairobi Airport Turnoff - Athi River Bridge
section and 19% for the Ulu-Sultan Hamud section. Sensitivity tests applied
to assess the effects of varying, induced traffic forecasts indicate that
these returns would each fall by only one percentage point if all induced
traffic were excluded from the evaluation. Estimates of other variables are
considered sufficiently accurate or conservative.



- 18 -
5.04      The Waa-Msambweni road is a different case.  While the road is pro-
bably adequate for present traffic, amounting to about 270 vpd, it will short-
ly experience a sharp increase in traffic volume as a consequence of the open-
ing up of a new route to Tanzania, via the Msambweni-Lungalunga road recently
completed under Credit 120-KE. The present standards and pavement strength
will be inadequate for this purpose. The benefits of upgrading, in terms of
reduced vehicle operating costs and avoided extraordinary maintenance costs,
are estimated to yield an internal economic return of 22%.
C.   Feeder Roads
5.05      The feeder roads included in the project serve rich agricultural
areas, and some are essential links in the main road network as well. The
benefits to be obtained from their reconstruction and paving are summarized
for each road below.
5.06      The Mazeras-Kaloleni road presently carries about 110 vpd, about
half of which are heavy vehicles. Reconstruction of this road section is
expected to result in a significant diversion of traffic from another,
longer route between Kaloleni and Mombasa. It is estimated that benefits
arising from the investment, in terms of savings in vehicle operating
costs and distance reduction, will yield an economic return of about 12%.
The proposed improvement may also stimulate economic activity in addition
to the benefits allowed for in the analysis.
5.07      Bituminization of the Nanyuki-Timau road section will complete the
paving from the capital to the Northern Frontier District. Benefits for ex-
pected traffic, presently amounting to about 470 vpd, are expected to yield
an economic return of about 20%.
5.08      Bituminization of the Sotik-Kisii and Kapsabet-Chavakali roads,
which presently carry about 330 and 270 vpd, represents a further phase in
their stage construction, and is expected to yield economic returns of 29%
and 25% respectively. Since the inducement of additional traffic beyond
normal traffic growth is less certain in this case a sensitivity analysis
was carried out excluding such benefits; the economic returns on the roads
then amount to 17% and 15%, still significantly above the level of minimum
viability.
5.09      Traffic on the Teret-Church Hill road, which is being improved un-
der Loan 639-KE, has increased more rapidly than expected, currently amount-
ing to about 130 vpd. Paving of this road section is expected to yield an
economic return of 20% on the incremental expenditure.
D.   Tea Roads
5.10      The tea road improvements recommended for inclusion in the project
represent the third phase of the tea roads program, earlier phases of which
were undertaken as part of Credit 77-KE. The roads already completed have,
in almost all cases, experienced a far greater increase in generated traffic,



- 19 -
unconnected with tea production, than was forecast at the time of evaluation.
The probability of similar induced activity has been taken into account in
assessing the potential benefits of the third phase works. In fact, it is
estimated that the greater part of the benefits attributable to improvement
will accrue to such traffic.
5.11      The tea roads included in the project are situated in the Mount
Kenya-Aberdares area and the Kakamega-Kericho-Kisii area. They serve dense-
ly populated, fertile districts but are usually located on wet and hilly
terrain and, hence, liable to rapid deterioration and frequent disruption.
Improvement to gravel standards and bituminizing of grades in excess of 12%
are expected to yield economic returns ranging between 26% and 12% for the
individual roads.
E.   Settlement Roads
5.12      The second phase settlement roads included in the project will
serve the settlement schemes located, for the most part, in the Eldoret-
Kitale-Broderick Falls triangle which consist of plots between 10 and 70
acres worked by indigenous farmers. The original network of collection
roads was built to earth standard and has been inadequately maintained,
with the result that many of the roads are impassable in wet weather and
in poor condition during the dry season. The consequences have been
particularly serious in view of the settlement areas' dependence on milk
production as a principal source of income. Milk marketing requires
dependable day to day collection, and the present inadequacies in the road
network constitute a significant disincentive to increased output. The
combined benefits of increased production of milk and other perishable
commodities and reduced vehicle operating costs are expected to yield an
average economic return for the areas served by the project roads of 21%.
The Wanjohi-Geta settlement road, which is in the Aberdares region where the
first phase roads are located, is expected to yield an economic return of
about 18%.
5.13      The Dundori Summit-Kabazi road is classed as a main, as opposed to
a collection, settlement road. This new road will link an agriculturally pro-
ductive area with the Kabazi cannery and is therefore likely to induce bene-
fits through production of fruit and vegetables for canning beyond those
immediately related to the settlement scheme. It is estimated that induced
economic activity and journey distance reduction together will yield an
economic return of 15%. Induced traffic estimates are considered to be
conservative.



- 20 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The principal project matters discussed and agreed during credit
negotiations by the Governments of Kenya and Sweden and by the Association
were the following:
(a) submission to the Association within four months of signature
of the Credit Agreement of a revised plan for the establishment
of an effective highway traffic law enforcement agency, and
implementation of this plan in accordance with a timetable to
be agreed (para. 3.04);
(b) employment of consultants as required for completion of
engineering and supervision of construction (para. 4.17); and
(c) construction of major civil works' items by contractors after
international competitive bidding (para. 4.19) and of settle-
ment roads by MOW construction units utilizing labor from the
National Youth Service (para. 4.20).
6.02      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$22.0 million and a Swedish credit of SKr 31.0 million to the Government
of Kenya.
December 6, 1971



TABLE 1
KENYA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Road Network-/
A.  Length of Roads accordi_  to Type (1960-1970)
Improved Gravel      Unimproved
Year      Paved Roads        and Earth Roads2/        Roads         Total
1960        1,021                14,934             25,607         41,562
1961        1,201                15,120             25,509         41,830
1962        1,489                15,o59              25,126        41,674
1963        1,790                15,159              24,992        41,941
1964        1,811                15,143              24,992        41,946
1965        2,o62                14,892              24,992        41,946
1966        2,151                15,031             24,992         42,17b4
1967        2,220                14,726              24,992        41,938
1968        2,,460               14,221              24,992        41,673
1969        2,489                14,179              24,992        41,660
1970        3,096                 5,000-/            36,077        44,173
Source:  Miiry of Finance and Economic Planning, "1970 Statistical Abstract"
B.  Length of Roads according to New Classification (1970)
Class of Road              Length
A - International Trunk Roads       2,968
B,- National Trunk Roads            2,502
C - Primary Roads                   7,690
D - Secondary Roads                 9,280
E - Minor Roads                    19,027
F - Special Purpose Roads           2,706
44,173
Sourcei  Ministry of Works, "Road Classification - July 1970"
1/ Including municipal and special purpose roads.
2/ Only gravel roads included after 1970 reclassification.
December 6, 1971



TABLE 2
KENYA
FOURTH HIGiWAY PROJECT
1/
Estimated Number of Motor Vehicles
('000)
Fiscal     Passenger      Light Trucks     Heavy       Other Motor
Year        Cars          and Buses       Trucks       Vehicles        Total
1960        40.0            24.7            10.2         4.o            78.9
1961        42.4            25.9           10.3          4.3            82.9
1962        45.2            27.6           10.3          4.6            87.7
1963        48.0            29.4           103          5.1            92.8
1964        50.5            31.8           lOo2          5.7            98.2
1965        53.7            34.9           10.2          6.2           105.0
1966        56.4            36.6            10.2         6.5           109.7
1967        59.2            38.4           10.2          6.8           114.6
1968        62.1            40.3           10.3          7.1           119.8
1969        65.2            42.3           10.3          7.5           125.3
1970        68.5            44.4           10.3          7.9           131.1
Average Annual
Growth Rate:
1960 to 1965 6.1%            7.2%           0.1%         9.2%            5.9%
1965 to 1970 5.0%            5.0%           0.1%         5.0%            4.6%
1/ excludes motorcycles and trailers
Source: 1960-1965 estimated by the U.K. Road Research Laboratory on the
basis of new vehicle registrations and vehicle scrappage rates;
1966-1970 projected by mission.
December 6, 1971



TABLE 3
KENYA
FOURTH HIEHWAY PROJECT
Central Government Revenues from Road Users
(K: Sh '000)
Fiscal                       Gasoline and              Other
Year       Licenses       Diesel Fuel Taxes       Import Duties        Total
1960        17,254             47,342                24,002            88,598
1961        17,084             6o,778                15,o68            92,930
1962        18,034             80,396                19,412           117,842
1963        14,748             892,822               33,210           137,780
1964        13,354             95,096                31,680           140,130
1965        18,h474           101,322                41,280           161,076
1966        23,030            116,334                55,884           195,248
1967        25,682            133,720                65,402           224,804
1968        27,624            143,942                65,546           237,112
1969        25,352            1;55,082               79,696           260,130
Source: Statistical Abstract, 1970
De-e.raber 6, 1971



TABLE 4
KENYA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Central Government Expenditure on Highways
(K Sh '000)
Fiscal                      1/
Year          Construction-         Maintenance           Total
1960             30,260                 18,820            49,o80
1961             42,540                19,740             62,280
1962             44,220                23,500             67 ,720
1963             47,980                26,820             74,800
1964             15,980                22,620             38,600
1965             14,4oo                21,200             35,600
1966             48,960                31,000             79,960
1967             79,400                32,800            112,200
1968            110,200                36,000            146,200
1969            122,400                43,800            166,200
1970            185,200                55,000            240,200
1971Z/          263,200                60,000            323,200
1972-/          309,400                95,000            404,400
1/ Value of work executed
2/ Estimated
Source: Ministry of Wdorks, March 1971
December 6, 1971



TABLE 5
KENYA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
1.  G!DiETRIC
Design Speed                   kA/h  30  40   50       60    80    100
Minimum Horizontal
Radius                        m   35  70  125    175   350    600
Maximum Gradient                 %   12  10    8.5    7.5   6.0    5.o
Minimum Sight Stopping
Distance                      m   _   _    60       80   110    150
Minimum PLssing.Sight
Distance (Reduced)            m   -   -   200    250   300    4oo
2.  CROSS SECTION
Type                                  I            II        III
Width of Road Reserve            m   80          60         40
Width of Pavement (Bitumen)    m    7.00          6.00       5.50
Width of Dach Shoulder  (B)    m    2.50          2.00       1.25
Wildth of Surfacing (Gravel)    m    5.50         5.50       5.50
Width of Each Shoulder (G)        m    4.25       2.75       1.75
3. PAVE NT T
Type of Cross Section                         I                    II          III
Heavy Vehicles Per Day (hvpd)          450   15i0-   150   450   150-   150   50
+    450    max.   +    450    max.  max.
HOW Design CBR Curve                   Al    A2      A3    Ai    A2       A3    B
Bituminous Surface Thickness  mm    75    55         20    75    55       20    20
Gravel Surface   hvpd                                0-150                      0-50
dDW Design CBR Curve                                   A                        B
Gravel Thickness (Minimum)    mn                       150
Approximate Equivalent Wheel Loads:
450 + hvpd                                5,454 kg (12,000 lbs)
150 - 450 hvpd                            4,090 kg ( 9,000 lbs)
0 - 150 hvpd                            3,200 kg ( 7,000 lbs)
4.  STRUCTURES
(i)   Loading Criterion
Trunk roads: BS 153 M-A loading
(checked for 20 or 25 units IB loading on certain
scheduled roads)
Other roads: 2/3 of BS 153 HA loading
(ii)   Width Between Curbs
For double lane bridges:
type I cross section          9.00 meters
Type II & III cross section 8.00
For single lane bridges:         4.5o
1/  Ad hoc standards may be adopted for special projects or where normal standards would involve uneconomic costs.
2/ Stage construction is normal procedure.
3/ Based on UK Road Research Laboratory design charts.
Source: MOW Road Design Manual, November 1970
December 6, 1971



K A
FOURTH HIORWAY PROJECT
DETAILS OF CONSTRUCTION
RO QAD                                       z~LENGTH  .,SuNG ROA    TERIh             _               UNIT COST/          RDGINEMING                   REMARIS
km                                                                     K Sh/Km   US$/Km           BY
000      '000
TRLUNK ROADS
Nairobi-M-basa Road
1. . . Airport Turn-Off  Athi River       1I        20 ft. bitumen <falled)      Flat            Bit I/A1          617      Sb         John Burrow &      Reconstruction & strengthening
Partners          existng pavement & partial
realignmen t
2. . . Ulu-Sultan Bacsd                    25        20 ft. bitumen  (failed)    Hilly            Bit I/Al          492      69         John Barrow &      Strengthening & widening
Partners          existing pavement
Mombasa-Lungalunga Read
3. . . Waa-Msabtwan                        32        Single lane bituminou6       Flat            Bit l/A2          459      64         Sir Alex. Gibb    Reconstruction & strengthening
& Partners        partly on new aligncent
FEEDER R'4AII
4. Mazer-Kealoleni                         22        Unmpiored gravel/earth       Hilly           Bit 11a2         577      81          MW                Partial realignment
5. Nanyuki-Timau                           22        Low standard bitumen         Hilly           Bit II/A2         627      88         NOW                Failed bitumen surface 30 yrs.
old. Partial realign ent
6. Sotik-Kisi1 43                                    Isproved gravel              Hilly           Bit II/A2         423      59         John Burrow &      Eartheorks & bridges pre-
Partners          viou.ny carried out under
256-KE, 70-KE & 120-KE
7. Kapsabet-Chav&kali                     48         Part isproved gravel/        Hilly           Bit lI/A2         352      49         Howard Humphreys  Earthworks & gravel surfacing
part earth road                                                                    & Sons (EA)       partially carried out under
256-KE & 70-KE
8. Teret-Church HLU1                       23        Improved gravel              Hilly           Bit II/A3        126      18         Sir Alex. Gibb    Pacing on existang gravel.
& Partner.s       Exten-sio  o    e e ting contract
under 639-KE
TKA I1A W.
9. Kisii-Kerichio-Namdl &L               478         Unimproved earth roads       Mountainous    Modified            79      11         Scott, Wilson &   iL.5 m single lane bitumen
Kakamega areas                                   & tracks                                     Gravel IV                             Kirkpatrick &      on hills exceeding 12%
Partners          gradient remainder gravel
10. Merc & Mt. Kerya Smoth areas          195        Unimproved earth roads       Mountainocus    Modified         128       18t
& tracks                                     Gravel IV
11. Aberdares                            322         Unsiproved eartb roads       Mountinous      Modified         128       18              "
& tracks                                     Gravel IV
SETTIdSNENTE02
(Contrast)
12. Gundori Summit-Kabhzi                 15         Part new road/               Hilly           Gravel III       347       49         Sir Alex. Gibb    New gravel road in difficult
part existing track                                                                & Partners        forest country
(ft les unite)
13: Kinangop nd Eldoret aes               414        Unimproved gravel roads    Roiling to        Modified           17       3         Sir Alea. Gibb    Rehabilitation, improved
& tracks                     mountaineun     Gravel IV                             & Partners         drainage & gravel surfacing
existing roads & tacks
I/ See Table 5 for standards
2/ At 1971 prices exoluding contingencies
Source Ministry of Worka
December 6, 1971



TABLE 7
KENYA
FOURTI HIGHWAY PFUJiSCT
Equipment for Construction of Settlement Roads
Unit       Total
Item      Description                      Quantity       Price       Price
(K Sh)     (K Sh '000)
A.   Construction Equipment
1.  Trucks - tipping(7 ton)            24         39,480         947
2.  Trucks - flat(7 ton)                4          34,260        137
3.  Compressors                         2         32,120          64
4. Land Rover (SWB) type vehi,ile       9          19,140        172
5. Water tankers (1,200 gal)            5         39,100         195
6.  Tractors (agricultural type)        4          37,540        150
7. Water tank trailers (250 gal)        6          5,780          35
8.  Fuel tanker (SW)                    1          59,760         59
9.  Fuel bowser                         1         39,j00          39
10.  Tachograph                          9           1.320         12
11.  Bulldozer (D6 type) + ripper        1        296,000         296
12.  Grader (ilI2 type)                  1        198,000         198
2,304
B.   Spare Parts
1.  For heavy aquipment purchased
under 639-KE                                                 430
TOTAL :                 2,734
Source: Ministry of Works, March 1971
December 6, 1971



TABLE 8
KENYA
TOURTH ,1IGHWAY PROJECT
Proiect CosL Estimate
Z o f
Length                     KSh  000--------- US$ '000 --- -------                             Project
(km)          Local       Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign       Total       Coat
RSAO CO)NSTRUCTION BY CONTRACTORS
irunk Roads
Nairobi-Mombasa
1.   Airport Turnoff-Athi River          14           3,024          5,616        8,640         424             786      1,210
2.   Ulti-Sultan hamud                   25           4,305          7,995       12,300          603          1,119      1,722
'lombasa-Lungalunga
3.   Waa-Msambweni                       32           5,138          9,542       14.680         718           1,336      2.054
12,467        23,153       35,620        1,745          3,241      4,986         15
Feeder Roads
4.   MAzeras-Kaloleni                    22           4,445          8,255       12,700         622           1,156      1,778
5-   Nanyuki-Timau                       22           4,837         8,983        13,820         677           1,258      1,935
6.   Sotik-Klisi                         43           6,363        11,817        18,180         891           1,654      2,545
7.   Kapsabet-Chavakali                  48           5,922         10,998       16,920         829           1,540      Z,369
8.   Teret-Church Hill                   23           1,015          1,885        2.90Q          142            264        4r6
22,582        41,938       64,520        3,161          5,872      9,033         27
tea Roads
9.   gisti-lericho-Nanda-Kakamega   478              13,160         24,440       37,600        1,842          3,422      5,264
10.  Meru-Mount Kenya South             195           8,701         16,159       24,860       1,218           2,262      3,480
11.  Aberdares                          322          14,462         26-858       41 320       2,025           3.760      5,785
36,323        67,457      103,780        5,085          9,444    14,529          42
Settlement Roads
12.  Dundori Summit-Kabazi               15           1,B20         3,380         5,200         256             474        730          2
ROAD IMPROVEMENT BY MOW UNITS
13.  Settlement roads                  414            3,333         3,33          6,666         466            467         933          3
rquipment                                           55         2 679        2 734            8            375        383           1
3,38                       9,400                         B42      1,316
1NSTALLATION OF WEIGHING STATIONS                         386         3,474         3,860          54             486        540          2
CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
Engineerineg and Construction
Supervision: 122 of Items 10-13                     2,660        10,640       13,300          372          1,490      1,862
tonstructioO Supervision: 6% of
Remaining ItemS                                     2,010         4,690        6.700          282            656        938
4,670        15,330       20,000          654          2,146      2,800           8
Subtotal:                                 a1,636        160,71L4     242,380       11,429         22,505     33,934         iCC
,SNTINGENCIES
Physical - 102                                       8,16L         16,071h      24,238        1,IL13         2,250      3,393
Price    - 13.                                       10613        20 897       31 510        1,486          2 926      4.412
Subtotal:                                    ;777          7T          5;4          2,629          5,176      7,805
TOTAL PROJECT COST:                      100,1113       197,715      298,128      14,058          27,681    41,739
Rounded Totals:                                                                    14,000         28,000    42,000
Soturce:  M.nistry of Works, Marth 1971
December 6, 1971



TABLE 9
KEiNYA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                         at end of Quarter
and Quarter                             IDA           Sweden
(US$ '000)   (SKr '000)
1971/72
June 30, 1972                                   800        1,000
1972/73
September 30, 1972                            3,200         4,000
December 31, 1972                             5,500         8,000
March 31, 1973                                7,900        11,000
June 30, 1973                                10,300       14,000
1973/74
September 30, 1973                           12,600        18,000
December 31, 1973                            14,500        20,000
March 31, 1974                               16,500        24,000
June 30, 1974                                18,000       26,000
1974/75
September 30, 1974                           19,300       27,000
December 31, 1974                            20,000        28,000
March 31, 1975                               20,400        29,000
June 30, 1975                                20,800       29,000
1975/76
September 30, 1975                           21,200        30,000
December 31, 1975                            21,200        30,000
March 31, 1976                               22,000        31,000
Source: Ministry of Works, March 1971
December 6, 1971






MAP I
SUDAN-KEY
.~~~~~EY
/                               ~~~~~~FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
/             -            "~~~~- ~ MAIN  HIGHWAY  NETWORK  --'\-
1               N. ~~~~~~~~ETHIOPIA  TAdd,~   -Mod~7
Abo ba ~  ~
UGANDA k                          ~a,
17-                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA
UNGOA
SIOLO',   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Imogo&si
~~flO~   ~~   ~  I  * ~~~ALOUU
~~ ~~5    KER CHO ~KR~                   2 
-7- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  
TANZANIA
. ....... .   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~*GARSEN
O    00-16      0    90 25
5Vo~o
50~~~~~2
NOVEMABER 1971                                                                                          IBRD3315R2






MAP 2
K ITALE                                                              T.oodwar L .,
Chebo,o,oo ..n.ing
/lmlLol,wp/ MynMo,ben B,/d4
ea  K  /91  .  ch b4| \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,gorsp
Bloo2C-63o KE       . 6-To Thoono  Flk
C42~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
b.b ,                                                                                             E        CVJ
7 KE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~EC6 4    ~O
:)  p  / > ,,:  >    gCx ~~~~~256 KEK              b    n    o 42           gt
N~~ai~a tr~inh roads          39 ,..o
9 L \                                 b                                                  d, AYce H-\
f < (~~~~~~~ Ct t6t39 KE                                                                                                                                      T. Tm-glpF.11S
;      C\>^\|rOX            >2~~~~~~~~~K C3omb                                  T.,. B,|dg                                              /
\OO (TO                                      A2 Ki U                         ..w
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                             AAA-                   C13  9'5 d,..2                                      T Nrb-
ormer: Bal Gru  _iaie  poet
6, A!    rontect rnoad trQnlr\                                                                   Keekook  ggA  6
01 i- trater Aossistac  Vrtc  road
.           J¢)KeeKOROL Lod ie
V           o r620                  40           0           0
3   Highwayrmein~ancrn ct"3ters                             KENYA                                                        .                 KIlo,eoeres,  6
O  OtNerto                             FOURTH HiGHWAY PROJECT\.
WESTERN AREA
IBRD 33761
JULY 1971






MAP 3
K ENYA                                  T. L-.- & M.,,.bt
) FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CENTRAL AREA
"I   'I °;   9   ,/                                                                     t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISIOLO
120 KE
4                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 76  B
O-k                                                                     63~~~~~Yti63r  6    E9
a  f                                           A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oon £78.                                                                          2099                09, 1h 4
N                          ;                                        3 9e+  Se tkl                                             k
3Ch KE1 H                                              639 Ks
er' th ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KmongopKngdcEJZb  
~~(            XK LKtno   <E  \<                                                                                                 JTOGOrl--~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KT   _  b¢gw
A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                0
9  9                                         Iloon               Nd*I', C*r             639i K
62                                               K,ku     2  IRB                                      Too.
International trunk roads                   C63                9ondon     098                                                    Con;nmro
CUt-L      Noioagtunnogi                                                                                             Ch97                                 KITU)y09
Pr,mary roads                               N g-ger                                                                                              96 R-  =t-TU
3_D3a4   Secondary roads                                                                                       1
__            Former Bank Group financed    3               /                                           CHAKOS       Mu                                     18*0*.
2  proIec tS 
Project roads
-i--i-i--.---i--'-Railways                                            o                                                      M-o                            \ongo
-  Bi-Lateral Assistance [I r,  K)                                                                         M, /oun,
prolect roads     91/ K11 31 t                               -     -            i                              KIolu
(       Highway         \\J   Mogod\
mamntenance centersM
o       Other twynsg~w   -
'       N 1,                   Ko,bn,o                                                                                                        o o3
Mk.o
'I~~~~~~~~~D4
0         30         40 KB_     80            To A          \                                                                     To Moisoso 60
JULY 9137
JULY 1971                                                                                                                                                        IBRD) 3377F



I



MAPA
T. Nairob,
K,booo,.\ wTo Gum.
Nooo8                 w -             -t0A                   nko                    05
Mtiopn s    --t4*  -d6                                                                                       k--
0     20       4        40       60
I                               I
'- '0  '                 M"          so
4  1(400*0
KENYA                                                               N
:   :   .   .    ~~~~~~~    -                    .                                                               639  _Krl~~~~~~i  obmo /N/2/A
- 0   ..    ,   ,,   ..  - ,.-   ,  Xs,                                                        ^oroWAtpSlEtw   jo7r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0      /
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                        Ro,' Ob OCA
EASTERN AREA
T. Tororg
JULY O971                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 3378P\1



