CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 276 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 5, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 276 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 5, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 5, 1972, between the REPUBLIC OF
KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Sched-le 1 to the Joint Financing Agreement;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Swedish
Credit Agreement), the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called Sweden) has agreed
to make available to the Borrower for the Project a credit in an aggregate principal
amount of thirty-one million Swedish Kronor (SKr3 1,000,000) equivalent to about
six million dollars ($6,000,000) upon the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(C)   By the Joint Financing Agreement of even date herewith the Borrower,
Sweden and the Association have agreed on the allocation, withdrawal and use
of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Credit and the execution of the
Project to be financed thereby, as well as other matters;
(D)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   the provisions of Article V (other than Sections 5.02 and 5.04) are
deleted;


﻿4
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
(c)   the words "Development Credit Agreement" in paragraph 9 of Section
2.01 are deleted and the words "Joint Financing Agreement" are substituted
therefor and the word "Sweden," is added before the words "the Association"
in said paragraph;
(d)   the words "and the Joint Financing Agreement" are added after the
words "Development Credit Agreement" in line 3 of Section 8.01; and
(e)   the words "or the Joint Financing Agreement" are added iii line 9
of Section 8.01 and in Section 8.02 after the words "Development Credit
Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Joint Financing Agreement" means the agreement, referred to in
Recital C to this Agreement, between the Borrower, Sweden and the Association,
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement of the parties hereto;
and
(b)   "Swedish Credit" means the credit provided for in the Swedish Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million dollars
($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Joint Financing
Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association


﻿5
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
January I and July 1 commencing July 1, 1982 and ending January 1, 2022,
each installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 1992 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/29'c) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Joint Financing Agreement
Section 3.01. Tht Oorrower shall duly perform all its obligations set forth
in the Joint Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit


﻿6
Agreement, the administration, operations, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Joint Financing
Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution,
delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section '7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contiary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The right of Kenya to withdraw the proceeds of the Swedish Credit
shall have been suspended, or, Kenya shall have been unable to withdraw
such proceeds, in whole or in part, and Kenya shall have failed to obtain
funds for the Project from other sources in substitution therefor, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and such event shall have
continued for a period of 120 days.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date March 15, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being responsible
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿8
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
Finance
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ L. O. Kibinge
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice Presiden t


