CONFORMED COPY
E)celopment (Eredit
/-greement
(Fourth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
DATED JANUARY 5, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
tltllopmnt Zr edit
(Fourth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
DATED JANUARY 5, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT between the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN, on the one hand and
the REPUBLIC OF KENYA, on the other hand (hereinafter called the Agreement).
WHEREAS the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Kenya, desiring
to strengthen the cooperation and cordial relations between them, have agreed that
as a contribution to the economic and social development of Kenya, the Kingdom
of Sweden (hereinafter called Sweden) shall extend to the Republic of Kenya
(hereinafter called Kenya) a development credit (hereinafter called the Swedish
Credit) to assist in the financing of a highway project described in Schedule I
to the Joint Financing Agreement (hereinafter called the Project), to be undertaken
by Kenya;
WHEREAS Kenya has entered into a development credit agreement of even
date (hereinafter called the IDA Credit Agreement) with the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) with regard to further
assistance towards the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS Sweden, Kenya and the Association have also entered into an
agreement of even date (in this Agreement called the Joint Financing Agreement)
in respect of the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds of financing under
the aforementioned agreements and the execution of the Project, as well as other
matters;
NOW THEREFORE Sweden and Kenya agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
The Swedish Credit
1.   Sweden shall make available to Kenya a development credit in an amount
of thirty-one million Swedish Kronor (SKr31,000,000) subject to the provisions
of the Agreement, of which the attached Annex forms an integral part, and to
such other provisions as may be agreed upon between the Parties.
2.    The Swedish Credit shall be available for withdrawal in an amount of ten
million Swedish Kronor (SKrl 0,000,000) from the effective date of the Agreement,
in a further amount of five million Swedish Kronor (SKr5,000,000) from
July 1, 1972, in a further amount of twelve million Swedish Kronor
(SKrl2,000,000) from July 1, 1973, and in its entirety from July 1, 1974.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Use of the Proceeds of the Swedish Credit
Kenya shall use or cause the proceeds of the Swedish Credit to be used
in accordance with the Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement to assist,
jointly with the credit provided for in the IDA Credit Agreement, in financing
the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Special Account
The amount to be made available in accordance with Article I shall be paid
by Sweden, as required to meet requests by Kenya for withdrawals, to the credit
of an account in Swedish Kronor opened on the books of the Sveriges Riksbank,
Stockholm, acting as agent for Sweden. The account shall be denominated "Central
Bank of Kenya, Special Account No. 4" (hereinafter called the Special Account).
ARTICLE IV
Withdrawal from the Special Account
1.   Kenya shall be entitled, subject to the provisions of the Agreement and the
Joint Financing Agreement, to withdraw from the Special Account such proportion
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed by Sweden and the Association, either separately or simultaneously, as
agreed in accordance with the terms of the Joint Financing Agreement.
2.    The closing date for withdrawals shall be March 31, 1976, or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Parties.
ARTICLE V
Service of the Swedish Credit
1.   Kenya shall pay to Sweden a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of
one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Swedish
Credit withdrawn from the Special Account and outstanding from time to time.
The service charge shall be payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31
in each year. The first payment shall, however, not be made before June 30, 1973.
The service charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months.


﻿5
Kenya shall repay to Sweden the principal of the Swedish Credit withdrawn
from the Special Account in semi-annual installments payable on June 30 and
December 3 1 commencing June 30, 1982 and ending December 3 1, 202 1, each
installment to and including the installment payable on December 31, 1991 to
be one-half per cent (1/2%) of such principal amount and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount. Kenya shall
have the right to repay in advance of maturity all or any part of the principal
amount of one or more maturities of the Swedish Credit specified by Kenya.
3.   The principal of and service charge on the Swedish Credit shall be paid by
Kenya in Swedish Kronor to the Sveriges Riksbank in favor of' Sweden.
4.    The principal of and service charge on the Swedish Credit shall be paid
without deduction for, and free from, any taxes and charges and free from all
restrictions imposed under the laws of Kenya or laws in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
1.   Kenya shall furnish to Sweden evidence of the authority of' the person or
persons who will, on behalf of Kenya, take any action or execute any document
under the Agreement.
2.   Any notice or request under the Agreement and any agreement between
the Parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing. Such nlotice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when delivered tllrough
diplomatic channels.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
1.   The Agreement shall become effective after it has been signed by duly
authorized representatives of the Parties and concurrently with the IDA Credit
Agreement becoming effective.
2.   The Agreement and all obligations of the Parties hereunder, except those
set forth in Article V and in the Annex, shall terminate on a date 25 years after
the date of the Agreement or the date upon which the Parties shall hlave full'illed
all obligations, including those set forth in Article V, arising from the Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of
Kenya, acting through their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
the Agreement to be signed.
Done in the District of Columbia, United States of America, on the
day of January 5, 1972, in two original copies in English.
For the
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s / Hubert de Besche
For the
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ L. O. Kibinge


﻿7
ANNEX
The following provisions shall govern the rights and obligations under the
Agreement, of which they are considered an integral part with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth therein.
Paragraph 1:     Cancellation and Suspension
1.1  Kenya may by notice to Sweden cancel any amount of the Swedish Credit
which Kenya shall not have withdrawn, or with respect to which Sweden shall
not be bound through a special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement, prior to the giving of such notice.
1.2  If any of the following events shall have happened and be continuing, Sweden
may by notice to Kenya suspend, in whole or in part, the right of Kenya to make
withdrawals from the Special Account:
(a)   A default shall have occurred in the payment of principal or service
charge under the Agreement.
(b)   Kenya shall have failed to meet any other obligation under the
Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement and shall not have rectified such
failure after notice by Sweden.
(c)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that Kenya will be able to perform its obligations under the Agreement.
(d)  The right of Kenya to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit provided
for in the IDA Credit Agreement shall have been suspended or terminated in whole
or in part and Kenya shall have failed to obtain funds for the Project from other
sources in substitution therefor, on terms and conditions satisfactory to Sweden,
and such event shall have continued for a period of 120 days.
(e)  The outstanding principal of the Credit provided for in the IDA Credit
Agreement shall have been declared, or become, due and payable in advance of
the agreed maturity thereof.
(f)   Kenya shall have cancelled any part of the Credit provided for in the
IDA Credit Agreement without having cancelled a corresponding proportion of the
Swedish Credit.


﻿8
1.3  The right of Kenya to make withdrawals from the Special Account shall
continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event
or events which gave rise to such suspension shall have ceased to exist or until
Sweden shall have notified Kenya that the right to make withdrawals has been
restored, whichever is the earlier; provided, however, that in the case of any such
notice of restoration the right to make withdrawals shall be restored only to the
extent and subject to the conditions specified in such notice, and no such notice
shall affect or impair any rights, power or remedy of Sweden in respect of any
other or subsequent event described in this Paragraph.
1.4  If (a) the right of Kenya to make withdrawals from the Special Account
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Swedish Credit for
a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in Article IV,
Section 2, of the Agreement as the closing date an amount of the Swedish Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Special Account, Sweden may by notice to
Kenya terminate the right of Kenya to make withdrawals with respect to such
amount. Upon the giving of such notice such amount of the Swedish Credit shall
be cancelled.
1.5  No cancellation or suspension by Sweden shall apply to amounts with respect
to which Sweden shall be bound through a special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement.
1.6  Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension all the provisions of the
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as in this Paragraph
specifically provided.
Paragraph 2:     Remedies of Sweden
If any event specified in subparagraph 1.2 (a), (d) or (f) of Paragraph I
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or if any event specified
in subparagraph 1.2 (b) or (c) of Paragraph 1 shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by Sweden to
Kenya, or if the event specified in subparagraph 1.2 (e) of Paragraph I shall occur,
then at any subsequent time Sweden, at its option, may declare the principal of
the Swedish Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and upon
any such declaration such principal shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in the Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Paragraph 3:     Failure to Exercise Rights
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise any right, power or remedy
accruing to either Party under the Agreement upon any default shall impair any


﻿9
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an
acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such Party in respect of any
default or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right, power or
remedy of such Party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Paragraph 4:       Arbitration
(a)   Any controversy between the Parties to the Agreement and any claim
by either Party against the other arising under the Agreement which cannot be
settled in a satisfactory manner through diplomatic channels, within six months,
will at the request of either Party be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral
Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)   The Parties to such arbitration shall be Sweden and Kenya.
(c)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by Sweden; a second arbitrator shall
be appointed by Kenya; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter called the presiding
arbitrator) shall be appointed by agreement of the Parties or, if they shall not
agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or failing appointmint
by him, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either of the Parties
shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the presiding
arbitrator. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Paragraph shall
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in
the same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator
and such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)   Arbitration proceedings may be instituted under this Paragraph upon
notice by the Party instituting such proceeding to the other Party. Such notice
shall contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to
be submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the
arbitrator appointed by the Party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days
after the giving of such notice, the adverse Party shall notify the Party instituting
the proceeding of the name of the arbitrator appointed by such adverse Party.
(e)   If, within sixty days after the giving of such notice instituting the
arbitration proceeding, the Parties shall not have agreed upon a presiding arbitrator,
either Party may request the appointment of a presiding arbitrator as provided
in subparagraph (c) of this Paragraph.
(f)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall
be mutually agreed by the parties and failing such agreement shall be fixed by


﻿10
the presiding arbitrator. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where
and when it shall sit.
(g)   Subject to the provisions of this Paragraph and except as the Parties
shall otherwise agree, the Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to
its competence and shall determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral
Tribunal shall be by a majority vote.
(h)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the Parties a fair hearing and
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An
award signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award
of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each
Party. Any such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph
shall be final and binding upon the Parties to the Agreement. Each Party shall
abide by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in
accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph.
(i)   The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Paragraph shall be in
lieu of any other procedure for the determination of controversies between the
Parties to the Agreement and any claims by either Party against the other Party
arising thereunder.
(j)   Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding
under this Paragraph or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award
rendered pursuant to this Paragraph shall be made through diplomatic channels.


