Report No. 865-KO                                                    F
Korea                                                                FILE CO"Py
Appraisal of the
Medium Industry Bank
October 23, 1975
Agricultural Credit and Development Finance Companies Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00                   Won 485.00
w 1,000              =    US$2.06
W 1,000,000          -    US$2,061.85
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
CGF       -    Credit Guarantee Fund
ONB       -    Citizens National Bank
DFCs      -    Development Finance Companies
EPB       -    Economic Planning Board
ERR       -    Economic rate of return
ESD       -    Extension Services Department of Medium Industry Bank
FLD       -    Foreign Loan Department of Medium Industry Bank
FRR       -    Financial rate of return
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
IRF       -    Industrial Rationalization Fund
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt ftfr Wiederaufbau
KDB       -    Korea Development Bank
.(DFC     -    Korea Development Finance Corporation
KIC       -    Korea Investment Corporation
KIFC      -    Korea Investment and Finance Corporation
EIE       -    Local industrial estates
MIB       -    Medium Industry Be.ak
NFMIC     -    National Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives
NACF      -    National Agricultural Cooperative Fund
NIF       -    National Investment Fund
OECF      -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (of Japan)
SMI       -    Small and medium industries
SIB       -    Small Industry Bureau
3NDP      -    United Nations Development Program
JSAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF TIIE MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY .............................................. i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................    1
II.   THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ....            ...........    1
III.    MIB - ROLE IN TiIE ECONOMY ............................    4
Role in Relation to Other Financial Institutions.    4
Overall Financing Operations ....................    6
Extension Services ..............................    7
Economic Impact of MIB's Projects ....           ...........    8
Resource Mobilization .....       .................          9
Development Strategy ............................    9
IV.   MIB -INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS ..........................   10
Legal Framework and Ownership ............ .........   10
Organization and Operational Autonomy ..........        .   10
Policy Statement and Operating Policies .... ......   11
Appraisal Standards .............................   12
Follow-Up ........          ...............................   12
Procurement and Disbursement .............. .. .....   13
Operational and Financial Planning ... ! ..........   13
Operational Capability .....         .....................   13
Commercial Banking Operations .            ..................   13
Term Lending ....................................   14
Characteristics of Lending Operations ..........       .   14
Resources ...... ...............                            15
Financial Condition .............................   16
Proposal for Strengthening Capital Structure   ....  17
Quality of Portfolio .......           .....................   18
Terms and Conditions of Lending .            ................   18
Audit ......       ... .... *..*.a ..................   19
Business Prospects and Resource Requirements ....   19
Financial Projections ..............          ..... 6...   20
V.   THE LOAN - OBJECTIVES AND FEATURES            ...................   21
Objectives of the Loan .................... . .   .....   21
Main Features of the Loan .....         ...................  21
VI.   AGREDIENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS             ...22
This report was based on a field appraisal of MIB in February 1975 by
Messrs. T.N. Dinh, K. Siraj and A. Kongsiri.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Korean Economy and the Small and Medium Industrial Sector
2.   Summary of MIB's Operations, 1971-74
Table 1   Summary of Loan Operations
Table 2   Data on Working Capital Loans
Table 3   Summary of Guarantee Operations
Table 4   Analysis of Loans Outstanding
3.   MIB's Technical and Extension Services
Table 1   Data on In-Plant Consultancy Services
Table 2   Data on Correspondence Services
Table 3   Data on Professional Seminars
Table 4   List of Professional Publications
4.   Economic Impact of MIB's Projects
Table 1   Partial Economic Indicators
Table 2   Economic and Financial Rates of Return
Table 3   MIB's Loans to Saemaul Industries
5.   Outline of MIB's Development Strategy, 1976-77
6.   Board of Policy and Board of Directors
Table 1   Composition of Board of Policy
Table 2   Composition of Board of Directors
Table 3   Distribution of Funtions
7.   Policy Statement
8.   MIB's Resource Position
Table 1   Resource Position as of December 31, 1974
Table 2   Long-Term Borrowings as of December 31, 1974
9.   Financial Position and Earnings
Table 1   Balance Sheets, 1969-74
Table 2   Income Statements, 1969-74
Table 3   Indicators of Financial Position and Performance
10.   Condition of Portfolio as of December 31, 1974
Table 1   Status of Loan Portfolio
Table 2   Analysis of Loans in Arrears
11.   Undertaking by the Government of Korea Regarding MIB's Capital
Structure



-3-
12.   Business and Financial Projections, 1975-79
Table 1   Projected Operations
Table 2   Projected Balance Sheets
Table 3   Projected Income Statements
Table 4   Projected Cash Flow Statements
Table 5   Projected Indicators of Financial Position and
Performance
13.   Estimated Schedule of Commitments and Disbursements under
Proposed Loan
CHART
9765 MIB's Organization as of December 31, 1975
MAP
IBRD 11602






NEDIMlE mIDUSTrRY B.LEK
Basic Data
(As of December 31, 19T,L)
1.  Year of Establishment:    196S1
2. Ownership:                      Paid-in capital          %
(Wion in million)
Government of Korea              3,044             99.5
Individuals                         16              0.5
Total                     3,060           100.0
3.  Operations:                             1971      1972     1973      1974
(Won in mi1lion)
Commitments:
Domestic currency equipment loans    4,0214   4,380   10,803    10,C1I
Foreign currency loans                2,835    1,687    6,189       9,623
Working capital loans               333,638  3672082  461,400   610,259.
Total                       340,497  373,149  478,392   629,897
Disbursements:
Domestic currency equipment loans    4,024    4,380   10,803        °,310
Foreign currency loans                6,045    3,3L7    4,782    11,726
Working capital loans               333v638  367,082  461 ,400    09,209
Total                       343,707  374,809  476,985   630,245
Guarantees issued:                      11,462   15.917   20,171    11,548
4. Net Outstanding Portfolio:                       (Won in mi]lion)
Domestic currency equipment loans                  22,490
Foreign currency loans                             2S,530
Total equipment loans                     49,020
Working capital loans                             108,611
Guarantees                                          2,567
Total outstanding portfolio              160,398



Page 2
Basic Data
5.   rnings Recora:                                  1971   1 072   1973   1974
Farnings before provisions and tax as %
of average total assets                      0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Net income as % of averag,e equity            11.7    6.2    7.2    7.5
Financial ex,penses as % of average total
assets                                       9.2    9.2    7.0    7.1
Adniinistrative expenses as % of average
total assets                                 5.3   41.3    3-L    3.5
Book value as A of par value                   144    135    139    143
Cash dividend rate                             6.1   5.5   S6.o    6.0
Cash dividend pay out ratio                   40.6   7h.7   61.5   57.0
6.  Financial Position:
Total assets (Won in billion)                1C2.6  126.7  171.8  213.2
Of whlich loan portfolio (C.Won in billion) 68.9  814.7  112.1  157.8
Long-term debts (Won in billion)              61.9   76.8  9!D.2  112.8
Of which in foreign currency               12.7   14.7   17.4   27.5
Equity                                         3.3    4.1   14.2    4.LL
Current ratio                                  1.9    1.8    1.7    1.6
Total debt/equity ratio                       27.7   26.9  38.14   46.0
Long-term debt/equity ratio                  17.9   17.2   21.0   23.8
Reserves and provisions as % of portfolio    1.7    1.14   1.2    1.0
7. Interest Rates and Charges
Foreioa c-urrency loans
Proposed IBRL Loan                         10.5% p.a.
ADB Loan                                   10.25% p.a. (rate set in 1975)
Ecport-Import Bank of Japan Loan            8.25,0 p.a. (rate set in 1771)
KfW Lcan                                    9.0%  n.e. (rate set in 1973)
Domestic currency loans
General Loans                              15.5% p.a.
Overdrafts                                 17.5% p.C.
Loans for Export Trade                      9.0% P.a.
Machinery Industry Development Loans       12.0% p.a.
Mqachinery Industry Facility Fund Loans   10.0% p.a.
(working capital)
National Investment Fund Loans             12.0-' p.a.
Industrial Rationalization Fund Loans    12.0% p.a.
?enalty charKe on loans overdue                2'.O% pa.



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Korea has requested a $30 million Bank loan for
the Medium Industry Bank (MIB) to help finance the import requirements of
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises.
ii.       MIB was established in 1961 as a Government-owned development
finance institution specializing in assisting the small and medium indus-
trial (SMI) sector. This sector, officially defined as comprising manu-
facturing enterprises with less than 200 employees or with total assets not
exceeding W 50 million, is important in the Korean economy, accounting for
96.5% of the number of industrial establishments, 27.9% of industrial value
added and 45.3% of total industrial employment. This sector's contribution
is especially important in terms of its exports, which in 1974 amounted to
US$1,640 million or 36.8% of Korea's total merchandise exports.  Apart from
the creation and operation of MIB, Government measures to assist SMI in-
cluded:  (a) the establishment of local industrial estates and single-trade
estates catering to small enterprises; (b) a statutory requirement that
commercial banks direct at least 30% of their lending to the SMI sector;
(c) promotion of and assistance to a large network of cooperatives serving
small and medium enterprises at the national and provincial levels; and
(d) a scheme launched in 1973 to encourage the development of small factories
in rural areas as an integral part of the New Community Movement and with
the objective of augmenting non-farm employment in these areas.
iii.      MIB is by far the most important institutional source of term
finance, especially of foreign exchange, for SMI in Korea. It provides
term loans, in both domestic and foreign currencies, as well as short-term
working capital loans and other commercial banking facilities to SMI enter-
prises. Its financing in the period 1972-74 accounted for almost one-fourth
of total institutional financing (including that of commercial banks) for
the SMI sector. As of December 31, 1974, MIB's total outstanding loan port-
folio amounted to W 157.8 billion ($326 million equivalent) of which about
one-third represented long-term equipment loans, and two-thirds short-term
working capital loans. NIB's considerable coverage of the SMI sector is
illustrated by the fact that as of year-end 1974 it had 18,570 outstanding
borrowers or almost 70% of the total number of small and medium enterprises
(about 25,000) operating in Korea. Almost 90% of MIB's financing has gone
to the highly export-oriented manufacturing sector, with the balance to
the mining, construction, transport and services sectors. MIB's commercial
banking operations are carried out in conformity with sound banking prac-
tices, and its term lending operations are of satisfactory development
banking standards.



- ii -
iv.       Apart from its financing, MIB is active in providing technical
assistance and extension services to SMI firms. With the help of the
International Labor Organization (ILO) and the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) since 1967, NIB has built up its Extension Services Depart-
ment (ESD), which now has the capacity to supply effective technical and
managerial consultancy services. In addition to these, MIB has undertaken
a variety of developmental functions including feasibility studies on speci-
fic SMI activities, professional seminars, and various publications which
have wide circulation in the Korean small business community.
v.        Data on a representative sample of MIB's projects showed an
average economic rate of return of 45% and a financial rate of return of
27.6%. As a matter of policy, MIB gives priority to export-oriented proj-
ects, and the 174 investment projects for which it approved foreign exchange
loans in 1973-74 are expected to export as much as 49% of their output. The
average investment cost for the 22,369 additional jobs generated by these
projects was about W 1.5 million ($3,800 at the exchange rate of W 400 to
US$1 which prevailed during most of the 1973-74 period), which underlines
the labor-intensiveness of NIB's projects. The average size of MIB's term
loans was W 14.0 million ($29,000) for domestic currency lending and $125,000
for foreign currency lending. Reflecting the pattern of Korean industry as
a whole, a major proportion of MIB's financing has gone to projects located
in the Seoul and Busan areas. The Bank has urged and MIB has agreed to
endeavor to enlarge the geographic distribution of its future financing.
vi.       MIB is a well organized and well managed institution, with a staff
of generally good caliber. Apart from its head office, it has a network of
60 local branches and 15 deposit offices, which enables it to reach SMI
firms in all areas of the country. The standards of its project appraisal
are generally satisfactory without being over-refined. There is however
room for improving MIB's economic evaluation of projects. MIB has agreed
with the Bank's suggestion to undertake the calculation of the economic
rate of return for selected projects financed under the proposed Bank loan.
MIB's follow-up work is thorough and effective and contributes to the high
quality of its portfolio. NIB's technical assistance and extension services
are of extensive scope and good quality. MIB, however, appears somewhat
understaffed in some key departments, including the Foreign Loan Department
which will have the responsibility for handling most of MIB's work relating
to the proposed Bank loan. MIB's plans for increasing the staff of that
Department, as well as that of its Extension Services Department, were
reviewed and understandings reached at negotiations.
vii.      MIB's overall financial position is satisfactory, with a debt
service cover averaging 1.4 and a current ratio of 1.7 in recent years. Its
profitability, although modest, is adequate for a public, primarily develop-
ment-oriented, institution. The brightest aspect of MIB's financial con-
dition is the excellent quality of its loan portfolio. As of year-end 1974,
total arrears of principal and interest for both long- and short-term loans
amounted to W 5.5 billion, representing 3.5% of the total outstanding port-
folio, with the principal affected by arrears amounting to W 7.0 billion or



- iii -
4.4% of the total outstanding portfolio. Notwithstanding its satisfactory
overall financial position, MIB is under-capitalized, as evidenced by a
long-term debt/equity ratio of 23.8:1 and a ratio of total .debt (including
all deposits) to equity of 46.0:1 as of year-end 1974. The appraisal mis-
sion consequently had extensive discussions with the Government and MIB
on measures for strengthening MIB's equity base. As a result, the Govern-
ment has formally agreed to provide MIB with additional share capital of no
less than W 10 billion in 1975-76 (compared with MIB's present paid-in share
capital of W 3 billion). Furthermore, the Government agreed to give MIB
additional equity capital in the future as needed to keep MIB's long-term
debt/equity ratio within 10:1. The proposed share capital increase of W 10
billion or more should improve MIB's capital structure to a satisfactory
extent, and reduce its long-term debt/equity ratio to a level below 10:1.
In view of the Government's undertaking noted above, it is recommended that
the Bank loan agreement provide for a long-term debt/equity limit of 10:1
(with all outstanding Government loans and all deposits for over one year
to be included in debt). This proposed limit is justified on the grounds
of MIB's good financial condition, the high quality of its portfolio and its
overall operational capability.
viii.     MIB is expected to commit foreign exchange resources totalling
about $63 million for the two-year period 1976-77. Its existing foreign
currency resources are already substantially fully committed. No firm
foreign exchange resources other than the proposed Bank loan are in
sight until sometime in 1976. A Bank loan of $30 million is recommended,
which would finance slightly less than one-half of MIB's projected
foreign currency commitments over the next two years, with the balance
expected to be covered by new borrowings from the Asia Development Bank
in 1976 and other sources.
ix.       MIB has formulated its development strategy for the next two
years, 1976-77, which includes: (a) an intended target of about 50%
for lending to areas outside Seoul and Busan (these areas to date
account for slightly less than 40% of MIB's financing); (b) MIB's
endeavor to intensify its assistance to small rural industries within
the New Community Movement; (c) a further and steady expansion of its
extension services; and (d) sector and feasibility studies for selected SMI
activities.
x.        NIB is an efficient allocator of financial resources and a
suitable borrower of Bank funds. The proposed loan would finance economically
viable, export-oriented, labor intensive small and medium industrial proj-
ects inx Korea which by virtue of their size are not usually financed by the
two other industrial financial intermediaries receiving Bank funds, namely
Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) and the Korea Development Bank
(KDB). It would allow the Bank to exert its influence in helping an already
well-organized institution achieve further improvements in its financial
structure (through the proposed share capital increase) and its operational
standards. Finally, the proposed loan is expected to help relieve the
pressure on Korea's balance of payments in the next several years, and is



- iv -
consonant with the Bank's present objective of achieving a rapid transfer
of resources to Korea, especially to its export-oriented manufacturing
sector, through quick-disbursing Bank loans.
xi.       The terms of the loan would be generally similar to those of Bank
loans to DFCs. The loan would have a flexible amortization schedule not
exceeding seventeen years and conforming substantially to the aggregate
of the repayment schedules of the sub-loans. The loan agreement would
provide for a long-term debt/equity ratio of 10:1. Based on the standards
of MIB's appraisal work and the average size of its foreign exchange oper-
ations, the free limit would be set at $0.5 million. The proceeds of the
Bank loan would be used to make sub-loans not exceeding $1 million to
industrial enterprises whose total assets are within W 600 million.



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Korea has requested a Bank loan for the Medium
Industry Bank (MIB) to finance small- and medium-scale industrial enter-
prises. A $30 million Bank loan is recommended.
1.02      MIB, a Government-owned institution established in 1961 to promote
and assist small and medium industries (SMI), is by far the most important
source of term-finance and technical assistance for Korean SMI. Its financ-
ing comprises both long-term operations (e.g. loans and guarantees in domes-
tic and foreign currencies) and short-term commercial banking operations
(e.g. working capital loans, deposits, letters of credit, etc.). It also
provides to SMI a broad range of technical and extension services. It has
built up over time an efficient organization with good standards of internal
operation, and enjoys a high degree of operational autonomy vis-a-vis the
Government. MIB's overall financial position and performance is satisfac-
tory, and is reflected in a loan portfolio of excellent quality. MIB's
present capitalization is however inadequate and the proposed loan would
be accompanied by arrangements to strengthen its capital structure (para
4.18).
1.03      Although the Bank over the last seven years has made six loans
totalling $210 million to Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) and
the Korea Development Bank (KDB), these loans were made primarily for fi-
nancing relatively large industrial projects. The proposed loan, on the
other hand, would specifically finance industrial enterprises in the small-
and medium-scale sector, which falls within MIB's statutory functions and
represents an important sector of the Korean economy, especially in terms
of employment and exports.
II. THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
2.01      The recent performance of the Korean economy and industrial sector
is analyzed in Annex 1. The role, structure and other characteristics of
the SMI sector in particular are discussed in Chapter C of that Annex, and
some salient features are summarized below. For a review of the recent
performance of the Korean economy, reference is invited to the Bank's latest
economic report: "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Republic
of Korea", No. 768-KO, dated May 28, 1975. The report of the Bank's Indus-
trial Sector Mission which visited Korea in October 1974 is under prepara-
tion.



- 2 -
2.02      Role of SMI in Economy.  An SMI enterprise in the manufacturing
sector is officially defined as one with less than 200 employees or with
total assets below W 50 million. 1/ This same definition applies generally
to enterprises eligible for NIB's financing. 2/ Within the SMI sector,
there is no official differentiation and no separate treatment between
small-scale and medium-scale enterprises. The SMI sector is important
within the Korean economy, accounting in 1972 for 96.5% of the number of
industrial establishments, 27.9% of industrial value added, and 45.3% of
total industrial employment. Its performance has been most outstanding in
terms of its exports, which amounted in 1974 to US$1,640 million or 36.8%
of Korea's total merchandise exports, a percentage considerably greater
than SMI's share (27.9%) of industrial value added. This is an indication
of the high degree of export-orientation and the international competitive-
ness of Korean SMI.
2.03      Institutional Framework for SMI Financing.  The three main sources
of finance for SMI are: (a) MIB, which provides both short-term won credits
and long-term loans in domestic and foreign currencies; (b) the Citizens
National Bank (CNB), which provides only small won loans for both fixed
assets and working capital for small enterprises (with less than 50 em-
ployees) and for households and individuals; and (c) the commercial bank-
ing network, comprising five nation-wide city banks (in which the Govern-
ment has a majority shareholding) and ten privately-owned local banks,
which is the main source of short-term working capital loans to SMI. The
table in para 24 of Annex 1 shows that, as of June 30, 1974, the amount of
institutional loans outstanding to the SMI sector amounted to W 591.5 bil-
lion, of which commercial banks accounted for 63.1%, MIB for 20.1%, CNB
for 13.1%, and other sources for the balance of 3.7%. About 90% of the
amount of loans outstanding for SMI at the end of 1973 were short-term;
however, a portion of short-term loans made by CNB and the commercial
banks were used for financing fixed assets. Of the total amount of long-
term loans outstanding for SMI at year-end 1973, about W 45 billion, MIB
accounted for as much as three-fourths. During the three-year period
1972-74, loans to SMI have on average accounted for about 35% of total
bank loans to industry; compared with SMI's share of about 28% in total
industrial output (para 2.02), this indicates that SMI has had good
access to institutional credit relative to large industries.
2.04      Apart from the above financing institutions, the Small Industry
Bureau (SIB) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry plays an important
regulatory role in formulating, coordinating and implementing policies
in the SMI sector. In addition, the National Federation of Medium In-
dustry Cooperatives (NFMIC) serves as the apex for 158 SMI cooperatives
1/   This limit is in the process of being revised upward to W 300 million
(para 3.02).
2/   Except for MIB's foreign currency financing, which is subject to
ad hoc limits (para 3.02).



-3-
around the country, and performs important duties including coordination
of business activities, maintenance of quality standards, assistance in
arranging credit, technical information and guidance, marketing, assistance
and sponsorship of industrial estates. NFMIC also provides to its SMI mem-
bers a small amount of technical assistance, the bulk of which is supplied
by MIB (para 3.03).
2.05       Government Policies and Incentives.  Government efforts to assist
SMI started in the early 1960's, with the establishment of the Small Industry
Bureau (referred to in the preceding paragraph) and of MIB. These efforts
were confined initially mainly to financial assistance and extension serv-
ices through MIB, and a statutory requirement enacted in 1965 that commercial
banks direct at least 30% of their total financing to enterprises in the SMI
sector. Additional financial incentives (common to industries of all sizes)
included subsidized credits for exports, and special depreciation allowances
for investments to replace obsolete equipment. Industrial estates have been
an important part of the Government's program to promote industrialization
since the mid-1960's. Most important for SMI are the local industrial estates
which are constructed and managed since the early 1970's by local governments
assisted by subsidies from the central grovernment; they are located near
urban centers in the provinces and are an integral part of the Government's
regional development program. To date, 12 such estates have been set up
containing about 525 firms. Another type of industrial estate catering to
SMI consists of single-trade estates, which enable SMI enterprises to group
together to take advantage of economies of scale and common facilities for
their operations. So far, five estates of this kind have been set up, in-
cluding two for machinery, one for synthetic resins, one for non-ferrous
metals and one for electronics.  The "Saemaul" or New Community Program
launched by the Government in 1973 included the development of small fac-
tories in rural areas, with the objective of augmenting off-farm  employment
in these areas. At the end of 1974, 370 Saemaul factories had been set up
with a total investment of W 33 billion and about 80,000 workers.
2.06       SMI Prospects.  Assuming a general recovery of the Korean economy
in the near future, which in turn hinges largely on an economic upturn in
the United States and Japan, the prospects for Korean SMI are good. The
SMI sector is expected to maintain its share of manufacturing value added
of about 28-30%, and a share of manufacturing investment of about 26%
based on past capital/output relationships. Assuming the growth target
of 9% for Korea's economy is achieved in 1976 and the next few years,
which involves a 17% growth rate of the manufacturing sector, fixed in-
vestment in the SMI sector is projected by MIB to rise from W 136 billion in
1975 to W 184 billion in 1976 and W 250 billion in 1977, representing an
annual increase in real terms of about 15%.
2.07       Interest Rates.  Table 1 of Annex 1 gives the range of interest
rates paid and received by MIB and other banking and financial institu-
tions. Interest rates applied by MIB to SMI borrowers are generally the
same as those applied to larger industries by commercial banks and other
financial institutions. Deposit rates range from 1.0% to 5.4% for demand



- 4 -
deposits, and from 12.6% to 15.0% for time deposits of between 3 and 24
months. Although not directly comparable, public debentures yield about
21% p.a. and the average dividend yield on common stock was 13.6% in 1974.
Preferential rates are granted for selected activities such as exports (9%)
and machinery industry (12%), but the standard lending rate for domestic cur-
rency loans is 15.5% p.a. This rate is well below the recent exceptionally
high rate of domestic inflation in 1974 (44.6%) and the first half of 1975
(28% on an annual basis), but it is above the inflation rate in earlier
years, say from 1968 until 1973, which averaged 8.9% per annum. The 15.5%
rate also exceeds the projected rate of future inflation, which the Govern-
ment expects to be less than 10% for the next several years. Within the
prevailing interest rate system, MIB has been able to mobilize significant
amounts of domestic funds in the form of deposits, both short-term and long-
term (up to 3 years), to finance its working capital loans (para 4.14). The
prevailing lending rate of 15.5%, however, does not enable financial insti-
tutions such as NIB to raise domestic funds from the market at a longer
term (say, 5 years) through the issuance of bonds (the rate for which ranges
from 17% to 20%). The Bank has expressed to Government authorities its con-
cern that the prevailing 15.5% standard domestic currency lending rate may
be on the low side, in relation to recent inflation and more specifically
to the rate (17% - 20%) at which financial intermediaries could mobilize
private domestic long-term funds. The Government has indicated that it
wishes to further investigate the matter of interest rates and will subse-
quently discuss it with the Bank.
2.08      On the foreign currency side, the lending rate charged by financial
institutions including MIB is generally 10-11%, with the foreign exchange
risk assumed by the sub-borrowers. Considering that the rate of devaluation
has averaged 8% annually since 1967, the nominal rate of 10-11% represents
potentially an effective rate of 18-19%, which does not appear unduly low.
III. NIB - ROLE IN THE ECONOMY
Role in Relation to Other Financial Institutions
3.01      There is a clear demarcation of functions between MIB on the one
hand, and the three other Korean term finance institutions operating in
the industrial sector alongside MIB on the other hand. These institutions
are: (a) the Korea Development Bank (KDB), the largest, a Government-owned
institution assisting relatively large as well as very large industrial
projects in both the public and private sectors; (b) the privately-owned
Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC), which concentrates on financ-
ing relatively large private industrial enterprises; and (c) the Government-
owned Citizens' National Bank (CNB), referred to in para 2.03, which spe-
cializes in making small loans to individuals, households and very small
industries including those of a cottage type.
3.02      The NIB Act confines NIB's financing to "small and medium enter-
prises" defined (as noted in para 2.02) as those with a total number of



-5-
employees or with total assets not exceeding specific limits 1/ determined
from time to time by the Government. At present these limits are (a) re-
spectively 200 for the number of employees and W 50 million 1/ (approximately
$0.1 million) for total assets, concerning MIB's domestic currency financing;
and (b) 200 employees and W 600 million ($1.23 million) for MIB's foreign
currency financing. The above limit of W 50 million, which was set in 1961,
is in the process of being increased by Government regulations to W 300 mil-
lion, in keeping with the steady increase in assets size of SMI enterprises
and the substantial depreciation of the Won since 1961. 2/ Additionally,
under each foreign line of credit obtained by MIB, the Government has set
a specific limit on the amount of individual foreign currency sub-loans
made by MIB; the highest such limit is $1 million, under the latest ADB
loan to MIB. The fact that compliance with just one of the two size limits
(either employees or assets) is sufficient for an enterprise to be eligible
for MIB's financing, is somewhat of a loophole in that it leaves open the
possibility that an enterprise with large assets (that is, exceeding the
prescribed limit) is nevertheless eligible if it has less than 200 employees;
and conversely an enterprise with more than 200 employees is also eligible
if it has assets below the prescribed limit. In actual practice, however,
MIB has restricted its assistance, as a matter of policy, mainly to enter-
prises that remain below both the assets limit and the employees limit. Of
the 492 enterprises to which MIB has made foreign exchange loans, only 9
exceeded slightly the W 600 million assets limit, and only 44 exceeded the
200 employees limit. In all the above instances, NIB remained in compliance
with the Act and related regulations.
3.03      The various size limits mentioned above constitute an official
delineation of functions between MIB and KDB, in that an enterprise remain-
ing within one of these two size limits (either employees or assets) can
borrow from MIB but not from KDB, and conversely an enterprise exceeding
both size limits can borrow from KDB but not from MIB. When an existing
MIB client has grown to exceed both size limits, it ceases to be eligible
for MIB's financing and becomes eligible for KDB's financing. This demarca-
tion is reflected in the actual operations of KDB and MIB. With regard to
foreign currency lending, MIB's individual operations range generally from
$10,000 to $500,000, with a 1974 average of $0.2 million (the historical
average was $125,000), considerably smaller than KDB's foreign currency
loans to private industry which generally range from $0.5 million to $5.0
million, averaging $0.9 million in 1974. There is no formal demarcation
1/   The employees limit and assets limit mentioned in this paragraph apply
to manufacturing enterprises, which constitute the overwhelming bulk
of MIB's portfolio. Slightly different limits apply to other SMI
activities such as mining, transpcrtation and services.
2/   A survey made by MIB in 1974, based on a representative sample of
about 2,400 enterprises with between 100 and 200 employees, indicated
that their average total assets increased from W 50 million in 1961
to W 269 million in 1974.



-6-
between MIB and the privately-owned KDFC, but KDFC like KDB usually finances
relatively large industrial projects whose investment cost ranges from $0.5
million to $5 million. It is clear from the foregoing that MIB finances
enterprises of a size considerably smaller than KDB's and KDFC's, and MIB's
clientele by and large does not overlap with KDB's and KDrC's. At the lower
end of the industrial spectrum, CNB's financing is oriented to individuals,
households and cottage-type industries (those with less than 50 employees),
and the limit on CNB's individual loans is set at present at W 5 million
(approximately $10,000) for individuals and households and W 10 million
($20,000) for small industrial enterprises. CNB does not lend foreign
exchange, thus leaving this business to MIB for the entire SMI sector.
The foregoing indicates that MIB at present is the main institutional
source of term finance in both local and foreign currencies for Korean
enterprises with between 50 and 200 employees, and in effect the sole
source of foreign exchange for all SMI enterprises including the smaller
ones with less than 50 employees. In short, MIB is the predominant insti-
tutional source of term finance for both small- and medium-scale industries
in Korea.
Overall Financing Operations
3.04      From its inception to December 31, 1974, MIB approved financial
assistance aggregating, W 2,844 billion ($5.9 billion equivalent), most of
which for short-term working capital loans. MIB's total approvals of term-
loans to that date aggregated W 85 billion ($175 million). 1/ It began to
make foreign currency loans in important amounts only in 1973, when sub-
stantial foreign exchange resources became available to it. As of
December 31, 1974, MIB's total outstanding loan portfolio (exclusive
of guarantees) stood at W 157.8 billion. MIB's share was about 22% of
total institutional financing for SMI in Korea in the 1972-74 period, on
an outstanding basis (para 24 of Annex 1).  Of the total outstanding amount 1/
of MIB's loan portfolio of W 157.8 billion, W 108.8 billion or about two-
thirds represented working capital loans and the remaining W 49.0 billion
or one-third, term (equipment) loans. Slightly more than one-half (by
amount) of MIB's equipment loans were made in foreign exchange, and the
remainder in domestic currency. Apart from direct lending, MIB also
administers (without financial liability) on behalf of the Government,
the Credit Guarantee Fund (CGF) which provides guarantees to enable small
enterprises with viable investment projects but inadequate collaterals to
borrow from commercial banks and financial institutions including MIB. As
of December 31, 1974, the total of outstanding guarantees under the CGF was
1/   A comparison of approval amounts between short-term and long-term loans
would be misleading because of the wide discrepancy in loan maturities
(about 3-6 months for short-term loans and 5-15 years for long-term
loans). A comparison of outstanding amounts (which is also given in this
paragraph) between these two categories of loans is more relevant.



- 7 -
W 20.2 billion, equivalent to about 15, of MIB's own outstanding loan port-
folio. Taking loans and guarantees together, 1if1B accounts for almost one-
fourth of total institutional financing (i.e. by all banking and financial
institutions) for SIII in Korea. As of year-end 1974, IIIB had 18,570 borrow-
ers with loans outstanding, or almost 70% of the. total number of SMI enter-
prises (about 25,000) operating in Korea. This is one indicator of the
importance of IIIB's assistance to the SMI sector. The characteristics of
NlIB's operations are analyzed in para 4.12 and summarized in the tables in
Annex 2.
3.05      Although as much as two-thirds of NIIB's outstanding loan portfolio
consists of short-term loans (para 3.04), this proportion does not neces-
sarily indicate that MIB's financing has been unduly skewed toward short-
term lending. MIB's clientele generally consists of small labor-intensive
enterprises whose requirements of working capital usually exceed their
requirements of fixed capital. Moreover (para 24 of Annex 1), for Korea's
financial and banking system as a whole, the proportion of term loans is
only about 10% that of short-term working capital loans on an outstanding
basis (para 2.03). Compared with the pattern for Korea as a whole, MIBt's
financing in effect has been oriented toward term lending to a considerably
greater extent.
Extension Services
3.06      Mindful of the vital importance of technical/extension services
in assisting small and medium industries, N4IB has endeavored over time
to build up an effective unit within its organization to undertake this
activity. With the technical and financial assistance of the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the International Labor Organiza-
tion (ILO) since 1967, it has succeeded in doing so. During the period
from 1968 to 1974, UNDP/ILO made available to MIB the services of 14
expatriate advisors, as well as 65 expatriate technical experts (with
expertise in specific SMI activities) working as sub-contractors, both
to train MIB's staff and to undertake direct on-the-spot extension serv-
ices to MIB's clients. MIB's Extension Services Department (ESD), pres-
ently staffed with 32 professionals, has the capability to provide effec-
tive extension services to its clients as well as outside industrialists.
The main element of MIB's technical assistance is "in-plant consultancy"
which, broadly speaking, involves on-the-spot diagnosis by ESD's staff of
technical and managerial problems, and recommendation of remedial measures.
Technical consultancy by ESD covers almost every SMI line of business, in-
cluding notably metal processing, textiles, machine tools manufacturing,
and ceramics. M4anagerial consultancy covers such diverse areas as per-
sonnel organization, financial management, inventory control, and market-
ing. Between 1967 and 1974, ESD has carried out in-plant consultancy for
1,658 SMI enterprises. Of these cases, a proportion of 69% involved tech-
nical problems, 18% managerial problems, and 13% a combination of both. A
random survey by MIB indicates that about 90% of the enterprises which had
received ESD's in-plant consultancy services have implemented ESD's recommend-
ations, or are in the process of doing so.



-8-
3.07      Apart from the in-plant consultancy services referred to above,
which are provided at a nominal fee, MIB undertakes a variety of other
technical services to SMI, the most important of which are: (a) a cor-
respondence service, as a supplement to in-plant consultancy, to deal
with relatively minor technical and/or managerial problems, and which
so far has benefited 1,217 SMI enterprises; (b) "office consultations",
enabling SMI entrepreneurs to obtain technical and financial guidance
from MIB's staff at the head office and all branches; (c) professional
seminars, 281 of which were conducted between 1967 and 1974 for about
12,000 participants; (d) preparation of feasibility studies on specific
SMI activities, which so far has been carried out by MTB on a limited scale
only owing to shortage of qualified staff; 1/ and (e) various periodic
(monthly, quarterly and annually) and ad hoc professional publications (a
list of which is shown in Table 4, Annex 3) which have wide circulation in
the Korean small business community. MIB's technical and extension serv-
ices are summarized in Annex 3.
Economic Impact of MIB's Projects
3.08      An assessment of the overall impact of all projects assisted
by MIB is impossible. First, MIB understandably does not undertake a full
appraisal of projects for which only working capital loans are made, relying
instead on the evaluation of collaterals and borrowers' credit standing; con-
sequently project data on MIB's working capital loans are generally lack-
ing.  Second, for MIBts equipment loans, no systematic compilation of the
actual economic performance (for instance, in terms of employment, value
added and exports) has been made for projects which are already operational.
Nevertheless, data on the 174 projects for which MIB approved foreign cur-
rency loans in the two-year period 1973-74 and based on projections made at
the time of appraisal (Annex 4, Table 1) indicate that these projects have
generated a total investment of W-33.6 billion equivalent. Annual incre-
mental sales attributable to these projects are estimated to average W 70
billion, of which a proportion of 49% ($79.7 million) is expected to be
exported. As a matter of policy, MIB's financing has been highly concen-
trated in export-oriented projects. The direct additional employment gen-
erated by these 174 projects was 22,369, at an average investment cost of
W 1.5 million ($3,800 equivalent 2/). Compared with a national average
investment cost of $5,500 per employee for Korean industry as a whole,
this indicates the labor-intensiveness of MIB's projects. MIB's assistance
to Saemaul (New Community) industries has been significant. Table 3, Annex
4 shows that, up to December 31, 1974, MIB had made loans totalling W 4.8
billion for 207 small industry projects in the Saemaul program, or about
one-half the number of all such projects.
1/  MIB has agreed to step up this activity (para 3.11(d)).
2/  At the exchange rate of W 400 to US$1 which prevailed from January 1,
1973 to December 17, 1974.



-9-
3.09      MIB does not routinely calculate the economic rates of return
(ERR) of the projects it finances. However, an ex-ante calculation on
a representative sample of 20 projects (Annex 4, Table 2) recently approved
by MIB shows that for the vast majority of these projects the estimated ERR
would be in excess of 30%, and the financial rate of return in excess of 20%.
These returns indiate that financial resources at MIB's disposal have gene-
rally been allocated to economically efficient projects.
Resource Mobilization
3.10      MIB has been quite successful in mobilizing domestic private funds
to finance its operations. As noted in para. 4.14 and shown in Annex 8,
Table 1, deposits outstanding with MIB as of December 31, 1974, amounted to
Rp 129.2 billion accounting for as much as 60% of MIB's total assets (Rp 213.2
billion). These deposits came from a large number of small, private de-
positors, numbering almost one million. They consisted of both short-term
(demand) deposits and medium-term deposits (between 1 and 3 years maturity),
and served to finance the totality of MIB's sizeable working capital loan
portfolio. As for the mobilization of domestic resources of longer maturity,
for instance through issuance of bonds for five years or more, it was not meant
to be undertaken directly by MIB, but, as a matter of Government policy, by
specialized institutions such as NIP and IRF (para 4.14), whose functions
are to mobilize long-term public and private savings for on-lending to finan-
cial institutions such as MIB.
Development Strategy
3.11      In consultation with Bank staff, MIB has formulated (Annex 5) a
development program for the next two years, 1976-77, which outlines specific
areas, summarized below, on which MIB intends to place greater emphasis:
(a)  Greater Geographical Dispersal of Portfolio.  MIB will
endeavor to increase the proportion of its lending to
areas outside Seoul and Busan (which areas account for
less than 40% of MIB's existing portfolio, as noted
in para 4.13) to about 50% of its total lending during
the 1976-77 period. It envisages achieving this
objective mainly through intensified efforts by its
branch offices in outlying areas to stimulate projects
and search for investors.
(b). Assistance to Saemaul Industries. MIB will intensify
its assistance, both financial and technical, to rural
industries in the Saemaul program, with a view to
supporting the Government's New Community Movement;
(c)  Intensification of Extension Services.  MIB will con-
tinue gradually to expand the scope of its technical and
extension services including in-plant consultancy services.
For this purpose, an appropriate program for strengthening



- 10 -
the staff of the Extension Service Department for the
period 1970-77 will be implemented; and
(d) Feasibility Studies. MIB intends to step up its
efforts to undertake sector studies, feasibility
and market studies on selected SMI activities, with
a view to identifying suitable investment oppor-
tunities and/or improving the operation of existing
industries.
IV. MIB - INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Legal Framework and Ownership
4.01      NIB is owned by the Government. 1/  Its activities and administra-
tion are governed by the Act establishing MIB in 1961 which provided that
MIB's basic objective was to "promote the economic activities of the small
and medium enterprises and to enhance their economic position". The Act,
as successively amended, sets out general policies and broad guidelines,
supplemented in more detail by Presidential Decrees. In addition, MIB is
subject to the General Banking Act and the control of the Superintendent
of Banks in connection with its commercial banking activities. The Minis-
ter of Finance exercises a broad influence on and supervision over MIB's
general strategy, policies, budgeting and planning through his authority
to approve: (a) MIB's annual Operational Plans; (b) the Operating Manual,
periodically revised, which spells out MIB's operational and administra-
tive procedures in some detail; (c) the Annual Budget; and (d) NIB's annual
accounts and the allocation of its profits. The Ministry of Commerce and
Industry also enjoys a broad influence over NIB's overall policies through
its representation on MIB's Board of Policy (para 4.02).
Organization and Operational Autonomy
4.02      NIB's organization is summarized in the attached Chart.  At the
top of the management structure are a Board of Policy and a Board of
Directors. The composition and respective functions of the two Boards
are given in Annex 6. The Board of Policy deals with broad policy matters,
convenes about four times a year, and comprises seven members including
MIB's President (who acts as Chairman), one representative each from the
Finance Ministry, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Bank of Korea,
the National Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives (referred to in
1/   Except for a very small percentage (about 0.5% of MIB's present paid-
in share capital of W 3.06 billion) of shares originally owned by
private shareholders in the previous Korea Agriculture Bank, a part
of whose assets and liabilities was transferred to MIB at its incep-
tion in 1961. The MIB Act does not allow these private shareholders
to participate in subsequent issues of MIB's shares.



- 1 1 -
para 2.04), and two representatives of small entrepreneurs. 1/ Executive
authority is vested in the Board of Directors, which is also composed of
seven members including MIB's President (acting as Chairman), the Deputy
President and five Directors, each of whom is in charge of one or more
Departments. The Board of Directors usually meets three times weekly to
transact all important business. The dual Board set-up described above is
satisfactory. On the one hand it allows key Government officials and
appropriate representatives of the public to contribute to MIB's broad
policy deliberations in the Board of Policy, facilitating the flow of in-
formation and exchange of views between MIB, the Government and the private
sector. On the other hand, it concentrates executive authority in the Board
of Directors which in effect consists of MIB's senior management team and
is a full-time internal decision-making body, thus preserving MIB's opera-
tional autonomy from undue Government interference. MIB operates within
the ambit of Government policies, but enjoys full autonomy in its opera-
tional decisions.
4.03      The day-to-day management is entrusted to MIB's President, who
is also its chief executive officer. MIB's President since March 1975 is
Mr. Kim Woo-Keun, formerly a Governor of Korea Exchange Bank. He has ex-
tensive experience in banking and financial matters. He is assisted by a
Deputy President and five full-time Directors, all of whom have long ex-
perience with MIB. As of December 31, 1974, MIB's total staff numbered
3,201, of whom about one-fourth were professionals, and about 30% worked
at the head office, with the remaining 70% at 60 branches and 15 deposits
offices scattered throughout the country. The relatively large size of the
staff, particularly at the clerical level, is attributable to the large
number of branches and to MIB's commercial banking operations. The staff
are generally of good calibre. Staff training is thorough and methodical.
The work relating to the proposed Bank loan will be handled mainly by MIB's
Foreign Loan Department (FLD), a well managed though presently understaffed
unit with 42 employees of whom 17 are professionals. MIB's management is
aware of this understaffing and plans to strengthen this Department's staff
in 1975 and 1976, with a view to improving both its appraisal and follow-up
capacity. MIB's plans for strengthening FLD's staff were reviewed and
an understanding reached at negotiations.
Policy Statement and Operating Policies
4.04      To supplement the broad policy guidelines contained in the Act,
MIB adopted in 1969 a Policy Statement outlining in some detail its opera-
tional and financial policies and procedures (Annex 7). This Statement,
which was approved by ADB, is appropriate. The appraisal mission was satis-
fied that MIB's collateral requirements, while in practice adequate to pro-
tect its financial interests, are not unduly restrictive and give due con-
sideration to MIB's developmental role. To further emphasize its immediate
and specific developmental objectives, MIB envisages adopting a Development
Strategy, which is presented in Annex 5 and summarized in para 3.11.
1/   The two representatives of small entrepreneurs are selected by the
Minister of Finance out of a panel of four persons recommended by
the NFMIC.



- 12 -
Appraisal Standards
4.05      MIB's appraisal work in regard to its term-lending operations 1/
is basically satisfactory, without being over-refined. The responsibility
for appraising projects to be financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be centralized in the Foreign Loan Department with, however, part of the
appraisal work to be contributed by the Extension Services Department (with
respect to the technical evaluation) and the Credit Investigation Depart-
ment (regarding the analysis of the borrowers' credit standing). An exami-
nation of a sample of recent appraisal reports produced by the Foreign Loan
Department reveals them to be of generally acceptable standards, especially
in their analysis of collaterals and the technical, financial and marketing
aspects of projects. MIB's appraisal work emphasizes the evaluation of
collaterals and borrower's credit standing as much as, if not more than,
project aspects, an appropriate approach for small business lending. The
main shortcoming in MIB's appraisal work at present is the inadequate
coverage of the project's economic benefits. Following discussions with
the appraisal mission, MIB's management has agreed to correct this defi-
ciency 'through (a) a more systematic and extensive analysis of partial
economic indicators (such as value-added, net balance of payments effect,
employment, etc.), and (b) the calculation of the financial and economic
rates of return (ERRs) for projects above the free limit under the Bank
loan. 2/ The latter understanding was confirmed at loan negotiations.
Follow-Up
4.06      MIB's follow-up work is fully satisfactory and contributes to the
excellent quality of its portfolio (para 4.20). The main responsibility
for project follow-up rests with IIB's local branches, except for projects
financed by MIB's foreign currency loans, the supervision of which is under-
taken jointly by the Foreign Loan Department and the branches. Follow-up
procedures are well thought-out, reporting requirements generally complied
with by MIB's clients, and plant visits by NIB's staff frequent.  The
management is regularly informed of the project's progress, status, and
problems. One shortcoming of MIB's present follow-up system is however
the lack of an evaluation mechanism for determining whether the financial
and economic benefits expected at the time of appraisal were actually
achieved (and, if not, to analyze the causes of variation). An appropriate
system for monitoring the performance of sub-projects under the Bank loan
was discussed and an understanding reached with MIB at negotiations.
1/   For short-term working capital loans, decision-making is based not on
a project appraisal, but on evaluation of collateral and borrowers'
credit standing, a practice in line with commercial banking.
2/   The calculation of ERRs is proposed to be limited initially to projects
above the free limit under the Bank loan because of MIB's staff con-
straints. MIB expects to gradually apply this exercise to projects
financed under other sources of funds as staff capability permits.



- 13 -
Procurement and Disbursement
4.07      MIB's foreign procurement practices follow the requirements of
each particular line of credit. MIB usually requires that procurement be
based on three or more competitive quotations from foreign suppliers, and
that the final import contract be subject to its approval. The price and
suitability of the equipment proposed to be purchased are carefully checked
by the staff, sometimes through the Office of Supply, a Government agency.
Disbursement under MIB's foreign currency loans for imports is made against
letters of credit; that uider its local currency term loans is usually made
upon verification of progress in the project's implementation. The ap-
praisal mission was satisfied that MIB's procurement and disbursement pro-
cedures are suitable.
Operational and Financial Planning
4.08      In accordance with its Act, MIB prepares annually an Operational
Program for the next year, which is subject to prior approval by the Minis-
ter of Finance. The Program contains MIB's proposed operations for the
coming year, and an estimate of resources required and their use. It
serves as the basis for the Government to plan its decisions regarding the
provision of funds (from budgetary and other sources) to MIB for the year
in question. Although the Program's time horizon - one year- is short,
(coinciding with the Government's own budgetary exercise), it represents
an adequate vehicle for MIB and the Government to plan ahead for MIB's
activities and resources. Apart from this formal planning, MIB also pre-
pares five-year business and financial projections.,
Operational Capability
4.09      On the whole, MIB is a well-organized and well-managed institu-
tion, with operational autonomy and capable of making effective use of the
proposed Bank loan. The measures recommended for improving its economic
appraisal (para 4.05) and follow-up (para 4.06), as well as the proposed
strengthening of the Foreign Loan Department's staff (para 4.03), should
further enhance its operational standards. Thanks to the effective tech-
nical assistance it has received from ILO/UNDP since 1968 (para 3.04), MIB
now has the capability to provide adequate technical and extension services
to SMI on a nation-wide basis. It is a measure of the quality of MIB's
staff as well as the success of ILO/UNDP's past assistance program that
MIB's management believes that this program will not need further extension
when it expires in August 1975. MIB's ESD Department, whose staff is being
increased (paragraph 3.11 (d)), has the capacity to sustain and expand MIB's
extension services without requiring outside technical assistance.
Commercial Banking Operations
4.10      MIB provides to SMI the full range of commercial banking services.
These include deposit facilities, foreign exchange transactions, opening of
letters of credit, and issuance of export/import licenses on behalf of the
Government. Its main commercial banking function, however, is the provision



- 14 -
of short-term working capital loans (including overdrafts and bill discounts).
As of December 31, 1974, the total outstanding amount of working capital
loans (for 17,015 clients) was W 108.8 billion, or about one-half of MIB's
total sssets and about twice the total amount of its equipment loans out-
standing (W 49.0 billion). The average outstanding amount of MIB's working
capital loans was W 3.1 million or $6,500 equivalent.  Commercial banking
operations accounted for as much as 75% of MIB's gross income in 1974, and
were financed entirely from demand and time deposits, which totalled W 129.1
billion as at December 31, 1974. The appraisal mission was satisfied that
MIB's extensive commercial banking operations, which are supervised by the
Superintendent of Banks and which conform to the relevant regulations es-
tablished by the Bank of Korea, are undertaken in accordance with sound
banking standards and practices, a fact which is reflected in the remarkably
low level of arrears of MIB's short-term loan portfolio (Table 2, Annex 10).
Term Lending
4.11      Up to 1964, term financing by NIB consisted exclusively of domestic
currency lending. Following an amendment to its Act in 1964, MIB began to
make term loans in foreign currencies. Approvals of term loans (in both
domestic and foreign currencies) have recently increased sharply, reaching
W 19.6 billion ($40 million equivalent) in 1974, about three times the
annual level in 1971-72. As of December 31, 1974, the total outstanding
amount of term loans (1,555 clients) was W 49.0 billion, of which $55
million or 54% represented foreign currency loans. The average size of
MIB's outstanding loans at year-end 1974 was W 19.7 million or about
$41,000 equivalent. As of the same date, the total outstanding amount of
MIB's term loans (W 49.0 billion) accounted for about 70% of the aggregate
outstanding amount of term loans made to SMI by banks and financial insti-
tutions in Korea.
Characteristics of Lending Operations
4.12      Although NIB is empowered to finance non-manufacturing activities
such as mining, construction, transport and services, the overwhelming bulk
(89.0%) of its financing (both long- and short-term) has gone to the highly
export-oriented manufacturing sector. Within this sector, textiles ac-
counted for 30.5% of total loans outstanding as of December 31, 1974. MIB's
wiposure in textiles, although heavy, is not excessive in view of the rela-
tive importance of this sub-sector which accounts for 35% of manufacturing
exports and 25% of industrial value added in Korea. Other important sub-
sectors' receiving NIB's financing are metal products and machinery (20.5%),
clhemicals, rubber and plastics (10.6%), food processing (7.0%) and paper
products (5.3%). The inter-manufacturing sectoral distribution of MIB's
portfolio is satisfactory. The average size of NIB's domestic currency
Long-term loans since inception 'per approval) has been W 14.0 million
(about $29,000), and that of its foreign currency loans, about $125,000.
The average size of NIB's domestic currency term loans, W 14.0 million
(about $29,000), compared with the W 10 million limit on CNB's loans to
industrial enterprises (para 3.03), indicates that within the SMI sector



- 15 -
MIB's financing has not been unduly skewed toward the "medium" as opposed
to the "small" end of industry. The size of MIB's foreign currency loans
has steadily increased, reflecting the rising cost of equipment and the
growing size of industrial projects in Korea, and averaged about $0.2 mil-
lion in 1974. This is nevertheless considerably below the average size
(about $0.9 million) of foreign currency loans made in the same year by
KDB and KDFC, and clearly indicates that MIB directs its financial assis-
tance to enterprises of a size much smaller than those usually financed by
KDB and KDFC (para 3.02).
4.13      NIB's financing is concentrated in the Seoul and Busan areas,
which account for as much as 50% and 12% respectively of MIB's total loans
outstanding (Annex 2, Table 4). This geographical pattern is not out of
line with Seoul's and Busan's share in total manufacturing activity in the
country. 1/ This situation was attributable in part to the absence, until
recently, of adequate Government incentives and policies to encourage
industrial dispersal. A number of measures recently taken by the Govern-
ment, such as the Saemaul program in 1973, the establishment of local in-
dustrial estates and single-trade estates (para 22, Annex 1), are expected
in the long run to bring about a gradual shift away from Seoul and Busan
of industrial enterprises, particularly in the SMI sector. MIB's Develop-
ment Strategy for 1976-77 emphasizes a greater geographical dispersal of
its future financing (para 3.11).
Resources
4.14      Domestic Resources.  MIB's resources are summarized in Annex 8.
A noteworthy feature of MIB's resource structure is heavy reliance on
deposits. As of December 31, 1974, these amounted to W 129.2 billion, of
which W 57.8 billion were time deposits (of over one-year maturity) repre-
senting 64% of MIB's total long-term won resources, and W 71.4 billion
were demand deposits (including the portion of time deposits maturing in
less than a one-year term) representing 88% of NIB's total short-term won
resources. Overall, MIB's deposits accounted for as much as 60% of its
total assets as of December 31, 1974. In accordance with its Policy State-
ment as well as Korean banking regulations, MIB uses its short-term deposits
for financing only short-term working capital loans and its long-term re-
sources (including deposits for over one year) for financing its term loans.
In addition, MIB's deposits are subject to the reserve requirements determined
by the Bank of Korea from time to time (presently 17% for time deposits and
21% for demand deposits).  MIB's practice of matching the maturities of
deposits with those of investments made therefrom, together with the Central
Bank's reserve requirements, ensure that MIB's deposits, in spite of their
magnitude, are employed in a financially prudent manner. MIB's long-term
won resources (other than deposits) are limited, amounting only to W 31.9
billion including its equity capital (W 4.4 billion), borrowings from the
Government (W 15.5 billion), and loans from the Industrial Rationalization
1/   Seoul and Busan together account for 63.2% of Korean industry in terms
of employment and 60% in terms of value added in 1972.



- 16 -
Fund (IRF) 1/ (W 10.5 billion) and from the National Investment Fund (NIF) 2/
(W 1.5 billion).
4.15      Foreign Currency.  MIB obtained its first foreign line of credit
from KfW of Germany in 1965. Since then, it has received 10 foreign loans
totalling $112 million (Annex 8, Table 2) of which $55 million came from
three ADB loans made in 1969, 1971 and 1973 respectively, $40 million from
the Export-Import Bank and OECF of Japan, $10 million from KfW of Germany,
and $7 million from USAID. Of the above-mentioned foreign loans, those
from ADB and the Japanese OECF were obtained directly by MIB, while the
others were obtained by the Government and on-lent to MIB. MIB passes on
the foreign exchange risk to the sub-borrowers under all those foreign lines
of credit. As of July 31, 1975, MIB has substantially committed all its
available foreign currency resources including the latest ADB loan made to
it in 1973. MIB consequently needs the proposed Bank loan shortly to con-
tinue its foreign currency lending.
Financial Condition
4.16      MIB's financial statements for the period 1971-74 are presented
in Annex 9. As of December 31, 1974, total assets amounted to W 213 bil-
lion ($439 million) of which the outstanding loan portfolio was W 159 bil-
lion or 74.0% of total assets. Apart from an inadequate equity base
(para 4.18), MIB's overall financial condition is satisfactory, and is
reflected in a portfolio of excellent quality (para 4.20). The debt serv-
ice cover averaged about 1.4 for the 1971-74 period, with the current ratio
ranging from .1.6 to 1.9. NIB's profitability has been modest, averaging
slightly over 7% of net worth in the same period. This low profitability
does not reflect inefficiency but rather is attributable to the fact that,
as a Government-owned development institution, MIB undertakes a range of
developmental functions which are not primarily profit-oriented; (its
extension services, for instance, are provided at a nominal fee); and main-
tains a large network of 60 branch offices and 15 deposit offices to serve
1/   IRF was set up as a Government Fund in 1972 and is administered by KDB,
to finance basic industries including those producing essential con-
sumer goods, intermediate products, machinery and exportable products,
and agro-based activities such as fisheries. IRF's resources consist
mainly of borrowings from the Government, Industrial Finance Debentures
issued by IRF, and borrowings from foreign sources.
2/   NIF.was established by the Government in December 1973 to help finance
"major industries," and power and energy industries. NIF's resources
will be mobilized mainly by issuance of NIF-Bonds purchased by banks,
savings institutions and pension and trust funds, and the remainder by
direct Government subscriptions. The funds will be on-lent through
the banking system and financial institutions including MIB to finance
investments in fixed assets (about two-thirds) and for working capital
needs (about one-third).



- 17 -
outlying areas of the country. In agreement with ADB, MIB began--recently
to make annual appropriations of not less than 5% of its anp.Wal net profits
to a "Special Reserve" (not available for dividend dit.4bution) which, as
of December 31, 1974, amounted to W 500 million <o- .5% of total outstand-
ing portfolio.  MIB however has not, so far, made provisions for doubtful
accounts. In spite of the excellent quality of MIB's portfolio (para 4.20),
it would be consistent with sound banking practice for MIB to make pro-
visions for doubtful accounts, so as to enable it to write off eventual
bad debts without having to reduce its net worth. Following discussions
with the appraisal mission, NIIB has agreed to make provisions for 1975 and
thereafter. This understanding was confirmed during negotiations.
Proposal for Strengthening Capital Structure
4.17      MIB's present under-capitalization is reflected in a high debt/
equity ratio. As of December 31, 1974, its net worth amounted to about
W 4.4 billion (of which W 3 billion represented the paid-in share capital,
and W 1.4 billion, reserves and retained earnings). As of the same date,
its long-term debt stood at W 113.9 billion (inclusive of time deposits
of W 57.8 billion and long-term guarantees (W 1.1 billion), giving a long-
term debt/equity ratio of 23.8:1. 1/ Total indebtedness inclusLve-f-shnort-
term liabilities and demand deposits) amounted to W 211.4 billion, reflect-
ing a total debt/equity ratio of 46.0:1. (Under MIB's latest loan agree-
ment with ADB, the limit on MIB's long-term debt was set at 10 times its net
worth, defined as inclusive of a portion of Government loans.) The appraisal
mission had intensive discussions with the Government and MIB's management
on measures for strengthening MIB's capital structure, and recommended a sub-
stantial increase in MIB's equity base. As a result of these discussions,
the Government gave the Bank its assurance, in the form of an official letter
(shown in Annex 11), that it would (a) provide MIB with at least W 10 billion
(about 3.3 times MIB's present paid-in capital) of additional share capital
in 1975-76, in the form of new cash subscription and/or conversion into
NfIB's share capital of part of the existing Government loans; and (b) give
MIB additional equity capital as needed in the future to enable MIB to keep
its long-term debt/equity ratio (as defined in para 4.18) below 10:1. When
implemented, the share capital increase of W 10 billion will help improve
MIB's capital structure to a satisfactory degree, as indicated in the fol-
lowing paragraph.
4.18      In the light of the foregoing, a long-term debt/equity limit of
10:1 is recommended.  The Bank loan agreement would define "equity" so as
to exclude from it all existing Government loans and include in "debt"
these Government loans as well as all time deposits with maturity in ex-
cess of one year. The Government and MIB would have until December 31, 1976
to bring MIB's long-term debt/equity ratin, which at present exceeds the
10:1 limit by a considerable margin (para 4.17), back within the agreed
limit. The proposed 10:1 limit, although relatively high for development
1/   Under the Bank's proposed definition of debt and equity given in para
4.18.



- 18 -
banks, is justi-fied on the grounds of MIB's overall operational capability
and financial soufndness and the high quality of its portfolio. With the
implementation of the-W-10 billion share capital increase proposed in the
preceding paragraph, MIB's t4Ag-term debt/equity ratio is projected to
improve from 23.8:1 as of year-end 1974 to 9.7:1 at year-end 1976 and
thereafter to decline gradually to 8.1:1 in 1979.  The total debt/equity
ratio would range from 18.8:1 to 15.4:1 in 1976-79, which is not excessive
for an institution engaged in commercial banking operations. 1/
4.19      Despite MIB's extensive short-term liabilities (in the form of
short-term deposits), an additional limitation on its short-term indebted-
ness specifically would be unnecessary in view of the fact that (a) with
respect to its deposits, MIB is subject to the Central Bank's reserve re-
quirements (para 4.14) which have the specific objective of ensuring that
MIB lhas adequate liquidity to service its deposits, and, (b) more generally,
MIB's short-term commercial banking operations are subject to the Central
Bank's control and regulations to the same extent as those undertaken by
commercial banks.
7 Quality of Portfolio
4.20      The >rightes-t aspect of MIB's financial position is the quality
of its portfolio (Annex 10). As of December 31, 1974, total arrears (of
principal and interest) amounted to W 5.5 billion, representing 3.5% of
the total outstanding portfolio (both short-term and long-term loans). The
principal affected by arrears was W 7.0 billion, or 4.4% of the total out-
standing portfolio. This level of arrears is remarkably low for a lending
institution with 14 years of operation, and assisting the small business
sector. The good repayment performance of MIB's borrowers is reflected in
both MIB's short-term loan portfolio (with principal affected by arrears
representing 3.0% of this portfolio) and its long-term loan portfolio (with
principal affected by arrears amounting to 7.6% of this porftolio). Write-offs
have been negligible in the past, averaging W 82 million a year for the 1971-74
period. The excellent condition of MIB's portfolio and repayment performance
of its borrowers are attributable in part to MIB's good appraisal and efficient
supervision work and the strength of the Korean economy in recent years.
Terms and Conditions of Lending
4.21      The lending rates charged by NIB are given in Table 1, Annex 1.
On the foreign currency side, MIB usually charges its sub-borrowers two
percentage points above its borrowing rates and always passes on the ex-
change risk to the sub-borrowers. On the domestic currency side, the rate
1/   By way of comparison, a number of well-established commercial banks
in the United States have a total debt/equity ratio in excess of 20:1.
The ratio for some Korean commercial banks exceeds 100:1.



- 19 -
on term loans financed by MIB from Government funds ranges from 10.0% to
15.5%, depending on the nature of the industry and of the funds, while the
rate on both term loans and working capital loans financed by MIIB's own
funds (including its deposits) is 15.5%, which is at present the standard
commercial bank rate. The weighted average borrowing rate on MIB's deposits
was about 9.3% in 1974 (taking all demand and time deposits together), which
gave MIB a substantial spread of about 6.2% on the use of its deposits. MIB's
foreign currency sub-loans usually have maturities between 8 and 14 years with
two years of grace, and its Won term loans between 5 and 8 years with 1 - 2
years of grace. MIB's working capital loans generally have a term of 1 - 2
years.
Audit
4.22      In addition to an audit undertaken by Government auditors, MIB's
accounts have been audited since 1965 by Chung-Un Accounting Company, a
private Korean firm professionally connected with Touche Ross, an inter-
nationally known accounting firm. Chung-Un has been accepted as MIB's
auditors by MIB's foreign creditors including ADB and USAID. The appraisal
mission was satisfied that Chung-Un's audit reports on MIB were of accept-
able standards. Nevertheless, with a view to strengthening further Chung-
Un's audit for the purpose of the Bank's lending to MIB, the Bank has
proposed, and all parties concerned have accepted, that Chung-Un prepare
a detailed audit program to be subjected to review and approval by Touche
Ross for use in MIB's future audits.
Business Prospects and Resource Requirements
4.23      Annex 12 presents the forecast of MIB's operations for the five-
year period 1975-79, including its financial projections. Commitments of
equipment (i.e. long-term) loans in both domestic and foreign currencies
are projected to grow at an annual rate of 20% from W 19 billion in 1974
(actual) to W 45 billion ($93 million) in 1979. Commitments of short-term
loans are projected to grow at the same annual rate of 20%, from W 610.3
billion in 1974 (actual) to W 1,604.1 billion in 1979. This projected
growth rate appears realistic and attainable, and is below the actual
growth rate of MIB's commitments in the 1971-74 period, which was over 42%
for equipment loans and about 22% for short-term working capital loans.
NIB's existing and prospective operational capacity is adequate to enable
it to undertake its projected operations.
4.24      MIB's commitments of long-term won loans totalling W 86.9 billion
for the period 1975-79 are expected to be financed with the following re-
sources:



- 20 -
Won in Billion
Share capital increases                   18.6
Loan collections (net)                    19.9
New borrowings from NIF                   35.9
Net long-term resources available
as of December 31, 1974                 12.5
Total                          86.9
The above table indicates that MIB will need to borrow sizeable amounts
of long-term won resources from NIF or other Government sources in order
to carry out its lending program for 1975-79. During loan appraisal and
negotiations, Government officials have indicated that adequate long-term
won resources from NIF or other official sources will be made available to
MIB, on a year-to-year basis. To finance its short-term working capital loans
for the same five-year period, projected at W 5,488 billion, MIB expects
to raise W 224 billion of additional deposits and obtain refinancing facili-
ties from BOK totalling W 502 billion, together with collections on its
working capital loans estimated at W 4,762 billion.
4.25      Based on its projected operations, MIB would need to borrow $175
million to finance its commitments of foreign currency loans for the period
1975-79, an average of about $35 million per year. As noted in para. 4.15,
MIB's traditional foreign currency lenders have been ADB, KfW, the Export-
Import Bank and OECF of Japan. 1/ In seeking the proposed Bank loan, the
Government and MIB intended to diversify MIB's sources of foreign exchange
in order to meet MIB's expanding requirements for import financing. MIB's
intention for the next few years is to borrow in alternative years from the
Bank and ADB to cover a major proportion of its foreign currency requirements,
with the balance to be covered by prospective borrowings from the other
sources mentioned above.
Financial Projections
4.26      Taking into account the proposed W 10 billion share capital in-
crease (para 4.17) and subsequent projected increases, MIB's financial
position and earnings performance are expected to remain satisfactory
throughout the projected period up to 1979. Its total assets are forecast
to increase from W 213.2 billion at year-end 1974 to W 598.4 billion in
1979, at a compounded growth rate of 23% p.a., with the total loan port-
folio increasing from W 157.8 billion to W 442.1 billion. Equipment loans
are expected to grow faster than working capital loans on an outstanding
basis, and their share of total assets would go up from 23.0% in 1974 to
27.3% in 1979. MIB's financial position, as projected, will remain sound,
1/   Not including USAID, which made two loans to MIB totalling US$7 million
in 1966-67, but whose lending to development banks such as MIB has
recently been considerably curtailed.



- 21 -
with the debt service coverage averaging 1.5, the current ratio remaining
at or above 1.3, and the long-term debt/equity ratio improving from 23.8:1
at year-end 1975 to 9.7:1 in 1976 and thereafter to 8.1:1 in 1979. MIB's
earnings performance is also expected to improve, from 7.5% of average net
worth in 1974 to 17.1% in 1979.
V. THE LOAN - OBJECTIVES AND FEATURES
Objectives of the Loan
5.01      Economic Benefits.  The proposed loan will contribute to further
expand Korea's small- and medium-sized manufacturing industries, which
constitute an important sector in the country's economy, especially in
terms of export earnings and employment (para 2.02). As stated in para 3.09,
a sample of recent MIB projects shows economic rates of return generally
in excess of 30%. The projects to be financed under the proposed loan,
although not as yet identified, are expected to achieve similar economic
results. Based on the employment data on past MIB-financed projects
(para 3.08), the projects to be financed under the proposed loan are expected
to generate about 18,000 additional direct jobs. MIB's overall lending
operations, including those under the proposed loan, are expected to be
directed to regions outside the Seoul and Busan metropolitan areas to a
greater extent than in the past (para 3.11 (a)), thus helping to accelerate
industrial deconcentration in the country. Finally, lending to MIB con-
currently with KDFC and KDB, which together account for about two-thirds
of total term lending in Korea and cover the full spectrum of Korean in-
dustries (small, medium and large), will enable the Bank to enhance its
positive contribution to the industrial sector, on which the country's
economy depends heavily for its continued growth. The magnitude of the
demand for term finance in Korea is such that these three institutions,
even if their operations increase significantly, will continue to act in a
complementary rather than a competitive manner.
5.02   Institutional Improvements.  With its operational capability, MIB
is expected to make effective use of Bank funds. Although MIB is already
a well-organized and efficient institution, the proposed loan would enable
the Bank to help MIB achieve further specific institutional improvements.
The Bank's recommendation for increasing MIB's share capital, to which the
Government has agreed (para 4.17), will considerably strengthen MIB's capital
structure and financial position. Further improvements in MIB's appraisal
(para 4.05) and follow-up standards (para 4.06), and a sharper focus on its
immediate developmental objectives (para 3.11), are also specific objectives
under the proposed loan. The Bank's institution-building impact on MIB is
expected to deepen with a continuing relationship.
Main Features of the Loan
5.03      Relending Rate.  MIB is expected to relend the proceeds of the
loan at the rate of 10.5%, with the foreign exchange risk assumed by the



- 22 -
sub-borrowers. The proposed 10.5% relending rate is appropriate. On the
one hand, the spread to MIB of 2 percentage points is not excessive. On the
other hand, considering that the sub-borrowers bear the exchange risk and
that the rate of devaluation has averaged about 8% annually since 1967
(para 2.08), the nominal 10.5% rate represents an effective rate of 18.5%,
which does not appear unduly low.
5.04      Amortization Schedule.  As usual with Bank loans to DFCs, the
proposed loan would have a flexible amortization schedule which would con-
form substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the
sub-loans made by MIB to its clients. MIB's experience with its past
foreign currency lending suggests that the loan will be fully amortized
within a period of about 16 years, including a grace period of 3 years.
5.05      Free Limit.  In view of the basically satisfactory quality of MIB's
appraisal work, a free limit of $0.5 million is recommended. (The free limit
set by ADB in 1973 under its latest loan to MIB was $0.3 million). An
analysis of recent foreign exchange loans made by PIB suggests that with
the proposed free limit about one fifth of the number of sub-projects under
this loan (accounting for over one-third of the loan amount) would require
prior approval by the Bank.
5.06      Ceiling on Size of Sub-Loans and Size of Sub-Borrowers.  To ensure
that the proposed loan would be used to finance a relatively large number
of small- and medium-sized projects, a ceiling of $1 million on each sub-
loan made by MIB under the proposed Bank loan is recommended. (The same
as that set by the Government for MIB's sub-loans, under the latest ADB
loan to MIB). In addition, it is recommended that MIB's financing under
the Bank loan be confined to enterprises with total assets not exceeding
W600 million at the time of their application to MIB. As noted in para 3.03,
the average size of MIB's recent foreign currency operations was $0.2 mil-
lion. Taking into account the continued increase in the cost of industrial
equipment, it is expected that the average size of MIB's sub-loans under
the proposed loan would be about $0.3 million. Consequently, the Bank loan
($30 million) would finance approximately 100 projects.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a)  a limit of 10:1 on MIB's long-term debt/equity ratio
(Section 4.05 of Loan Agreement) to be achieved prior
to December 31, 1976; and
(b)  a free limit of $0.5 million on sub-loans (Section 2.02(b)
of Loan Agreement.
6.02      The Government's undertaking that it would provide MIB with at
least W4 10 billion of additional share capital prior to December 31, 1976,
and subsequently with additional equity capital as needed in the future to



- 23 -
keep MIB's long-term debt/equity ratio within 10:1 (para 4.17), was con-
firmed during negotiations and recorded in a supplemental letter.
6.03      In addition to the above, the following matters were discussed
and understandings reached (recorded in agreed minutes):
(a)  MIB's development strategy (para 3.11);
(b) plans for strengthening the staff of MIB's Extension
Services Department (para 3.11(c) and its Foreign Loan
Department (para 4.03);
(c) the calculation of economic rates of return for
selected projects (para 4.05);
(d) a system for monitoring the actual performance of
sub-projects financed by the Bank loan (para 4.06);
(e) the establishment of provisions for bad debts (para 4.16);
(f) arrangements for strengthening MIB's audit system and
acceptance by the Bank of Chung-Un Accounting Company
as MIB's auditor (para 4.20); and
(g)  a ceiling of $1 million on the size of individual sub-
loans, and a limit of W 600 million on total assets of
eligible sub-borrowers (para 5.06).






ANNEX 1
MEDIUM rNDUSITRY BUNK
The Korean Econom  and the Small and Medium Industry Sector
A.  Tile Korean Sector
1.        Background.  Tne Korean economy, spearheaded by the highly
export-oriented manufacturing sector, has shown impressive perforrmance in
recent years.  However, after growing at about 12%O p.a. in real terms
in the second half of the 1960s. the econom.y began to encounter difficulties
in the 1970-72 period due to the increasingly large deficits on the current
account of the balance of paynents and the need to reduce the expansion
of external debt. During that period, the average annual real GNP growth
rate dropped sharply to 8%, although this was still a good performance
compared with that of most other developing countries. Business profits
were seriously affected.  Excess capacity also began to develop in some
industrial sectors even though the ratio of fixed investment to GNP declined
from 29% in 1969 to 20% in 1972. In August 1972 the Government toolc strong
measures which successfully stabilized the economy and substantially
strengthened the financial structure of many business firms. With relative
domestic price stability and excess capacity as a result of the 1970-72
slowdown, Korean industry was able to take full advantage of the remarkable
boom in world-wide demand for industrial goods in 1973.  Commodity exports
nearly doubled in 1973 reaching over $3.2 billion; manufactured goods
accounted for nearly 90% of the total. Imports increased by 71% and the
current account deficit amounted to only $309 million or less than 3% of
GNP. Foreign exchange reserves exceeded $1 billion and external debt
service fell to 14% of exports of goods and non-factor services from 19.2i
in 1972. Real GNP grew at a record rate of 16.5%, domestic savings for
the first tine exceeded 20% of (NP and fixed investment increased by 29%
after virtual stagnation in the previous three years.
2.        Performance in 1974.  The remarkable performance in 1973 had
exceeded all expectations; however, such a pace was not sustainable beyond
the short-term and in the fourth quarter of 1973 strains had already
begun to develop. Prices, which had remained relatively stable since the
August 1972 measures, began to increase more rapidly, and industrial
production slowed down as raw material supplies became constrained. In
addition, the steep rise in petroleum prices sharply increased Korea's
external resource requirements and clouded the outlook for continued growth
in export demand.
1/  For a detailed discussIon and analysis of the Korean economy,
refer to the report of the latest Bank economic mission entitled
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Republic of Korea"
(No. 768-KO, dated May 28, 1975).



ANTNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Despite these adverse effects, the Korean economy achieved a
real growth rate of 8.6% in 1974, or close to the 9% target contained
in the Government's Long-Term Development Strategy, and higher than the
revised Third Four-Year Plan target of 8%. However, most of the growth
was concentrated in the first half of the year, as the full impact of
the energy crisis and the world-wide economic slowdown began to make
itself felt from mid-1974. Although the value of commodity exports
increased by about 38%, virtually all of that was due to price increases;
since domestic consumption was also sluggish, manufacturing inventories
increased by about 46% compared with a slight decline in 1973. Cosmmodity
imports increased by 67% in nominal terms (7% in real terms) mainly as
a result of the sharp increases in oil and grain prices. The deteriora-
tion in the terms of trade (18%) was sharper than expected.  The current
account deficit was $2.0 billion or nearly double the $1.1 billion
projected at the beginning of the year. Due to the deteriorating balance
of payments situation and the poor outlook for Korea's exports in the
light of the deepening world-wide recession, the Government has recently
encountered considerable difficulty in raising funds to finance its
external capital requirements. bhe increase in domestic prices which had
begun at the end of 1973 accelerated and the wholesale price index rose
by 45% during the year. Real domestic prices which had begun at the end
of 1973 accelerated and the wholesale price index rose by 4;5% during
the year. Real domestic fixed investment grew by only 7.5% as finished
goods inventories were built up and excess capacity began to reappear.
4.        December 1974 Economic Measures. In view of the balance of
payments situation and the general economic slowdown, the Government
introduced in December 1974 a number of economic measures which included
the devaluation of the won by 17.5% in dollar terms, the raising of
public utility rates and oil prices, price control over many essential
commodities and accelerated Government budgetary expenditures to stimulate
the economy. Interest rates on bank deposits were temporarily raised
to a uniform rate of 15% regardless of maturity in order to promote savings
and increase the availability of finance for business (see para 38).   The
Government will also provide business firms with special loans amounting
to about W150 billion, of which W50 billion would be to help them meet
their increased foreign debt service obligations, W50 billion to replace
worn-out equipment and for new investment, and W50 billion for small and
medium industry. New investment using domestically produced goods will
be eligible for special depreciation allowances.  The Government will use
its Stockpile Fund to buy excess stocks of certain manufactured goods,
such as textiles and plywood, which have been badly hit by the economic
slowdown. Higher priority will be given to Government procurement of
small and medium industry products.
5.        Prospects for Growth. Although it is still too early to assess
the impact of these measures, the Government hopes to achieve a GNP growth
rate of 7% in 1975, and to keep the current account deficit below $2 billion.
An ambitious export target of $6 billion has been set, representing a 40%
increase in nominal terms over 1974; import growth is to be held dowi to
about 25%. These targets represent a considerable downward revision from
the Third Five-Year Plan projections; actual performance, however, will
depend to a large extent on the speed of recovery of Korea's major trading



AvNNEX 1
page 3
partners, particularly Japan and the United States. Indications are that
export firms have used the won devaluation to strengthen their financial
position rather than to reduce prices in the face of a slack in export
demand. The Government plans to reduce the rate of inflation to 20% in
1975; this is essential if Korea is to maintain the competitiveness of
its products in the international market. Real domestic fixed investment
will probably continue to be sluggish in 1975, but it is expected that when
the international economic outlook improves and export demand revives,
industries will quickly implement plans to expand capacity and modernize
production processes. On balance the 1974 performance shows that the
Korean economy has been able to withstand the initial impact of the energy
crisis without serious consequences for its long-term growth objectives.
Much of that resilience was due to the exceptional performance of 1973.
However, the outlook for 1975 is still uncertain with the balance of
payments again giving the main cause for concern. If external conditions
are favorable it can be expected that the economy will return to its
long-term growth path of 8-9% in 1976 and beyond.
B. The Industrial Sector
6.        The Role of Industry in the Economy.  Since the early 1960s
manufacturing has been the fastest growing sector in the Korean economy
with an average annual growth rate of 19% over the last five years,
accounting for 48% of the increase in GNP during that period. Its share
in GNP has increased from 21.6% in 1970 to 30.5% in 1974. In 1973 exports
of manufactured goods amounted to over $2.8 billion or 88% of total
commodity exports compared with $695 million and 83% in 1970. Imports
of machinery and equipment amounted to $1.15 billion and raw materials for
exports to $1.55 billion in 1973; imports of ravy materials for industrial
products sold on the domestic market added another $791 million to the
import bill in the same year. Nearly two million persons or about 14% of
the labor force were employed in the manufacturing sector in 1974. Not-
withstanding its enormous contribution to GNP, exports and employment, the
manufacturing sector accounted on average for only about 20% of total
domestic fixed capital formation during 1970-73. As an indication of how
efficiently the manufacturing sector has been using the economy's scarce
capital resources, the marginal capital-output ratio for manufacturing
investment fell from an already low average level of 1.4 during 1967-71
to 1.2 in 1972.
7.        Current Performance.  M4anufacturing sector value added increased
by 16;2% in real terms in 1974.  Although this represents a sharp decline
from the record increase of 31% in 1973 -,nanufacturing still maintained its
dominant position as the leading growth sector is the economy. Exports of
goods were seriously affected by the world-wide economic slowdown in 1974
and showed virtually no growth in real terms; however, price increases
raised the value of manufactured goods exports by nearly 40% and the share oL



ANNEX 1
Page 14
manufactured goods in total exports increased from 88% in 1973 to nearly
90% in 1974. 1/   Since the export of manufactured goods more than doubled
in 1973, it was to be expected that growth in real terms in 1974 would
be sluggish; in view of the international economic situation, especially
in the U.S. and Japan, Korean manufacturers have done well to maintain
the level of exports achieved in 1973.
C.  Tne Small and Medium Industry Sector
De _;inition
8.        In Korea small and medium industries (STi-) are officially defined
on the basis of employment and asset size.  Under the &iall Industry Basic
Act and the &riall and Medium Industry Cooperatives Act, mining, manufacturing
and transportation SMI's are defined as enterprises with less than 200
regular employees or with total assets of less than W50 million. 2/ The
Medium Industry Bank Act applies the same definition except that mining and
transportation S4I have an upper limit of 300 regular emnployees.  Within
the S-i sector there is no official distinction between small-scale and
medium-scale enterprises. For the purpose of policy formulation and
institutional responsibility, both categories are treated together. However,
a breakdown of industries in the SMI by size of employment is available
in EPB's Annual Mining and Manufacturing Survey.  This breakdown covers SMI
that employ five or more workers only.
The Role of SKI in the Korean Economy
9.        In 1972, the latest year for which comprehensive manufacturing
survey data are available, there were 22,896 small and medium manufacturing
enterprises accounting for 96.5% of the total number of manufacturing firms.
3uall and medium industries in 1972 employed 45% of the labor force in
manufacturing and accounted for 28% of total value added in manufacturing
1967                    1972
S,I  Large   Total    SMI   Large   Total
No. of Establishments ('000)      23.4    0.4    23.8    22.9    0.8    23.7
(%O)                              98.2    1.8   1 oo.o    96.5    3.5   100.0
No. of Enployees ('000)           381    267    648      440    533    973
(%)                               58.8   41.2   100.0    45.3  54.7   100.0
Value Added (W billion)           81.5  125.7   207.2   251.0  648.4   100.0
(%)                               39.3   60.7   100.0    27.9   72.1   100.0
Value Added per Employee
(W'0°0)                        214 i  471      320     570   1,216    924
67    147     100.0   62       132    100.0
1/  Customs clearance basis.
2/  A sample survey of 2,400 enterprises employing 100 to 200 workers conducted
by MIB in 1974 revealed that average investment in these enterprises was
W269 million. The NIB has recently recommended to the Government that the
definition of SMI be revised upwards to include manufacturing enterprises
with total assets of less than W300 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
10.       As shown in the foregoing table the relative share of SMI
in total employment declined from 59% in 1967 to 45% in 1972. This is
attributable partly to the Government's development strategy, adopted
in the Second Five-Year Plan (1967-71), which emphasized the role of large-
scale enterprises in the manufacturing sector. Large-scale operations
were encouraged on the grounds of economies of scale and better competi-
tiveness in the export markets. Another factor was the very rapid growth
of the manufacturing sector as a whole (employment increased at an annual
average rate of 8%, while value added in current prices increased by 34%).
Under these circumstances many of the small and medium industries were
expanding their employment and moving into the large-scale groups as
shown by the fact that the average nurnber of workers employed by SMI units
increased from 16 in 1967 to 19 in 1972. One indicator of the viability
of SMI is the fact that the growth in labor productivity among SMI has
not lagged behind that of large-scale firms: value added per worlker
increased by over 166% between 1967 and 1972, compared with 158% for large-
scale industries over the same period. Furthermore, a sample survey of 828
enterprises by the Korea Development Bank shows that in 1972, the rate of
return on the assets of the SMI in the survey was on the average higher
than that of large-scale enterprises.
11.       Exports of SMI.  The export performance of SMI has been out-
standing; indeed the share of SMI in manufactured goods exports has been
considerably greater than its relative share in the value added of manu-
facturing enterprises as a whole. In 1969, the share of the SMI in total
exports was 36%, most of it accounted for by the members of the National
Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives. As shown in the table, the
share of members of these export cooperatives has been well above one-third
of total merchandize exports throughout the 1969-74 period in spite of the
rapid expansion of large-scale industry in the period. As a percentage
of total manufactured goods exports, manufactured goods exports of these
SMI have averaged about 44% over the last five years.
Exports of Medium Industry Cooperatives
(US$ million)
1969     1970     1971      1972    1973   1974
Total merchandize exports 1/        623      835    1,068    1,624   3,225  4,460
Exports of manufactured goods 1/   528       695       929    1,445   2,847  3,981
Exports of medium industry
cooperatives 2/                  165      323       437      653   1,214  1,640
As percent of total exports         26.5     38.7      40.9     40.2    37.6   36.8
As percent of manufactured goods
exports                          31.3     46.5      47.0     20.2    42.6   41.2
1/  EPB, Revised trade data (August 1975) customs clearance basis.
2/ Members of the National Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives only.
(National Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives data).



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Exports of SMI have been heavily concentrated in textiles and wearing
apparel, particularly knitted goods. In 1967, 51I accounted for nearly
42% of the total value added in this industry; 35% of the total value
added in food, beverages and tobacco, and 56% of the value added in the
metal and machine equipment industry. These three industries accounted
for over 58% of total value added by all manufacturing enterprises in
1967. Although the relative share of SN4I has since declined steadily,
it remains substantial, representing 17% of total value added in 1972 as
compared with 25% in these three important industry groups. Other strong
performers are electronic and electrical equipment, handicrafts and wigs.
As mentioned earlier, the increased export orientation of SMI was one of
the objectives of the Government's promotional efforts.  The results seem
to show that SLI in Korea are highly responsive to incentives in this
respect. 1/
12.       Structure of SMI.  The table on page 7 shows the change in the
structure of S1I during the 1967-72 five-year period.  Despite the very
rapid growth of the manufacturing sector as a whole, the overall structure
of employment and value added of SMI and large-scale enterprises remained
remarkably stable. Both in 1967 and in 1972, 58% of total value added and
over 60% of total emnployment originated in the food, beverages, textiles,
apparel, metal and machinery industries. Among the SMI, the share of these
industries in total employment and value added remained about 60% in both
1967 and 1972 . The larger enterprises among the SEI showed a greater
concentration away from the textiles, machinery and equipment industries
in 1967 to food processing, chemicals and plastics industries in 1972
mainly as a result of gains in productivity in the latter group of industries.
Large-scale firms wereain 1967 concentrated in the food and beverages,
textiles and chemical and plastics industries, accounting for nearly 44%
of total value added in manufacturing. In 1972 this, share was increased
to 49%. Among individual industries, the share of the large-scale firms
in total value added and employment, increased faster than that of S14I.
1/  A recent survey conducted by MIB for 1973 showed that the greatest
difficulty with SII according to the sample survey were in marketing,
finance, raw materials, technology and labor in that order of severity.
Thus, while about 30.4% of those surveyed indicated that marketing
was their greatest problem, only 26.8% cited finance, 2L.3% raw
materials, 2.3% technology and 1.5% labor.



ANTIEX 1
Structure of Manufacturing Sector in 1967 and 1972             Page 7
(In current billion won)
1967               _              1972
Employment           Value         FEployment        Value
('000's)     A     Added  _L        ('ooo's)    %  Added   %
Food, Beverages, tobacco               85        13        L     2        137        14  225   _2
SMI                            57          9      17       8       71         7   62      7
Large                          286        4       32      16       66         7  163    18
Textiles, Apparel, Leather           214                                  31 48  23  37  33  186    21
SMI                           117         18      21      10      129        14   53      6
Large                          97         15      27      13      188        19  133    15
Wood and Furniture                    33          5        8      4        45         4   38      4
SKI                            22          3       5       2       22         2    9      1
Large                          11          2       3       2       23         2   29      3
Paper and Printing                    38          6       12      6        L          6   45      5
SMI                            25          4       6       3       33         3   17      2
Large                          13          2       6       3       24         3   28      3
Chemicals, Petroleum, Coal,
Rubber and Plastics                   71         11       40     19       112        12  188    21
SMI                            33          5       9       4       40         4   40      5
Large                          38          6      31      15       72         8  148    16
Non-Metallic Minerals                 47          7       14      7        45             47     5
SMI                            24          5       5       3       28         3   19      2
Large                          13         2        9       4       17         2   28      3
BaBic Metals                          26          4        8      4        28         3   35     4
SMI                            10          1       3       2       10         1    6      1
Large                          16         3        5       2       18         2   29      3
Metal Products, Machinery &
Equipment                            105         16       24     12       172        18  115    13
SKI                            67         6       14       7       84         9   37      4
Large                          38        10       10      5        88         9   78      9
Other Manufacturing                   30          5        4      2        60        6   20      2
SKI                            17          3       2       1       2 
Large                          13          2       2       1       37             1       1
Total                          649       100      207    100       973       100  899   100
Totals may not add up to 100 due to rounding.
Source:  EPB Report on Mining and Manufacturing Survey, 1967,1972.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
13.       Regional Distribution of SMI.  Small-scale industry in Korea
is more widely dispersed than medium- or large-scale industry. However,
because Korea is relatively densely populated, with large urban centers
in the Seoul and Busan areas, about 30% of small- and medium-szie
establishments were located in these urban areas in 1967. By 1972 this
ratio had dropped to 27%, largely because increasing numbers of small
and medium industries were springing up in other urban areas such as
Daegu in the central region.
Regional Distribution of Industry, 1967 and 1972
(Percent)
Number of        Number of
Establishments      Employees           Value Added
1967     1972      1 967     1972      1967      1972
Seoul and Busan      41.0      42.3      58.4     63.2       56.3      6o.4
SMI              31.3      27.4      30.0     29.4       44.9      40.6
Large-scale      68.7      72.6      70.0     70.6       55.1      59.4
Other Regions         59.0     57.7      41.6    36.8        43.7      39.6
SMI              68.7     72.6       70.0     70.6      55.1       59.4
Large-scale      31.3     27.4       30.0     29.4       44.9      40.6
Furthermore, the small and medium industries in the two major metropolitan
areas tend to be larger, more modern and more efficient than their counter-
parts in the other regions. The pattern of geographical dispersion of small
and medium industries remained virtually unchanged in the 1967-72 period.
During this period there were no significant measures taken by the Central
Government to encourage the development of new SMI or the relocation of
existing ones outside the large urban centers.  Besides, the rapid growth
of medium and large industries in Seoul and Busan area presented increasing
opportunities for sub-contracting and other ancillary services for smaller
enterprises. The regional distribution of industry by size of establismiient
is as shown in the foregoing table.
14.       Saemaul Industries.  In 1973, the Government introduced a scheme
to encourage the development of SMI factories in rural areas.   This scheme
was undertaken as an integral part of the "Saemaul" or New Connunity move-
ment which was launched in 1970 as a nationwide comprehensive self-help
program to improve the standard of livi.ng in the rural areas.  Objectives
include provision of off-farm employment opportunities for rural households,
and the utilization of seasonal idle rural labor.  Saemaul industries are
also expected to make a sizeable contribution to exports. Emphasis is
placed on highly labor-intensive industries using relatively unskilled workers.
At the end of 1974 about 370 Saemaul plants had been set up with a total
investment of about W33 billion and employing about 80,000 workers. Most
of the jobs provided have been for female labor. The factories produce a



ANNEX 1
Page 9
range of industrial goods with a heavy concentration on textiles, apparel,
footwear, toys and handicrafts. The Government supports the program
by providing 8-year loans for fixed assets and 3-year loans for working
capital at a subsidized rate of 8%. Saemaul enterprises are also exempt
from local property tax until 1976 and are eligible for a 50% deduction
for four years thereafter. Land and basic infrastructure facilities
are also being provided.
Institutional Framework
15.       There are three main financial institutions involved in assisting
SMI in Korea. The three institutions are: (i) the 'mall Industry Bureau
in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, (ii) the Medium Industry Bank,
and (iii) the National Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives. The
Citizens National Bank, the commercial banks and other Government agencies
also play a role in assisting SMI but to a lesser extent than the three
institutions mentioned above.
16.       Small Industry Bureau (SIB) was originally established as a
division in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in 1960. At the same
time a Council on Small Industry composed of high-ranking Government
officials was set up as an advisory body. The SIB is responsible for
formulating and implementing Government policies and measures to promote
and assist the development of SMI. It also gathers and analyzes information
on SMI. Due to its small number of staff, the SIB relies heavily on the
cooperation and assistance of the MIB, the NFMIC, and the provincial and
municipal governments to carry out its functions.
17.       The Medium Industry Bank (MIB) is the most important institution
serving the SNI sector. Its history, organization and functions are
described and evaluated elsewhere in this report.
18.       National Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives (NFMIC) was
established in 1962 under the Small and Medium Industry Cooperatives Act
as the apex institution for SMI cooperatives. At the end of 1974 the
NFMIC consisted of 53 national cooperatives, and 105 provincial cooperatives.
Some of the provincial cooperatives have joined together to form 15 federations.
Altogether 9,045 firms or about 40% of all SMI establishments were members
of small industry cooperatives. The cooperatives perform a large number
of important functions for their members. These include the coordination
of business activities, maintenance of quality standards, assistance in
arranging credit, provision of managerial and technical guidance, the
collection and dissemination of economic and business information, arrange-
ment of joint purchasing of raw materials and collective contracts for
bulk orders and other marketing assistance, and sponsorship of industrial
estates. The NEMIC assists and supervises the activities of member
cooperatives. It also acts as the channel for Government subsidies granted
to cooperatives, conducts research on SMI problems, and provides some
technical extension services.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
19.       The Government provides assistance to cooperatives in the form
of subsidized loans, exemption from corporate income and business taxes,
and grants to underwrite administrative and other costs. The Government
also exercises strict supervision of cooperatives to ensure that they
operate on a sound and responsible basis.
20.       Government Policy for SMI. Government efforts to assist SMI
were started in the early 1950's. The institutional framework for
formulating and implementing policies for SMI was set up in the early
1960's with the establishment of the Small Industry Division in the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the MIB. At first Government
policy for SMI was largely confined, nairly through MIB, to financial
assistance; however, as the Government became increasingly aware of
the quantitative importance of the SMI sector, and of its potential role
in generating employment, promoting entrepreneurship, exporting and
complementing large-scale industry, it has in the last few years intensified
its efforts to encourage the development of SMI by introducing specific
policy measures and incentives.
21.       In addition to the provision of financial assistance and extension
services through the MIB and the assistance provided to medium industry
cooperatives, the Government has SMI programs for encouraging export-orien-
tation, promoting structural modernization, fostering small industries in
rural areas, and developing industrial estates and export zones. The
financial assistance program is strengthened by the Credit Guarantee Scheme
administered by the NIB and by the statutory requirement that commercial
banks make at least 30% of their loans to small and medium enterprises.
Promotion of structural modernization is achieved through special depre-
ciation allowances for investments to replace obsolete equipment, provision
of managerial and technical assistance, and promotion of mergers and product
specialization. Special discounting facilities are also provided to
encourage subcontracting in selected industries.
22.       Industrial Estates have been an important part of the Government's
programs to promote industrialization since the early 1960's. The Industrial
Estate Administration in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible
for formulating industrial estates policies and programs. Five kinds of
industrial estate have been established. Key industrial estates are the
most elaborate, containing port, railroad, power and water facilities, and
are designed primarily for large-scale enterprises in the heavy and chemical
industry sectors. Free export zones are available for export-oriented firms
with a high level of foreign investment. Industrial export estates, of which
five have been established, are aimed both at promoting export-oriented
medium industry and at attracting foreign capital and entrepreneurs. Factory
sites are sold on a five-year installment basis and special loans are
available to finance equipment and working capital. The construction and
management of these industrial estates are undertaken by the Korea Industrial
Estates Corporation with the assistance of loans and subsidies from the
Government.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
23.       More important for SMI are the local industrial estates (LIE)
which are located near urban centers in the provinces and are an integral
part of the Government's regional development program. Local governments
assisted by central government subsidies are responsible for the construc-
tion and management of LIE's, of which 12 have been set up containing about
525 occupant firms. Tax concessions and special financing facilities are
made available to occupant firms; factory space can either be leased or
purchased on an installment basis. The fifth type of industrial estate
also caters to S[IV. Single-trade estates enable S14[ enterprises in similar
product lines to group together to take advantage of economies of scale
and common facilities for some aspects of their operations. Five estates
of this kind have been set up; two for machinery, one for synthetic resins,
one for non-ferrous metals and one for electronics. These estates are
organized under the cooperative program described in paragraph 18.
24.       Financing of SMI. Apart from the  IB there are three other major
sources of finance for SMI: the five nationwide city banks, the ten local
banks and the Citizens National Bank (CNB). The following table shows
the volume of lending by source of finance.
Loans to SNI by Source of Finance
(Outstanding at year-end)
1972                 1973               1974
W million      ,    W million      %    W million    _%
City Banks          197,441    56.8   263,254       52.8   318,117    53.8
Local Banks          26,802      7.7     44,605      9.0     55,410      9.3
MIB                  83,301    23.9   108,151       21.7    118,762    20.1
CNB                  33,057     9.5    61,796       12.4     77,454    13.1
Other                 7,316      2.1     20,319      4.1     21,762      3.7
Total     347,917   100.0   498,125    100.0   591,505   100.0
Source: Bank of Korea
During the last three years loans to S1MI have on average accounted for about
35% of total bank loans to industry. About 91% of the loans outstanding
in 1972 and 1973 were short-term. MIB accounted for 76% of the W44,754
million in fixed assets loans outstanding at the end of 1973. This means
that less than 3% of the loans outstanding of the commercial banks and the
CNB were for financing fixed assets. The situation may be exaggerated in
the statistics by the fact that many SIT firms use short-term loans to
finance fixed assets, relying on being able to roll these loans over as
they mature. Nevertheless lack of long-term finance has been one of the
major constraint to the growth and modernization of SICT.



ANN a 1
Page 1 2
25.       Commercial Banks.  In terms of total loans outstanding, the
commercial banks are the most important source of financing for SMI.
Comimercial banlcs are statutorily required to set aside at least 30% of
their loans for SMI. The five nationwide city banks, in which the Govern-
ment is the major shareholder, maintain separate departments to handle
StI financing. The ten local banks have a larger proportion of their loan
portfolio in SMI accounts (44% of loans outstanding at the end of 1973),
of comrrercial bank financing for SalI is in the form of short-term working
capital loans. Furtherrmore collateral requirements, preferably real
estate, are imposed notwithstanding the existence of the Credit Guarantee
Scheme, thus closing off many of the less prosperous SMII from this source
of financing.
26.       The Citizens National Bank (CNB) was established in 1963 with
majority Government ownership to provide banking services to households
and small enterprises mainly in the form of petty loans. It operates
-with a staff of 4,400 in 140 branches and offices. At the end of 1973
it had total assets of W185 billion and loans outstanding of W120 billion.
Its financial resources are mainly derived from deposits and from borrowings
from the Government and the Bank of Korea. It has the authority to issue
national savings debentures, but has not yet done so. CNiB's loans to
industry are limited to firms employing between 5-49 workers with a maximum
loan size of W10 million. Personal loans have a limit of W5 million.
Tihere is no minimum loan size. About 50% of the loans outstanding are for
SII units and the remaining 50% are personal loans. CNB normally lends
at 15.5% for a maximum term of five years; however loans from special
Government funds for cottage industries are made at 5.5%. No project
appraisals are undertaken and most loans are given on the basis of collateral.
CNB is presently not authorized under its charter to handle foreign exchange,
but it has asked the Government for a revision of the charter and this is.
expected to be made shortly.
27.       Fixed Investrnent in S4I.  The following table shows the level of
investment in fixed assets in the manufacturing sector by size of firm.
Figures for 1973.are not available. However, a surveyj by MIB's Research
Department estimated gross fixed investment by SIla in 1973 to be about W81
billion. Of this about 57% was used to finance machinery and equipment,
26% construction and 17% land. Most of the investment (56%) was for new
1970                 1971                  1972
(W million)   _      (W million)    %    (W million)   sv
Small and M4edium   26,372.4   23.4   31,773.8      17.6    55,261.5   21.7
Large               86,253.4   76.6  148,790.8       82.4   199,979.2   78.3
Total     112,625.8  100.0  180,564.6    100.0   255,240.7  100.0
1/ Including land.
Source:  Report on iIining and ltanufacturing Survey, EPB.



AN1iEX 1
Page 13
plant or expansion of existing capacity; 21% was for replacement of worn-
out machinery and equipment.  Food and beverages, textiles and apparel,
and metal products and machinery accounted for 64% of SMI investment in
1973. Excluding land, two-thirds of SIMI fixed investment Was financed
by  internal funds, 31% by bank and institutional loans and 3% by private
loans.
28.       During the Second Plan period (1967-1971) the Government placed
the major emphasis of its industrial strategy on the development of large-
scale export-oriented industries while the SI-I sector was relatively
neglected and investment in S14I stagnated. The Third Plan placed more
emphasis on the S1MI sector as it was recognized not only for its employment-
generation and income distribution benefits, but also for its strong export
perforrmance. In 1973 SMI accounted for about 26% of total manufacturing
investment compared with 22% in 1972 and 18% in 1971. However, SMI
continued to face problems in obtaining financing and were heavily dependent
on internal funds (66% compared with 23% for large-scale industries).
29.       Future Prospects for S14I.  3MI in Korea have encountered all the
constraints usually associated with this sector, principally the lack of
long-term finance and problems in procurement and marketing. Despite of
this they have done rernarkabley well in maintaining a share of 28% of
manufacturing value added for 1972. The Government is now providing S3IC
with a fairly comprehensive set of incentives and financial, technical
and managerial assistance. Assistance in procurement and marketing has
largely been left to the medium industry cooperatives which vary considerably
in the quality of service provided to their members. Some more Government
support in this respect may be required. Because the Government's
assistance program for SMI has made no distinction between small- and medium-
sized firms, institutions implementing the program have tended to favor
medium-scale firms at the expense of smaller enterprises which are less
sophisticated and more difficult to deal with. Prograrms specifically aimed
at small firms may be needed to correct this bias.
30.       Overall, in view of the Government's expressed reeognition of
the importance of SMI as an integral part of its industrial strategy,
the prospects for the future growth and development of SMI are good. If
SMI is to maintain its share of manufacturing value added of about 28-30%,
its share of manufacturing investment would be about 26% based on past
capital/output relationships. The performance of the Korean economy in
1975 is expected to be sluggish with virtually no increase in real fixed
investment.  On this basis,investment in 3MI in 1975 is estimated to amount
to about W136 billion in current prices. Assuming that the economy will
return to its long-term growth path of 9% in 1976 and beyond with a
manufacturing sector growth rate of 17%, fixed investment in the SII sector
is projected to rise to W184 billion in 1976 and W250 billion in 1977,
equivalent to an annual increase in real terms of about 15%. It is hoped
that in line with Government policy more credit will be made available
to S3I1 and that the proportion of 3MI fixed investment financed by long-term
will gradually increase.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
D. The Financial Sector
31.       Institutional Set-tUp.  The financial sector in Korea consists of
the Bank of Korea, Deposit Money Banks and non-monetary financial institu-
tions. The Bank of Korea performs regular central banking functions,
including the supervision of commercial banks. Deposit Money Banks are
either commerqial banks or specialized banks. Commercial banks are those
receiving their funds mainly through deposits from the public. They can
make all kinds of loans; however, they have traditionally concentrated on
short-term lending. Recently they have increased their long-term lending
business, and roll-over of short-term loans is also common. All nationwide
commercial banks are subject to control and supervision by the Bank of Korea.
Specialized Banks in contrast are directly controlled by the Ministry of
Finance. They were all established under a Special Banking Act and are
subject to only a few specific Articles of the Bank of Korea Act and General
Banking Act. Specialized Banks, as their name implies, were founded for
particular purposes or sectors (such as small-scale industry financing,
agricultural financing) and their major source of funds are loans, mostly
from the Government.
32.       There are five nationwide commercial banks, ten banks with localized
operations, eight branches of foreign banks and the Korea Trust Bank, which
have all together 511 branches/offices around the country (all these fall
under the term of commercial banks). Specialized Banks include the Korea
Development Bank, 1/ which received its first IBRD Loan of $60 million in
February 1975, the Korea Exchange Bank, which in 1967 was established mainly
to relieve the Bank of Korea of commercial foreign exchange business, the
Medium Industry Bank, the Citizens National Bank, (see paragraph 26), the
Korea Housing Bank, the National Agricultural Cooperative Fund (NACF) and
the Fisheries Cooperative.
33.       Besides the above-mentioned banking institutions (Monetary System)
there are several non-monetary financial institutions, namely trust accounts
of commercial banks, six life insurance companies and the postal savings
system. Other non-banking financial institutions performing specialized
functions are the Korea Development Finance Company, 2/ the Korea Investment
Corporation (KIC), primarily a broker for the offering and distribution of
corporate securities, the Korea Investment and Finance Corporation (KIFC)
which provides short-term finance to the private industrial sector, nine
others recently established short-term finance corporations and the Korea
Capital Corporation, all of which deal in short-term money market instruments.
In addition, there were 278 mutual savings and finance companies at the end
of June 1974 and some 1,300 authorized credit unions.
34.       As of October 31, 1974, total loans outstanding to industry by
all banking institutions in Korea amounted to almost W1,500 billion ($3.1
billion equivalent), three-fourths of which was for operating funds, mainly
supplied by commercial banks.  The largest supplier of equipment fund loans
1/ For a detailed discussion of KDB, please refer to the report entitled
'Appraisal of Korea Development Bank' No. 592-KO, dated February 26, 1975.
2/ For a detailed discussion of KDFC, please refer to the report entitled
'Appraisal of the Korea Development Finance Corporation', No. 739-KO,
dated June 25, 1975.



ALNNEX 1
Page 15
was KDB which, as of October 31, 1974, had outstanding portfolio of W95
billion (about $200 million) or about 40% of total outstanding medium- and
long-term credit by banking institutions to industry as of that date.
35.       Capital Market.  The Korea Stock Market which was moribund for
many years showed signs of life in 1972.  Before then the yields on stocks
were unattractive as both commercial banks and the 'curb' market paid high
interest rates. The market was also thin because closely held companies
were reluctant to go public. With the economic boom that got under way
from about mid-1972 and with additional Government measures, the public
showed growing interest in the stock market. The 'curb' market was severely
checked as a result of August 3, 1972 measures and with decreasing interest
rates at commercial banks, yields on stocks became attractive. In addition,
the overall investment climate became very favorable after August 1972 and
there was a campaign for more stock listings and for companies to go public.
The result was a great increase in stock exchange activity in the second
half of 1972 and in 1973, as the following table shows (figures are as of
the end of each period):
Stock Exchange Activity
No. of      No. of        No. of       Capital of       Market Value
Listed   Shareholders  Listed Stock  Listed Stock  of Listed Stock
Companies    (in '000)   (in million)  (W billion)    (W billion)
1970          48           76.3          159.0          134.3            97.9
1971          50           81.9          170.2          141.4           108.7
1972          66          103.3          209.8          174.3           245.9
1973         104          234.9          305.1          251.6           426.2
1974 (May)   112          187.9          383.7          312.9           465.3
36.       The capital market continued to grow and strengthen during the
first half of 1974 as a result of favorable Government policies. However,
stock prices have dropped in recent months after record highs in 1973, fol-
lowing the economic slow-dawn and unfavorable international developments.
The number of shareholders fell considerably, mainly because of withdrawal
of small investors. Over the years the ownership structure has broadened,
though at December 31, 1972, two thirds of all shareholders still held less
than 100 shares each, accounting for only 1% of all shares outstanding, while
less than 1% of all shareholders owned about 70%. The importance of the
Government as a shareholder of industrial companies also decreased. While
the Government (including public bodies) held about 39% of all listed stocks
in 1970, its holding declined to 20% of the total by the end of 1973. Also,
the proportion held by banking institutions decreased from 15% to 8%.
Interest Rates, Inflation
37.       Interest rates in Korea are determined by the Government through
the Monetary Board and apply to all banking institutions. Specialized
financial instituions such as KDFC or the short-term finance companies are
not legally bound; however, in practice they, too, have to follow government



A1NEX 1
Page 16
policies. At present, deposit rates range between 1% p.a. (for demand
deposits), and 15% p.a. (time deposits).  Although not directly comparable,
it may be mentioned that public debentures yield about 21% p.a. and the
average dividend yield on common stock was 13.6% as of June 30, 1974.
General lending rates for loans stand at 15.5% irrespective of duration.l/
Preferential rates are granted for various sectors or types of loans such
as loans for exports (9%), equipment loans for machine industry production
(10%), loans for equipment to export industries (12A) and loans made from
proceeds of the National Investment Fund (at 12%). Rates in the 'curb'
market, which has reportedly become alive again, could be as high as 35%
p.a. Rates on foreign exchange loans made by KDB, MIB and KDFC are usually
at 10-11% with the exchange risk borne by the borrower.
38.       The development of Korea's interest rate structure has, since
about 1968, seen a continuous reduction in both deposit and lending rates.
In prescribing preferential rates for various industrial sectors, the
Government's financial aims were to strengthen the competitive position of
Korea's export industries that figure heavily in its long range development
plans.  The lowering of the rates coincided, in general, with the Govern-
ment's gradual success in bringing inflation down until late 1973 when the
inflation rate jumped up again.?/ With the emergence of the oil crisis and
the general world-wide inflation, Korea's price structure was particularly
hard-hit because of its high foreign trade dependence. Between November
1973 and April 1974 wholesale prices shot up by 36%. Since then domestic
inflation has slowed somewhat reflecting seasonal factors, slower increase
in prices for imported goods and the dampening effect of demand contraction
and rising inventories. For the whole of 1974, wholesale prices rose by
44.6%. In view of the present difficulties facing the economy and the
governmernt's expectation to succeed in bringing inflation under control, the
Government has not changed the interest rate structure significantly. How-
ever, on December 9, 1974, preferential rates for loans from the NIF and
the Industrial Rationalization Fund were increased from 9% and 8% respec-
tively to 12% for both, and the rates on time deposits for over three months
(12%) and over six months (13.2%) were temporarily 3/ raised to 15%. A
complete list of interest rates charged by the Bank of Korea, KDB, MIB, KDFC
and the commercial banks as of December 31, 1974 is given in Table 1 of
this Annex.
1/  The lowering of medium-term rates to the level of short-term loans in
1973 was to encourage equipment investment.
2/  Inflation rates between May 1972 and November 1973, when the impact of
the oil crisis could, first be felt, grew at only 7.1%-o p.a.
3/  Applicable to deposits received from December 9, 1974 to June 30, 1975.
On July 1, 1975, differential rates were set at 12.6% for time deposits
over three months, 13.8% for deposits over six months and 15% for deposits
over twelve months.
EkP Projects Department
May 30, 1975



ANNEX 1
Tsble 1
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Interest Rate Structure in Korea as of December 31, 1974
(Percent per annum)
Interest Rate
Commercial. Banks
Loan rates:
General loans (1 year)                            15.5%
Loans for exports                                  9.0%
Commercial paper discount:
Rediscountable                                 13.5%
Not rediscountable                             15.5%
Term loans:
Up to 1 year                                   15.5%,
1 - 3 years                                    15.5%
3 - 5 years                                    15.5%
Machinery industry promotion loans:
Equipment loans                                12.0%
Operating loans                                12.0%
Overdrafts                                        17.5%
Call loans                                        15.0%
Overdue loans                                     25.0%
Deposit rates:
Demand deposit                                     1.0 - 5.4 %
Time deposits:
3 months                                      12.6%
6 months                                      13.8%
12 months                                      15.0%
24 months                                      15.0%
Installment savings                            13.2%
Bank of Korea
Loan rates:
Commercial bill loans                             13.0%
Loans for exports                                  3.5%
Loans for agriculture & fishery projects           6.0%
Loans for other bills:
Prime enterprises                              12.0%
Others
Currency stabilization bonds                      13.0%
Discounts:
Prime bills rediscount                           9.0%
General bills rediscount                        11.0%



ANNEX 1
Table 1, Page 2
Korea Development Bank                                    Intereit Rate
Internal funds:
Loans to general industry:
Equipment loans:
Less than 5 years                              15.5%
5 to 10 years                                  i5.5%
More than 10 years                             15.5%-
Operating loans:
Less than 1 year                               15.5%
1 to 3 years                                   15.5%
3 to 5 years                                   15.5%
Loans to key industries:
Equipment loans                                    12.0%
Operating loans                                    15.5%
Government funds:
Equipment loans                                    10.0%
Operating loans                                    15. %
Revolving foreign exchange funds: 1/
Loans to general industry:
Equipment loans                                 15.0%
Operating loans                                 15.0%
Loans to Ikey industries:
Equipment loans                                 10.0%
Operating loans                                 14.0%
Medium Industry Bank
Internal funds:
Small and medium industry loans                    15.5%
Equipment loans for small and medium
industries                                        15.5%
Cooperative fund loans                             15.5%
1/ Foreign exchange risk is passed on to the sub-borrowers.



ANNEX 1
Table 1, Page 3
Medium Industry Bank (Cont'd)                           Interest Rate
Government (including NIF) funds:
Equipment fund loans                                 10.0%
Cooperative fund loans                               12.0%
Operating fund loans                                 15.5%
Loans for machine industry promotion:
Equipment loans                                      12.0%
Operating loans                                      12.0%
Loans for military supply goods production              15.5%
Loans on installment savings                            15.5%
General loans (1 year)                                  15.5%
Foreign loan funds:
Proposed IBRD loan                                 10.5%
ADB loan fund                                      10.25% (rate set in 1975)
KfW loan fund                                       9.0%  (rate set in 1973)
EXIH Bank (Japan) loan fund                         8.25% (rate set in 1971)
Korea Development Finance Corporation
Medium- and long-term domestic currency loans           15.5%
Foreign currency loans                           1o.5 - u.0%
EAP Projects Department
February 28, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 1
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY RANK
Summary of Loan Operations, 1971-1974
(Won in million)
1971                  1972                    1973                  1974
No.        Amount      No.         Amount     No.        Amount      No.        Amount
I.  Domestic Currency Loans
Commitments 1/
Equipment loans                                   - 2/      4,024       - 2/        4,380        623     10,803        461       10,015
Working capital loans                            _ 2/    333,638        - 2/      367.082   153,800    461,400   198.741        610.259
Total commitments                           _ 2/    337,662        - 2/     371,462   154.423    472,203   199,202        620.274
Disbursements
Equipment loans                                   -         4,024       -           4,380       -        10,803        -          9,310
Working capital loans                             -        333,638       -        367,082       -       461,400         -       609,209
Total disbursements                          -       337.662                               -       472203         -        618,519
Repayments
Equipment loans                                   -          3,161      -           3,939       -         3,996        -          4,032
Working capital loans                             -        323,397      -         353.507       -       443,155         -       578,281
Total repayments                             -       326.558       -         357,446       -       447,151        -        582,313
Outstanding (at year-end)
Equipment loans                                 1,874        9,964     1,712       10,405      1,891      17,212     1,919       22,490
Working capital loans                          22,980       46,063    27,541       59,638    29.123       77,B83    34,638      108,811
Total outstanding                        24,854       56.027    29,253        70.043    31,014      95,095    36,557      131_ 301
II. Foreign Currency Loans
2/
Commitments 1/                                      2        2,835      -           1,68         678      6,189         98        9,623
Disbursements                                     -          6,045      -           3,347       -         4,782        -         11,726
Repayments                                        -          1,047      -           1,485       -         2,472        -          2,199
Net outstanding (at the end of the year)          411       12.831       427       14,693        457      17,003       529       26,530
III. Total Loans
Commitments 1/
Equipment loans                                   - 2        6,859      - 2         6,067        701     16,992        559       19,638
Working capital loans 3/                           32/      3638         _        367,082   153,800    46L,400   198,74         610.259
2/    340,497  - 2/
Total commitments                                     340,497                373149   154.501    478,392   199,300         629_897
Disbursements
Equipment loans                                   -         10,069      -           7,727        -       15,585       -          21'036
Working capital loans 3/                          -        333638                 3 0-                  461,000       -         609,209
Total disbursements                          -       343,707       -         374,809        -      476,985        -        630245
Repayments
Equipment loans                                   -          4,208      -           5,424        -        6,468        -          6,231
Working capital loans                             -        323,397       -        353,507        -      443155                  578281
Total repayments                             -       327605        -         35893                 449,623                 584512
outstanding (at year-end)
Equipment loans        31                        2,285      22,795     2,139       25,098      2,348     34,215      2,448       49,020
Working capital loans-                          22,980      46,063    27,541       59,638                 77,883    34,639      108,811
Total outstanding                          25,265     68,858    29,680       _84736    31,471    1L2,098    37.087         157,831
__ _ _   _ _ _ .5                                                                . 3
M/ NIB enters into legal commitment with Sub-borrowers immediately after approval of sub-loans.
Consequently there is no distinction between approvals and commitments.
2/ Not available.
3/ Breakdown into various kinds of working capital loans is given in Table 2 of this Annex.
ErAP Projects Department
March 6, 1975



KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Data on Workin4 Capital Loans, 1971-74
(Won in million)
During the years ended December 31,                  1971                          1972                          1973                           1974
Out-                         Out-                          Out-                            Out-
Disbursementsl/  standin 2/  Disbursementsl/   andinR/  Disbursementsl/  standing2/  Disbursements-  standing
Discounting of trade bills                    13,968          3,049          14,840        2,650           14,256          2,271          19,723         4,032
Overdrafts                                  219,425          4,816         201,697         3,429         206,707           3,755         260,144         4,964
General working capital loans               100,245         38.198         150,545        53.559         240,437          71,857        329,342         99.815
Total                                 333,638         46063          367_,082       59,638         461,400         77.883         609,209       108.81
1/  Since generally there is no time lag between MIB's commitments and disbursements, these figures also represent commitments of
respective types of working capital loans.
2/  At year-end.                                                                                                                                                    . 
EAP Projects Department
March 6, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 3
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Summary of Guarantee Operations, 1971-74
(Won in million)
1971                1972                 1973                  1974
No.      Amount      No.       Amount      No.      Amount      No.       Amount
Guarantees Issued:
Short-term                             515       5,037       760       9,572      840      15,086       485       4,875
Long-term                               615      6,425       444       6,345       509      5.085       715       6,673
Total                        1,130      11,462    1,204      15.917    1,349       20,171    1,200      11,548
Guarantees Redeemed:
Short-term                              -        4,026        -        8,963       -       14,009       -         5,797
Long-term                                        4,823        -        7,069       -        5,206       -         6,638
Total                                    8,849       -       16,032       -        19,215               12,435
Outstanding Guarantees (at Year-end)
Short-term guarantees                   135        743       188       1,352      295       2,429       263       1,507
Long-term guarantees                    192      1,870       175       1,146       184      1,025       118       1,060
Total                          327       2,61        363       2,498      479       3,454       381       2,567
(of which in foreign exchange)             (1,634)              (1,382)               (2,572               (1,517)
EAP Projects Department
March 6, 1975



ANNOEX 
KOREA                                                                         T.blo 4
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BAN0K
Analysis of Loan. Out.t.ndios on of D-cob- 31. 1974
(W.. in nillisa)
E..a ...nt Loans                                          Working CapitaL Loan               Total Loasn
F-rign Catacenny               Doaostic Cn-ooojj              Total Eg.ipnent
o.-       At.        1          s.At.  7.      No.  sAt.                     No. Ahos t.                          P.        No.       Aot. 
Ze                                             48      1.934        7.3      191        940        4.2       239      2,874    5.9       2,019      8,503       7.8      2,250    11,377       7.2
Rotating                                      401    24,596        92.7   1.72       2155         95.8    2,0        46,14    94.1    32.620   100Q38          92.2    3482    146,~54    92.0
Tota1                              329    26.530        100.0   1.919    2249          108.0    2,4        49.020  100.0    34.639   108.011   100.0    37.087   15,3    100.0
Seot-rl Di.ttib.tion
Food. bes-ge sad tobso-                    33      2,027         7.6      128     1,203         5.3       161      3,230    6.6       2.826      7.850      7.2      2.987    11,080        7.0
Teotil., wooriag appa-l sod  a-th-r  195    11.345             42.0       040      9,370       41.7    1.035    20,715   42.3         5,397    27,305    25.2        6,432    49,100    30.5
W.td and .sd prodootta                       2          3        -         22        497        2.2        24        500    1.0       1.774      5.299      4.9      1.798      5,799       3.7
Papas, ppor pt.d.et. and ptinting          53      2,224         8.4       87        281        2.6       140      2.805    5.7       1,701      5,505      5.1      1.841      9,320      5.3
Cheaiosla, pattoloa, noal,  ubb-r
and pla.ti.n                           45      1.960        7.4      157      2,100        9.3       202      4.060    0.3       3,489    12,746    11.7         5,691    16.006    10.6
Non-nt.llio niss-l pr-d.cta                13        476         1.8       63        960        4.3        76      1,436    2.9       1,493      4.136      3.8      1,569      5,572      3.5
BasInc natal                               10        404         1.6      105      1.910        8.5       115      2,314    4.7       1.351      3,622      3.3      1.466      5.936      3.8
Fabolosted natal p,r.donts noohi-y
and sqoipasot                         144      6,903       26.3      346      2,032       12.6       490      9,813   20.0       4,891    22.567    20.7         5,301    32,382    20.5
Oth...                                     13         637        2.4      137    2..403        10.7       152      3,040    6.2       2,754      3.473      3.2      2,0        6,1    -4.1
Total loans for aanfsntoOiog            310    26.059        98.3   1.085    21.856        -97.2    235        47,915   97-7    25,676    953              .1     2,07    140.5.8    89.0
mlnI,                                           2         55        02         6        10         0.5         8         175    0.4         255      1,358      1.3        263      1,533      1.
Coos,tgoation                                   3         57        0.2        1         28        0.1         4         85    0.2          83        431      0.4          07        516      0.3
Tt-np-otatio                                   14        359        1.3       16        251        1.1        30        610    1.2          227     2,654      2.4         757      3,264      2.1
S-ri_s  and Coossnon                           -         -          -         10        235        1.1        11        233    0.5       7.898    11.775    10.0        7,0       12,0910       .
Total                               529    26.53        100.0   1.919       j22.9      100.0    2.4_88    49_020  10.         3.3       100.811   100.0    3702        157.831   100.0
G-on-phi-al Distribution
lanai City                                    322    17.594        66.2      669      8,196       36.5       991    23.790   52.6    14.606    53.281    48.9    15.597    79,071    50.1
K  nog-gi Po-vln..                             51      1,268        4.8      109      1,789        8.0       160      3.057    6.2       1,807      5,221       4.B     2,027       8.278      5.2
Sooth Changohe..ng Provinne                     9        374        1.4      103      1,004        4.0       112      1,450    3.0       1,423      3,693      3.4      1,535       5,151      3.3
Nooth Changehe...g Provi.ne                     2      1,115        4.3       77        824        3.7        79      1,939    4.0         993      2,195       2.0      1,072      4,134      2.6
Kong Won P-i-nn                                 2         67        0.3       39        439        1.9        41         506    1.0      1,278      2,601       2.4      1,319      3.107      2.0
loath Jeo-oa Po-i ...                           4        206        0.0       91        970        4.3        95      1,176    2.4       2,106      5,124      4.7      2,281      8,300       4.0
Nooth J.so-ta Ps-is...                          6        173        0.7       63        703        5.1        69        876    1.8       1,017      4.739      4.4       1,006      5,615      3.6
Sooth Kyasg ...g P-oi-n                         9        464        1.7      512      1,456        6.5       121      1,920    3.9       1,239      3,700      3.4      1,360       5,620      3.6
1N0014 Oyung ...g Poo-in..                     60      3,063       11.5      423      4,663       20.7       403      7,726   15.8       3,935    12,863    11.8        4,410    20,509    13.0
Poa..o City                                    61     2,146         0.0      223      2,283       10.1       284      4,429    9.0       4.735    14,247    13.1        5,019    18.676    11.8
Choja blon-d                                    3      __60         0.5       10         83        0.4        13        143    0.3         560      1.147       1.1        573      1.290      0.
Total                               529    265350       100.0   1.919    22.490        100.0    2.448    49.020  105.0    34.69   i. 1i.    100.0    1708               M_B1    10.
Ipto 81.0 aillin-                                        -          -         37         34        0.2        37         34    0.1    11,886        8,048       7.4    11,923       8,002      5,1
81,000,00 Ito 810,000,000                      54        246        0.9      874      2,190        9.8        928     2,436    4.9    19.271    48.775    44.8    20,199    50,211    32.4
V010000,001 to  830.000,000                   166      3.379       12.2      901    15saso        70.4    1.067    19,229   39.2         3.397    48,649    44.7         4,464    67,078    43.0
W030,000,001  to 850,000,000                  123      4,745       17.9       86      3,030       13.4       209      7.775   15.9           76      2,609    12.4         205    10.384       6.6
830.000,001 to 50000,000,000                  127      8,879       33.5       21      1,386        6.2       148    10.265   20.9             7        390      0.4        155    10.655       6.8
50150.000,001 to 50150,000,000                 39      4.144       15.6      -          -         -            39     4,144    8.5            0        110      0.1         40      4,254      2.7
50150.000,001 to 50300,000,000                 18      3,740       14.1      .                    -            10     3,740    7.6            1        230      0.2         19      3,970      2.5
Ove  50300,000,000                              2     1_3927      5_._3      -          -         .2                  1.397   _2.9          -           _-      - _2                1.97       0.
Total                               529  ~4 0           100.0  10919    22,49          ,Q..0     2  4      49 020  100.0    34.639   10______  _8    1783                           OL 
Opto I 700                                     .-                               -                            -         -        -       17,922    63,032    58.7    17,922    63.832    40.4
0-s  1 y00  opta 3 yeso                        13        185        0.7      .          -         .           13         185    0.4    12,923    36,780    23.3    12,936    36,965    23.4
Ove  3 yost  opto 6 year                       40        867        3.3      152      1,035        8.2       192      2,722    5,3         .           .        .          192      2,722      1.7
OV-  6 y05-  upto 10 70-5                     398    20,083        75.7   1,767    20,635         91.0    2.165    40,718   83.1         3,794      8,199    18.0       5.959    48,917    31.0
fto 10 ysa-  apto 15 yos-                      78     5.395        20.3      -          -         -           78      5,395   11.0         -          -        -            78     5,395       3.5
Moos than 15 yor                                                                                                                                                            
To tal                             529    2650          100.0   1.919    2249          100. 0    2.448    49.020  100.0    3463          108.810   Q.q       2,87 j58 100.  -0-
Typ.. of Sah-horrowsos
Joint stank .oapsalos                         307    16.545        62.4      325      7,685       34.2       032    24.230   49.4           986     33.045   30.5       1.618    57.375    36.3
P-nt.-ohipa                                    -         -          -         12        315        1.4        12        305    0.6           62         923    0.8          74      1,238      0.8
Solo prop,iotnoship.                          185      9.985       37.6      724    14,300        63.6       909    24,285   49.5    15,841         09,192   63.6    16.750    93,477    59.2
Coop-oti-a, oto.                               -         -          -                   190        0.8         2      _190    0.5           026       5,5       5.1        128    5_741        3.7
Total                              492    26.530        100.0   1:063    2249          100.0    1.555    49.020  100.0    17.015    1008081   000.0    1857    157,831   100.0
Sin. Dlistoihation of Sah-hbrow-a hby Asse.ts I/
Upto8lOOOOOO-                                                                .                    -                    .                    85        0.900     0.7        85       100        1.2
51,000,001 tn5W0l,000,000                      7        16          .7        5         540        2.4        37        726    1.5       3,528      11,450   10.5       3,58      12,176      7.7
810.000.001 to  W20,000,000                    15        343        1.3      155      1.980        8.8        170     2,323    4.7       2,204        9,540    8.8       2,374    11,863       7.5
820.000,001 to 5030,000,000                    36        937        3.5      135      1,400        6.2        171     2,337    4.8       3.686       10,000    9.3       3,857    12,437       7.9
830 ,000.00I to W40,000,000                    27        753        2.8      143      3.300       14.7       170      4,053    0.3       3,081       15,500   14.2       3,251    19.553    12.4
8*40.000 ,801 to W50.000,000                   48      1.410        5.3      254      4,400       19.6       302      5.810   11.8       2.991      21.406   19.7       3,293    27,216    17.2
850,000.001 to W075.000,000                    57      2,295        8.7      183      3,150       14,0       240      5,445   11.1          390       9,540    8.8         630    14.985       9.5
5075.000,001 to 8100,000,000                   72      3,078       11.6       95      3,290       14.6        167      6.368   13.0         215      18.430   16.9         382    24,798    15.7
S_vsW 50000000, 000                           2303   IL281         66.1 3/   48       4,450       19.7       278    21 95B   44.8            105     10.945   10.1         383    32.903    20.9
Total                               492    26.530       100.0   1,6        2249        100.0    1.555    49.020  100.0    17.015    1000811  100.0    18.570   157.831   100.0
CIitsnt_lo Snosd
Single loa  olfonts                          466    15.873         59.8      495      3,840       12.1       961    19,713   40.2        8,958      13.246   12.2       9.919    32,959    20.9
Tw  lan  Ilg-t.                              16     4,483        16.9      341      8.184       36.4       357    12,669   25.8        3,127      15,071   13.9       3.484    27,740    17.6
moos tlass s1inota                              9      6,014       22.7      184      8,624       38.4       193    14.638   29.9        2,671      20,090   10.5       2,864    34,734    22.0
Mors than thr-g loans o1ient.                   1        158        0.6       43      1..842       8.1        44      2,000~   4.1       2 259      60 390   55.4        2 303    62,398    39.5
(.4)V       ~~~ ~~--  7190)V                           (194)1V                    (11,414)!E'                    (11,608)V
Total                               492    26,530       100.0   1.063    22.490        100.0    1.555    49.020  100.0    17.015    108.811  100.0    18.570   157.831   100.0
(l919lV/                      (2.448)2!/(4691                                              (37,087)2/
1/ At thn tine of I..a  Ppliostion to MIB.
2/  Fig-oe  is pso-th.sis deso.e tasaho  of las
3/  Dlintoihotions of fo-oigntaronY loans to olienta ha-Ing ....ts 0-0  8100  illion  is-a  follows.
Ass..s t.100                    No.       Ant.       K
0-n 50000 sdllion to
8300 aillion              193       11.810    44.6
0-0  8300  isllion  to
W50689 I  ailo            28        3,773    14.2
OVer 8600 at llion                9        194          3
Total          230         ~         6.
EAP Pr-Jonts Dep-m.tn
Marsh 10, 1975



Annex 3
Page 1
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
NIB'S TECHNICAL AND EXTENSION SERVICES
1.     Background.  Through its extension services program MIB provides
managerial and technical assistance to the small and medium sector of
industry. This program was initiated by MIB in 1962 but it was largely
restricted to managerial counselling only. Subsequently, in 1967 when
MIB decided to expand the scope of the program, technical and financial
assistance was sought and obtained from UNDP and ILO. UNDP provided a
foreign currency grant for meeting the cost of expatriate experts posted
to MIB, to pay for the services of sub-contractors, and to train NIB's
staff abroad. ILO was appointed the Executing Agency under UNDP's program.
The first five-year phase of the joint program covered the period from
1967 to 1972. At the request of MIB and the Government of Korea, the
program was extended for another three years starting August 1972.
The technical assistance being given by UNDP/ILO to NIB covers all forms
of NIB's extension services viz; (i) in-plant consultancy, (ii) corres-
pondence service, (iii) professional seminars, (iv) preparation of
feasibility studies and (v) guidance publications.
2.     In-plant Consultancy.  In-plant consultancy is the main element
of MIB's technical assistance to small and medium enterprises to improve
their output and production efficiency. In-plant consultancy involves on-
the-job diagnosis by MIB's staff and recommendation of remedial measures.
It covers both managerial and technical consultancy. Specific matters
covered under managerial consultancy are general management, personnel
management and organization, financial management, cost accounting,
marketing management, production planning and control. Technical consultancy
involves technical guidance on specific lines of production such as foundries,
heat treatment of metals, surface finishing, textile dyeing and furnishing,
electricals, ceramics, etc. Applications for in-plant consultancy services
are periodically invited by MIB through newspaper advertisements and are
received both at the MIB branches and the head office. All small and medium
enterprises are eligible irrespective of whether they are NIB's borrowers or
not. After preliminary screening, an exploratory team consisting of two to
three specialists visits each applicantst factory to assess the nature of
assistance needed. Simple problems are solved on-the-spot. For more com-
plicated problems, a team of experts including expatriates as appropriate
from the two sub-contractors 1/ is formed and sent to the factory to study
1/ At present under the UNDP/ILO project four expatriate advisers are
available to MIB on a full-time basis. In addition, under two separate
sub-contracts signed with two Japanese consulting firms, experts in
specific fields have been made available to NIB. So far about ho
experts have helped MIB carry out its in-plant consulting services.



Annez 3
Page 2
the problem in decth and advise the enterprise's management. A written
report usually follows the teamts visit. Up to 1972, in-plant consultancy
was provided free if cost.  I! 1973, in order to discourage trivial appli-
cations, nominal fees (W7,o00 for first-time application and W3,000 a year
for subsequent ones) were introduced. They were raised in 1974 (to
w20,000 and W10,000 respectively). MIB handles directly those cases for
which it believes it has the required expertise and refers other cases to
other consulting institutions in the country such as Korea Institute of
Science and Technology, National Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives
and National Industrial Standard Research Institute.
3.     Details of in-plant consulting services rendered by NIB in the
past are given in Table 1. Since it received UNDP/ILO's assistance in
1967 up to December 31, 1974, MIB had rendered in-plant consultancy services
to 1,658 enterprises, of which about 69% involved technical problems, 18%
managerial problems and 13% a combination of technical and managerial prob-
lems. The largest number of cases (26%) handled by NIB related to the metal
processing industry, followed by textiles (23%), machinery tools (18%)
and ceramics (18%). Although MIB's in-plant consultancy services are not
restricted to its borrowers, these accounted for about 80% of cases handled
by MIB to date. During the first five-year phase of the joint UNDP/ILO
project (1967-72) one of the basic objectives was to introduce the in-plant
consultancy services to small and medium industries in Korea and to establish
its usefulness. Relatively smaller business units have been a major
recipient of MIB's in-plant consultancy services. About 55% of the enter-
prises which obtained these services had assets below W50 million and 56%
of them had less than 100 workers. MIB endeavors to disseminate its
consultancy services to all areas of the country. As a result the geo-
graphical distribution of actual in-plant consultancy jobs done up to
Decembexr 31, 1974 is much more evenly distributed than MIB's financial
portfolio; Seoul accounts for about 30% of these services, as compared with
its share of 50% of NIB's financing.
4.     A recent survey undertaken by MIB shows that an overwhelming majority
(91%) of enterprises which consulted MIB accepted NIB's recommendations and
either had already implemented these or are in the process of doing it.
Evaluated in cash terms, benefits to industries which implemented MIB's
recommendations were estimated to have amounted to W576 million mainly in
the form of better productivity through application of improved techniques
(23%), better maintenance (19%), recuced rate of defective production (14%),
raw material standardization (12%) and improved labor productivity (10%).
5.     The second phase of the UNEP/ILO joint assistance project would
expire in August 1975. NIB does not envisage requesting its extension.
In the past three years, dependence on expatriate experts has gradually
declined; in 1972, 70% of the consultancy work was done by the expatriate
consultants; the proportion for 1974 was 35%. By August 1975 the staff of
MIB's Extension Services Department is expected to have acquired sufficient
expertise and experience to undertake independently the totality of NIB's
consultancy work.



Annex 3
Page 3
6.     Correspondence Service.  As a supplement to its in-plant consultancy
services, NIB started a correspondence service in 1968. For relatively minor
problems, small and medium industries are encouraged to write to NIB's
Extension Services Department giving details of their problems. Solutions
to the problems are conveyed by mail by the staff of the Extension Services
Department. Replies are sent in writing whenever feasible, but wherever the
problem is complex or its nature is not known, NIB's staff pays a visit to
the applicant enterprise to seek more detailed information. Complicated cases
are recommended for in-plant consultancy. From 1968 through 1974, MIB
handled 1,217 industrial problems through correspondence - 37% relating to
managerial aspects and 63% to various technical aspects. (see Table 2).
No fee is charged for correspondence service.
7.     Seminars.  NIB regularly organizes professional seminars to familiarize
the management of small and medium industrial enterprises with modern concepts
of management and technology.  So far seminars have been organized for junior
as well as senior levels of management on subjects such as financial manage-
ment, general management, production management, technical and production
problems, etc. These seminars are conducted by the staff of the Extension
Services Department and foreign experts.  Between 1967 and 1974, 281 seminars
(of which 131 in the latest three years) were conducted which were attended
by over 12,000 participants. A majority of the seminars dealt with tech-
nical and production problems (63%) and financial management (14%).  Details
are given in Table 3. Most (88%) of these seminars took place outside the
Seoul metropolitan area.
8.      Feasibility Studies.  In 1972 MIB decided to assist small and medium
entrepreneurs in the preparation of feasibility studies. The objective
was to promote viable and well articulated industrial projects for eventual
NIB financing,introduce to local entrepreneurs the concepts and practices of
project preparation and stress the importance of proper feasibility studies.
However, so far, manpower was largely utilized for improving MIB's own project
evaluation techniques and procedures. MIB expects to intensify its future
efforts to undertake feasibility studies.
9.     Guidance Publications.  MIB publishes quarterly a professional
magazine, "Management and Technical News". Its 40,000 copies are widely
distributeu, free of cost, among small and medium business enterprises.
In addition a number of pamphlets and small industry profiles have been
published. Some of the professional publications so far released are:
Business Guidance Series, Outline of Book-Keeping System for Small Industries,
How to Provide Consultancy Services ana Manual of Taxation Laws.
10.    Research and Publications.  MIB's Research Department carries out
annually for the Ministry of Commerce and Industry a census of small and
medium industries to collect information and statistical data on production,
employment, investments, inventories, etc. This survey covers a sample



Annex 3
Page 4
of about 2,300 units. In addition, this Department also prepares for
the Government an "Annual Report on Small and Medium Business" which reviews
relevant government policies and makes suggestions for their amendments/
improvements and a monthly report on developments in light industries
abroad. On its own, NIB's Research Department issues two regular publi-
cations, ' Monthly Economic Review' (in Korean language) and 'Quarterly
Review' (in English) covering current economic affairs, news and statistics.
The Research Department fas also published a number of studies on a broad
spectrum of topics concerning the small and medium industry sector - at
home and abroad. A list of MIB's publications is given in Table 4.
EAP Project Department
August 11, 1975



ANNEX 3
KOREA                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 1
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Data on In-Plant Consultancy Services, 1967-74
Cumulative
1970                1971             1972               1973              1974          1967-1974
No.       7,        No.      %        No.      %        No.       %       No.       %        No.      %
Fields of Consultancy
Managerial                                   64    18.1        53       21.8       54    21.4       30       14.8      34      22.2      296    17.9
Technical                                  272    76.8        169       69.5      153    60.7    158         78.2    119      77.8   1,144    68.8
Managerial and Technical                     18     5.1         21       8.7       45    17.9       14        7.0      -        -        218    13.3
Total                  354   100.0        243      100.0      252   100.0    202       100.0    153    100.0   1,658   100.0
Lines of Industry
Machinery making                            79   22.3          51       21.0       46    18.3       26       12;9      25      16.3      296    17.8
Metal processing                            66   18.6          60       24.7       55    21.8       70       34.7      43      28.2      434    26.2
Textiles                                    83   23.4          61       25.1       54    21.4       45       22.3      28      18.3      381    23.0
Ceramics                                    74   20.9          37       15.2       37    14.7       34       16.8      25      16.3     296    17.8
Electricals                                 29    8.2          10        4.1       23      9.1      10        4.9       8       5.2       91     5.5
Others                                      23    6.6          24        9.9       37    14.7       17        8.4      24      15.7      160     9.7
Total                  354  100.0         243      100.0      252   100.0    202       100.0    153    100.0   1.658   100.0
Assets Size of Erterprises____
(Won in million)
Up to 10                                    21    5.9           3       1.2        17      6.7       8        4.0       7       4.6       93      5.6
Over  10 up to 30                          113   31.9          59      24.3        34    13.5       28       13.8      14       9.2     435    26.2
Over 30 up to 50                            98   27.7          78      32.1        48    19.1       33       16.3      34     22.2       392    23.7
Over 50 up to 100                           74   20.9          55      22.6        60    23.8       65       32.2      40      26.1      383    23.1
Over 100                                    48   13.6          48      19.8        93    36.9       68       33.7      58      37.9      355    21.4
Total                  354  100.0         243    100.0        252   100.0    202        100.0    153    100.0   1.658   100.0
Employment Level in Enterprises Assisted
Up to 50 workers                           118   33.3          55      22.6        86    34.1       31       15.3      22      14.4     446    26.9
Over 50 up to 100 workers                  123   34.8          74      30.5        69    27.4       36       17.8      39     25.5      489    29.5
Over 100 up to 200 workers                  85   24.0          96      39.5        51    20.2       65       32.2      49     32.0      470    28.3
Over 200 workers                            28    7.9          18       7.4        46    18.3       70       34.7      43      28.1     253    15.3
Total                  354  100.0         243    100.0        252   100.0    202        100.0    153    100.0   1.658   100.0
Geographical Distribution of Enterprises
Assisted
Seoul City                                 101   28.5          52      21.4        95    37.6       70      34.6      29      18.9      489    29.5
Pusan City                                  66   18.6          44      18.1        45    17.9      47       23.3      52      34.0      333    20.1
Kyung-gi Province                           14    4.0          13       5.4        13      5.2      13        6.4      11       7.2       11     4.6
North Chungcheong Province                  16    4.5          10       4.1         6      2.4      10        5.0       3      2.0       63      3.8
South Chungcheong Province                  31    8.8          20       8.2        13      5.1       5       2.5      10       6.5      110      6.6
North leon-ra Province                      18    5.1          14       5.8         9      3.6       1       0.5        1      0.7       74      4.5
South Jeon-ra Province                      20    5.6          20       8.2        13      5,1       9       4.4        6      3.9       88      5.3
North Kyungsang Province                    59   16.7          49      20.2        41    16.3       36       17.8      28     18.3      305    18.4
South Kyungsang Province                    14    4.0          16       6.6         9      3.6       6       3.0      12       7.8       75      4.5
Kang Won Province                            9    2.5           4       1.6         6      2.4      5         2.5       1      0.7       34      2.1
Cheju Island                                 6    1.7           1       0.4         2      0.8      -         -        -       -         10      0.6
Total                  354  100.0         243    100.0        252   100.0    202       100.0    153    100.0   1.658   100.0
EAP Projects Department
April 25, 1975



Annex 3
Table 2
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Data on Correspondence Services, 1968-1974
Managerial        Technical
Problems         ProbleTm             Total
No . I     %       N317      rNo.!/    %
1968                   78        33.2    157       66.8    235      100.0
1969                  142        53.0    126       47.0    268      100.0
1970                  112       40.9    162        59.1    274      100.0
1971                   61        26.4    170       73.6    231      100.0
1972                   26        20.6    100       79.4    126      100.0
1973                   31        42.5      42      57.5      73     100.0
1974                    2        20.0       8      80.0      10     100.0
Total            452       37.1    765        62.9  1,217      100.0
1/ No. of cases handled by MIB.
EAP Projects Department
August 11, 1975



KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Data on Professional Seminars, 1968-1974
Cumulative Total
1970                       1971                         1972                      1973                      1974                      1968-74
Number      Attendance   Number        Attendance    Number        Attendance   Number        Attendance   Number    Attendance    Number    Attendance
Topics
Management                        -            -             -            -             -             -             -             -            -           -            22        1,696
Accounting                      21          1,374           15         1,061            -             -             -             -            -           -            47        3,188
Technical                        5            302            1           110            2            121            -             -            -           -            14          926
Management and Technical          2           141            2           146            -             -             -             -            -           -             9          711
General                          4            422           3            730            -             -             -            -             -           -            10        1,852
In-plant technology             17            422          25            476          23             546           38           568           49          778          160        2,974
Other subjects                  ___                                       -           19           1,047           _                                        -           19        1,047
Total                 49           2661            6523                     44           1,714           38           568           49           778         281       12.394
Location  of Seminars                                                                                                                                                                %
Seoul City                       7                          5                          7                            7                          4                        34        12.1
Pusan City                       2                          7                          4                            9                         21                        48        17.1
Kyung-gi Province                6                           2                          -                           1                          1                        16         5.7
North Chungcheong Province    2                             3                          3                            3                          2                        16         5.7
South Chungcheong Province    4                             3                          4                            1                          2                        19         6.8
North Jeon-ra Province           6                          4                          4                            1                          2                        20         7.1
South Jeon-ra Province           4                          5                          7                            -                          -                        24         8.5
North Kyungsang Province         9                          9                          6                           11                         12                        57        20.3
South Kyungsang Province         4                          3                          5                            5                          5                        26         9.3
Kang Won Province                4                          3                          3                            -                          -                        15         5.3
Cheju Island                     12                                                    1                                                                                16         2.1
Total                 49                         46                         44                           38                         49                       281       100.0
EAP Projects Department
April 25, 1975



Annex 3
Table 4
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
List of Professional Publications
1.   The Census of Mining and-Manufacturing Firms (1963)
2.   The Census of Transportation Business (1965)
3.   The Census of Manufacturing Plant and Equipment (1966)
4. The Censuses of Small and Medium Enterprises (annually from 1967)
5.  Survey of Marketing Channels of Small/Medium Manufacturing Industries
(1965-67)
6.   Survey of Productivity of Small/Medium Manufacturing Industries (1965-68)
7.  Survey of Birth and Failure Rates of Small/Medium Firms (1966-68:
semi-annual)
8.  Survey of Trade Cycles of Small/Medium Industries (1967-69)
9.  Survey of Trends of Private Financing for Small/Medium Industries
(1968-70)
10. Survey of Subcontracting in Small/Medium Industries (annually from
1963 onwards)
11.  Survey of Status of Management in Small/Medium Industries (annually
from 1969 onwards)
12. Survey of Changes in Size of Small/Medium Enterprises (annually
from 1969 onwards)
13.  American Economy and Cottage Industries (1962)
lh.  Financing Small Industry in Japan (1962)
15.   Success and Failure of Small Business in the United States (1962)
16.  Problems of Development of Small Industries in India (1964)
17.  Problems of Small Industries in Italy (1964)
18.   Small Industry Development Policies in Asian Countries (1964)



Annex 3
Page 2
19.   Physical Planning of Industrial Estates (1965)
20.   Study of Small Industry Policies (1966)
21.   Financing the Small Manufacturer in Developing Countries (1967)
22.   Financing Small Industry in Latin America (1969)
23.   Small Business in the United States (1970)
24.   International Corporations (1971)
25.   Small Firms in the United Kingdom (1972)
26.   An Introduction to Small Industries in Korea (1966)
27.   Financing Small Industry in Korea (1968)
28.   Facts about MIB (1969)
29.   The Medium Industry Bank - Its Activities for Development of Small
Industry in Korea (1971)
30.   Financing the Development of Small Industries in Korea (1972)
31.   Small/Medium Export Industries in Korea (1963)
32.  Structure of and Policy for Small/Medium Industries in Korea (1964)
33.   Analysis of Korean Small/Medium Industries by Type of Industry (1966)
34.   Subcontracting Relationship in Machinery Industry in Korea (1967)
35.   Effectiveness of Measures for Conversion of Small/Medium Industries
(1967)
36.  Problems of Interest Rate in Korea (1967)
37.   Status of Technology of Metal ana Machinery Industries (1968)
38.   Analysis of Competitiveness of Small/Medium Industries in Foreign
Markets (190d)
39.   Study of the Category of Small/Medium Industry (1969)
hO.   Case Stuay of Export Problems of Small/Medium Industry (1969)
41.   Study of the Merger of Small/Medium Firms (1970)
42.  A Basic Study of Industrial Reorganization (1971 and 1972)
h3.   Periodicals: (a)  Monthly Economic Review
(b) Quarterly Review
(c) The Information on Overseas Light Industry
EAP Projects Departanent
March 10, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 1
KOREA
M4EDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Partial Economic Indicators
On Foreign Currency Loans Approved 1973-74
No. of Projects                                                      174
Total Project Cost (Won million)                                  33,611
MIB's Financing (W million)2/                                     15,399
Share of MIB's Financing (%7                                       45.8
Incremental Annual Sales (Won million)                            70,037
Incremental Annual Value Added (Won million)                      30,392
Direct Additional Employment (Number)                             22,369
Incremental Annual Gross Exports ($ million)                       79.7
Increase in Fixed Assets (Won million)                            24,306
Sales per Employee (Wonlooo)                                       3,131
Value Added per Employee (Won'OOO)                                 1,359
Investment per Employee (Won'OOO)                                  1,532
Ratio of Sales to Fixed Assets                                      2.88
Ratio of Valle Added to Fixed Assets                                1.25
Ratio of Value Added to Sales                                       0.43
Export Share of Sales (%)                                          49.7
1/ Based on projections made in project appraisal reports.
2/ Won equivalent at exchange rates prevailing at times loans were made.
EAP Projects Department
May 22, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 2
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Economic and Financial Rates of Return on a Sample of 20 MIB Financed Projects -
Share     Financial  Economic
Type of        New (N) or  Total Project Cost   NIB Financing         of MIB    Rate of    Rate of
Name of Borrower                    Products      Expansion (E) Foreign   Local    Foreign  Local        Financing  Return       Return
$'000  W million  $'000- W million  7%7              (%)        (T%
Jedong Industries Co.,Ltd.        Crushed Lime-       E           60o     1,549.0   6oo          -         16          34         52
stone
Young Il Food Industrial Co.    Bakery products    E              120        32.2   120.4        -         60          23         35
Han Young Paper Hfg. Co.,Ltd.   Printed fabrics    N              300        376.6   300        33         31          S9         29
Han Dae Industrial Co.            Embroidered
fabrics           N           412        55.4   412        24          86          24         38
Daeduk Textile Ltd.               Men's outwear       E           412        143.3   412         -          54         23         44
Sam Yung Wool Textile Co.,Ltd.  Woolen fabrics        E          400        698.5  400           -         19          25         37
Soo Wol Textile Co.,Ltd.          Polyester fabrics  N            240       159.5   240         41         58          20         35
Poong Man Paper Mfg. Co.,Ltd.   Paper                 N            36       198.0    36         40          27         32         55
Tong-A Textbook Co., Ltd.         Printing of
textbooks           E           592       213.7   592          -         53          33         47
Dae I1 Chemical Co.,Ltd.          Medicated
plaster             E           116       407.6   116          -         10          28         57
Korea Chemical Co., Ltd.          Marine paints       N           224       344.9   224          -         21          43    ~ 61
Dong Kwang Steel Industrial
Co.,Ltd.                        Steel pipes and
round steel bars   E           599        750.7   599          -         28          34         51
Dong Woo Industrial Co., Ltd.   Stainless steel
products            N           582       299.5   582          -         49          19         26
Shin n  Casting Co., Ltd.         Metal casting       E           495         95.1   495         -         68          23         38
Korea Powder Metallurgy           Powder metallurgy
products            N           265         88.4   265        17         63          31         39
Dong Kook Heavy Industry          Centrifugal
Co., Ltd.                       casting steel
pipes               N         1,099       478.1  1pl99         -         48          22         56
Tong Tl Industry Co., Ltd.        Lathe and high
speed precision
tools               N           992       650.0   992        10          43          23         36
Seu Jin Industrial Co., Ltd.    Automobile parts   3              600       400.8   600         58         50          43         65
Shin Yeong Electronics
Ind. Co., Ltd.                  Electronic parts   E            165        62.2   165          -         52          25         37
Mun Hwa Pencil Co., Ltd.          Pencils and ball-
point  pens         E            90         86.4    90         26        52          28         54
Simple Average         27.6       45
1/ Based on appraisal reports.
FAP Projects Department
June 4, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 3
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
MIB's Loans to Saemaul Industries as of December 31, t974
(Won in million)
Chemicals,
Textiles        Paper                   Petroleum,
Food, Beverage  Apparel and  Printing and  Wood and   Coal, Rubber  Metal Machinery
Location             and Tobacco    Footwear    Publishing    Furniture  and Plastics  and Ebuipment   Miscellaneous    Total
No.     Ant    No.      Amt.  No.      Amt.  No.  Amt.  No7.     Amt.  No.       Amt.   No.      Amt.  No.  Amt.
Seoul and
Pusan City          -        -      -         -     -        -    -      -    -       -       -               -
Kyung-gi Province  3        128    .24      762      1    114      1    30      4   120       6      295      9      196    48  1,645
South Chungcheong
Province            4       110      8      127       2    126    -      -      1    51       1       10       8     129    24    553
North Chungeheong
Province            1        30      5       79       3     45    -      -    -       -       2       18      5       78    16    250
Kang won Province  1         23      4      121      1      10     2    25   -        -       -       -        3       7    11    186
South Jeon-ra       6       139      4       23      -       -     2    24      2    25       -       -       6       56    20    267
Province
North Je.n-ra       1        22      3       31       1     14     1    20   -        -       1       20      6      113    13    220
Province
South Kyungsang    2         60     11      302      4    174            -      4   225       2       10      6      136    29    907
Province
North Kyungsang    -         -      28      558       8     55     1      5           -       2       88       5      68    44    774
Province
Cheju Islands       1         9      1        5              -    -      _    _       _       _2                                    14
Total    19       521     88   2,008       20    538      7    104   11   421      14      441      48     783      . 2 4.81S
SDurcet  MM
EAP Projects Department
May 22, 1975



ANNEX 5
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUS$RY BANK
Outline of Development Strategy for 1976-77
Apart from its normal financing operations and usual technical
assistance activity, MIB will endeavour in the two-year period 1976-77
to achieve the specific developmental objectives outlined below:
(1) NIB intends to gradually increase the proportion of its
financing to areas outside metropolitan Seoul and Pusan. It
is intended that this proportion would be no less than 50% over
the 1976-77 period;
(2)   NIB will intensify and maximize its assistance, both
financial and technical, to small rural industries in the
Semaul program, with a view to supporting the Government's
new Community Mbvement.
(3)   Realizing the vital importance of technical assistance
in connection with small industry, MHIB will continue to steadily
expand the scope of its extension services including in-plant
consultancy services. For this purpose, an appropriate program
(attached) for strengthening the staff of the Extension Services
Department for 1976-77 will be implemented;
(4)  MIB intends to intensify its efforts to undertake sector
studies, feasibility and market studies for selected sub-sectors
of Korean small industry. For this purpose, NIB's economic
staff will be adequately strengthened and/or outside consultants
commissioned; and
(5)   MIB will attempt to raise more long-term resources through
borrowings from sources such as the National Investment Fund.
M¢B will also explore the feasibility of mobilizing additional
long-term domestic resources through issuance of bonds.
EAP Projects Department
August 11, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 1
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUJSTRY BANK
Composition of Board of Policy
as of December 31, 1974
Name            Position                      Career Background
1.        Woo Keun Kim         Chairman              President Medium Industry Bank
Previously President of Korea-ExchanRe
Bank.
2.        Yong Man Lee         Member                Director of the Bureau of Finance
(Nominated by the Minister of
Finance)
3.        Moon Heung Lee       Member                Director of the Bureau of Small
Indastry
(Nominated by the Minister of
Commerce and Industry)
4.        Dong Ju Lee          Member                Director of the Bank of Korea
(Nominated by the Governor of
the Bank of Korea)
5.        Bang Jae Kim         Member                Chairman of the National Federation
of Small and Medium and Industry
Cooperatives
6.        Ik Sung Choi         Member                Representatives of small entre-
preneurs.
7.        Kwan Soo Lee         Member                Representatives of small entre-
preneurs.
EAP Projects Department
May 30, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 2
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Composition of Board of Directors
as of June 30, 1975
Name              Position                         Background
1.          Woo Keun Kim            President              Appointed on March 7, 1975.
Previous position: President,
Korea Exchange Bank.
2.          Yong Woon Kim           Deputy President       Previous commercial banking
background. Joined NB in 1961 .
Appointed Director in 1972 and
Deputy President in March 1975.
3.          Chong Hwan Kim          Director               Previous commercial banking
background. Joined MIB in 1961.
Appointed Director in 1972.
4t.         Jae Sup Kim             Director               Previous commercial banking
background. Joined MIB in 1961.
Appointed Director in 1972 and
Deputy President in March 1975.
5.          Heung Sik Choi          Director               Previous commercial banking
background. Joined MIB in 1961.
Appointed Director in 1974.
6.          Chu Hee Park            Director               Previous commercial banking
experience. Joined NIB in 1961.
Appointed Director in 1975.
7.          Jang Shur Park          Director               Previous commercial banking
background. Joined MIB in 1961.
Appointed Director in 1975.
EAP Projects Department
June 4, 1975



ANNEX S
Table 3
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Respective Functions of Board of Policy and Board of Directors
Board of Policy
1. Amendment of By-laws
2. Matters relating to raising of share capital including underwriting of
shares issued by MIB.
3. Approval of Annual Plan of Operation.
4. Establishment and amendment of Operating Manual.
5. Approval of MIB accounts and appropriation of profits.
6. Judgement on disqualification of membership.
7. Other important matters relating to administration and management of MIB.
Board of Directors
1. Recommendation to Board of Policy (BP) for amendments of By-laws.
2. Recommendation to BP for appraisal and amendment of Operating Manual.
3. Appraisal of organizational and occupational systems.
4. Approval, amendment and repeal of regulations.
5. All matters relating to paid-in capital, reserves, and allowances.
6. Recommendation to BP for approval and amendment of Plan of Operation.
7. Formulation of budget and supplementary budget, and expenditure of
contingency fund.
8. Settlement of accounts.
9. Issuance of small industry financing debentures.
10. Borrowing of foreign capital.
11.  Decisions on interest rates, guarantee fees, commissions, and other
rates and reduction and exemption of interest.
12. Approval of loans, discount of bills, payment guarantees, and amendment
of major conditions of approved loans.
13. Special control of loans and writing off bad debts.
14.  Subscription, underwriting and/or selling of stocks and debentures issued
by small and medium entrepreneurs.
15. Conclusion and cancellation of important contract and agreement, and
amendment thereof.
16. Acquisition, lease, administration, and disposition of movables and
immovables for business.
17. Depreciation of movables and immovables for business.
18. Businesses entrusted or trusted.
19. Appointment, removal, and change of employees for important posts.
20. Annual Reports.
21. Handling of irregular occurrences.
22. Important lawsuit and arbitration.
23. Important recommendations to Government.
24. Other matters the President deems necessary.
EAP Projects Departmnent
May 30, 1975



KOREA                          ANNEX 7
Page 1
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Policy Statement
(Adopted by Board of Policy on November 13, 1969
and amended on May 30, 1974)
I.   Economic Role
MIB shall assist in the economic development of Korea in
conformity with its purposes as stated in the Medium Industry Bank Act
and By-Laws and in accordance with the Government's plans, policies
and priorities. In order to accomplish this objective, NIB will promote
the development of privately-controlled medium and small enterprises
(as defined from time to time by the Government of the Republic of Korea)
in the country by (i) providing various types of financial assistance to
them in the form of short-term credits for working capital purposes,
medium- and long-term loans, equity participation, guarantees and under-
writings; (ii) providing technical and managerial consulting services;
and (iii) undertaking promotional activities in the identification and
development of new projects. The term "privately-controlled" enterprises
will be taken to mean enterprises which are privately operated and
managed and in which the controlling interest is held by private investors.
The mere fact that such enterprises have secured loans from government
financial institutions, or that the Government holds a minority equity
position will not exclude such enterprises from receiving financial
assistance from NIB.
II. Development Policies
In extending its assistance MIB shall give preference to enter-
prices which will effectively contribute to broadening the base of the
national economy and improving the balance of payments. Priority will
be given to:
(a) Export industries as designated by the Government;
(b) Import-substitution industries and industries producing
raw materials necessary for export and import-substitution
industries;
(c) Specialized industries or industries ancillary to large
firms and machinery industries;
(d) Industries with potential for exports or import-substitution;
(e) Industries which will develop new products; and
(f) Indigenous industries and industries which make use of labor
intensive technologies.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
III. General Policies and Procedures
(a) MIB will carry out its operations in accordance with sound
management and business principles and practices. It will
increase its operations in the field of development finance.
(b)  NIB will extend financial assistance only for projects
which appear viable from economic, technical, and financial
points of view. MIB will pay special attention to the
quality of the management of the enterprise and to the
market prospects of the project.
(c) MIB may assist applicants in the preparation of project
applications and feasibility studies.
(d) NIB will require eligible borrowers to finance a reasonable
portion of the total project cost from their own resources
to ensure that they have a reasonable stake in the projects
financed by NIB.
(e) Borrowers must not be in arrears in the repayment of either
principal or interest on any existing loan.
(f)  For the projects assisted by it, MIB will ensure availability
of all financial requirements, including working capital,
for the successful implementation of the project.
(g) MIB will appropriately supervise the use of its funds, the
progress of the project financed and the performance of
the enterprise so as to ensure that remedial action is
promptly taken when problems arise. Wherever necessary, MIB
will endeavour to provide the necessary technical services
to such enterprises.
(h)  MIB will determine the repayment periods of loans, including
grace period, in accordance with the nature and the individual
circumstances of the proiect.
IV. Financial Guidelines
(a)  MIB will finance its medium- and long-term operations from its
long-term resources and it shall endeavour to diversity its
investments in terms of the type of industries, the location
of such industries and the type of financing.
(b) MIB will not seek to control any of the enterprises in which
it has invested nor it will participate in the management
of such enterprises except for the purpose of safeguarding
its interest.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(c)  In accordance with sound banking practices, MIB will secure
its loans and guarantees with appropriate collateral from
its client; but MIB will have due regard to its developmental
functions in the Korean economy. In making investments in
equity participations and in underwriting stocks and debentures
of its clients, MIB will be guided by considerations of tech-
nical feasibility, financial viability and economic justification
of the projects and enterprises so assisted.
(d) MIB will not subscribe to stocks in excess of its unimpaired
paid-up capital, legal reserves and surplus. As a rule, MIB's
equity participation in any single enterprise shall not exceed
25% of the paid-in capital stock of an enterprise.  MIB's
equity investment shall serve mainly as a catalytic agent for
the establishment of new enterprises and MIB will endeavour
to dispose of such equity investments as soon as this becomes
feasible at a fair price.
(e) MIB's total commitments in any one single enterprise in
whatever form, i.e. loans, equity participation, guarantees
or a combination thereof, will normally not exceed 25% of
the sum of its unimpaired paid-in capital, legal reserves
and surplus.
(f)  In general, MIB's total commitments in any one single enter-
prise will not exceed 60% of the total assets of the enterprise
including MIB's own investments. Exceptions to the above may
be made in respect to MIB's financing of small and medium
industry cooperatives, local governments and non-profit seeking
corporations.
V.  Accounting
(a)  NIB will maintain accounting records adequate to reflect its
business operations and affairs in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and standards.
(b) MIB will engage a qualified and independent public accountant
to audit its books and financial statements every year.
VI. Provisions and Reserves
(a) MIB will annually make appropriate allocations to a provision
for the protection against bad debts and investments until such
provisions equals 10% of MIB's portfolio.
(b) MIB will allocate at least 25% of its annual net profits to
a reserve fund until such a reserve fund reaches a sum equal
to its paid-up capital.
EAP Projects Department
May 30, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 1
IMREA
MEDIUtM INDUSTRY BANK
Net Resource Position as of December 31, 1974
(Won in milion)
I. Domestic Currency
A. Long-term
Paid-in capital                                                                     3,060
Reserves and retained earnings
Net owners' equity                                                             4,379
Borrowings from Government                                                         15,520
Borrowings from NIF and IRF                                                        12,030
Deposits (over one year)
Total domestic currency resources                                             89,737
Deduct:  Domestic currency loans outstanding-K                                     32,372
Investmnent in fixed assets (net)                                                   4,042
Deposit with BOK under reserve requirement                                          9,827
Sub-Totall
Resources available for further disbursements                                     43,496
Deduct:  Undisbursed commitments                                                    1,228
Resources available for further commitments                                        42,268
B.  Short-term
Demand and savings deposits                                                        71,364
Borrowings from BOK
Total short-term resources                                                   81,617
Deduct:  outstanding loans 2/                                                      98,929
Deposits with BOK under reserve requiremenct
Sub-Total                                                                    ill,364
Net resource shortfall                                                            (29,747)
C. Total domestic Currency Resources
Total long-term resources                                                        89,737
Total short-term  resources                                                      81,617
Total resources                                                             171,354
Deduct:  outstanding loans                                                       131,301
Investment in    property and equipment                                 4,042
(net)
Deposit with BOK under reserve requirement                              22,262
Sub-total                                                        157,605
Resources available for further disbursements                                     13,749
Deduct:  Undisbursed loan commitments                                               ,2
Resources available for further commitment                                        12,521
II. Foreign Currency
USAID loans                                                                         3 *3404
KfW loans                                                                           4,662
OECF  loans                                                                        10,783
ADB loans                                                                          26,655
Export-Import Bank of Japan loan                                                    8,730
Total foreign currency resources                                             54,234
Deduct:  Foreign currency loans disbursed                                          35,460
Resources available for further disbursements                                      18,774
Deduct:  tndisbursed loan commitments                                               8,626
Net resources available for further commitments                                    10,148
I/  Long-term loans only.
2/  Short-term loans only.
3/  This shortfall is covered by net long-term domestic currency
resource availability.
EAP Projects Department
March 31, 1975



KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Long-Term Rorrowinas as of December 31. 1974
Dare of                                                                                  Ceiling for                          Procurements       With or without
Amnibillount US$inoill  Loan Agreement         Interest Rats it)               MailJun Duration  (years)         individual sob-loan   Free Limit         tied or f"-e   Government guarantee
Won in billo    05$ to million                                                                                For M4IB
or eouivalenor     r equivalent                         Borrowins        Relending         For MIB         sub-borrovers
Soose of Funds
I. Foreign Currency
Ri8W
lIt Loan                                      3.04             6.27          Sept. 17, 1965         5.0              8.0                 6                 6          US$300,000                   -                Free                  - 1/
2nd Loan                                      1.62             3.34          Now. 12, 1973          7.0              9.0                30               15           DMI.0 million                -                Free                  - I/
Sub-total                               4.66             9.61                                                                                                   ($418,000)
OECF
1st Lens                                      7.19            14.82          July 27, 1966          7.0              8.0                13               13          US$300,000                    -           Tied to Japan             - I/
2nd Loam                                      3.60             7.41          August 7, 1967         7.0              8.0                13                13          US$200,000                   -           Tied to Japan              -if
Sub-total                              10.79            22.23
Ult Loan                                       2.42            5.00           Auguot 1, 1966         5.0             8.0                15                15          US$200,000              US$100,000       Tied to USA                -
2nd Loam                                      0.98             2.02          July 26, 1967          5.0              8.0                15                15          US$200,000             US$100,000        Tied to USA                - 1/
Sub-total                               3.40             7.02
ADB
Ist Loan                                      4.83             9.96          Dec. 19, 1969          6.875           10.0                15                15          US$300,000             US$150,000          Free 2/                 yes
2nd Loan                                      7.27            15.00          Sept. 3, 1971        Variable
(7.5-5.25)- 9.5-10.25 _               15                15          US$500,000             US$200,000          Free 2/                  Yes
3rd Lose                                     14.55            30.00          Dec.27, 1973          - do -         - do -                15                15          US$600,000             US$300,000          Free 2/                 Yes
Dub-total                              26.63            54.96
Export-Import Bank of Japan                      .734           1.004          June 29, 1971          6.25             8.Z5               13                13          US$600,000                   - _         Tied to Japan             No
Total foreign currency borrowings            14.23-/         111.582
II. Domestic Currency
Government of Kotea
Counterpart Funds                             2.72            5.61           1963-1973              2.0   )  Equipmoet               C  25 )      Equipment           Equipment loans-)
loans - 10            (           )  loans -  8        U30 millio       )S------------------- Not applicable ------------------
Special Account Fond                         12.68          26.14            1962-1974              8.626/)  Cooperative            ( -          Working capital  Working capital )
loana - 12            (  10)       loas.   3           loans - W 20
million             ------------------- Not applicable ------------------
Local Government Fund                         0.12            0.25           1965-1971              9.7 &I)  Working capital
loans - 15.5          (   5)                                              -------------------- Not applicable ------------------
Sob-total                              15.52           32.00
National Investment Fund                        1.63            3.36              1974               10,5              12          Equipment        Equipment           19100 million       ------------------- Not applicable ------_________
loans - 6       loans - 6
Working         Working
capital         capital
loans - 2       loans - 2                               ------------------- Not applicable ------------------
CDB (Industiral Rationslication Fund)          10.40           21.45           1973-1974              10               12          Equipment        Equipment
loams = 8       loans - 8
Worklng         Working
capital         capital
leans - 3       loans - 3
Deposits (o   r  -  yen)                       57.81         119.20 v11.2-15.0                                         15.5          I to 3            I to 3            ----------------------------------- Not applicable ------------------
Total domestic currancy borrowings    85.36             176.01
Total foreign aod domestic currency  139.59             287.83
1/ These loan were origipally borrowed by the Govervoent of Eoseand relent to aIB.
2/ Procurements allowed freely frmo any a ADB  eodber/asaoeiated countries.
3/ Rate as of December 31, 1974.
4/ Net of c.ncellations.
S/  Prior approval of sub-projects nut required.
6/  weighted average of interest rates applicable on loans for working capital (12%), equipment (8%), and
cooperatives finnncing(9%) as of December 31, 1974.
EAP Projects Department
March 11, 1975



KOREA                                             ANNEX 9
Table 1
MEDIIIM IND1JSTRY BANK
Audited Balance Sheets, 1969-74
(Won in million)
As at December 31                                         1969        1970         1971         1972         1973         1974
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and bank deposits                              14,713      24,649       23,937       25,307       37,615       39,153
Short-term investments                               3,973         310        3,560        6,447       10,502         3,533
Short-term workinig capital loans-Z1                25,654      35,788       42,134       45,222       65,074       98,929
Other current assets                                   626       1,475        1,749        4,512          6,269       8.628
Total current assets 1/                         44,966     62,222        71,380       81,488      119,459      150,243
Long-Term Assets:
Domestic currency loans                              7,150       9,186       13,893       24,821       30,021       32,372
(of which working capital loans) 3/                   (166)        (85)      (3,929)    (14,416)    (12,809)        (9, 882)
Foreign currency loans                               6.553       7.833       12,831       14,693       17.003       26,530
Total loans                                     13,703      17.019       26.724       39.514       47,024       58,902
Property and equipment (net) _/                      2           2,946        4,528        5.692        5,274        4.042
Total long-term assets                          15.742      19,965       31,252       45,206       52,298       62.944
Total assets                                    60,708      82,187      102,632      126.694      171,758      213,187
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities,
Borrowings from BOK                                    491         651          955        1,579        4,391       10,253
Demand and savings deposits                         23,271      32,217       33,998       39,299       55,696       71,364
Dividends payable                                        91        124          138           171          185          185
Taxes payable                                         -            -             21           -             10           10
other current liabilities                            1,591       2,150        2,393        4,718       11.026        14,173
Total current liabilities                       25.444      35,142       37,505       45,767       71,308       95.985
Long-Term Liabilitiesl
Special Bonds 5/                                      -           -            -           8,915        8,562        8,222
Deduct:  Equivalent cash deposit 5/                   -           -            -           8,915        8,562         8,222
Net liability for Special Bonds 5/           -          -             -             -            -            -
Saving deposits                                     16,540      25,023       36,198       48,259       55,959       57,808
Borrowings from Government of Korea                  9,732      11,640       12,949       13,812       16,551        15,520
Foreign currency borrowings                          6,566       7,819       12,715       14,734       17,419       27,465
Borrowings from NIF                                   -           -            -            -              -          1,627
Borrowings from IRF                                   -           -            -            -           6,282        10,403
Total long-term liabilities                     32.838      44,482       61,862       76,805       96,211      112,823
Total liabilities                               58,282      79,624       99,367      122,572      167,519      208,808
EQUITY
Paid-in capital                                      1,760       1,760        2,260        3,060        3,060        3,060
Reserves and retained earnings 1/                      666         803        1,005        1,062         1,179        1,319
Equity                                           2426        2,563        3,265        4,122        4.239        4,379
Total liabilities and equity                        60,708      82,187      102,632      126,694      171.,758     213,187
CONTINGENT ASSETS/LIABILITIES
Short-term guarantees                                  519         586          743        1,352        2,429         1,507
Long-term guarantees                                   490       1,324        1.870        1,146         1,025        1.060
Total guarantees                                 1.009       1,910        2,613        2,498        3,454        2,567
1/ In conformity with an accounting practice followed in Korea, MIB records income on an actual receipt basis and expenses
and costs on an accrual basis.  If income accrued but not received is taken into account and reflected in.MIB's balance
sheets, the adjusted figures of current assets and retained earnings would be as follows:
1969      1970      1971      1972       1973      1974
Current Assets - As summarized            44,966      62,222    71,380   81,488   119,460   150,243
Income receivable          531       1,019      1,844    2,153      1,869      2.199
Adjusted figure                     63,241    73224   83,641   121.329   152.442
Retained Earnings - As summarized            666         803      1,005    1,062       1,179      1,319
Income receivable      531       1.019      1.844    2.153       1,869      2,199
Adjusted figure       1,1i97      1,822     2,849     3,215 3,518
2/  Working capital loans of upto one year maturity.
3/ Working capital loans of over one year maturity.
4/  Including property and equipment acquired through foreclosures from sub-borrowers for resale purposes -W2.35 billion
1971, W3.22 billion in 1972, W2.57 billion in 1973 and W1.2 billion in 1974.
5/  5.57, Special Bondsissued to Government of Korea and the proceeds deposited with BOK bearing interest at 12.5%.
This deposit cannot be used for any other purpose.
EAP Projects Department
March 18, 1975



KOREA                                                ANNEX 9
Table 2
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Audited Income Statements, 1969-74
(Won in million)
1969      1970       1971       1972      1973       1974
INCOME I
Interest on loans                               6,517     8,873    11,514    12,268    12,895    17,222
Interest on deposits and short-term
investments                                    896     1,166      1,766      2,916      3,268     2,207
Total interest income                       7,413    10,039    13,280    15,184    16,163    19,429
Commissions, fees, etc.                           271        340    _  442        586      1099        11449
Gross income                                    7 684          10,379    13,722    15,770    17,262    20,878
EXPENSES l/
Interest and financial charges                  4,462     6,229      8,488    10,591    11,587    13,723
Administrative and general expenses             3,028      3,890     4,866      4,941      5,128      6,743
Bad debts written off                                1       -            7          9       236         77
Total expenses                              7,491    10,119    13,361    15,541    16,951    20,543
Income before tax                                 193        260        361       229        311        335
income tax 2/                                     -          -          21        -           10         10
Net income                                        193        260        340        229       301        324
APPROPRIATIONS
Dividends                                          91        124        138        171       185        185
Reserves                                          105        135        200         60       115        139
Unappropriated                                     (3)         1          2         (2)                  -
Total                                         193       260        340        229        301        324
1/ In conformity with an accounting practice generally followed in Korea, MIB records income on an
actual receipt basis and expenses on an accrual basis. Converted on accrual basis both for income and
expenses, net income figures would be as follows:
1969   1970    1971    1972    1973        1974
Net income before adjustment           193    260       340     229      301       324
Adjustment for accrued income          + 31   +488    +825    + 61    +205        +385
Net income (adjusted)                   224    748   1,165      290      506       709
2/  MIB pays income tax only on its income from foreign exchange transactions; its income from other sources
is tax-exempt.
EAP Projects Department
March 10, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 3
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Indicators of Financial Position and Performance, 1969-74
(Won in million)
1969              1970                 1971               1972                1973               1974
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount      %      Amount      %
I.  Total Assets of which                        60,708    -         82,187    -        102,632    -        126,694    -        171,758    -       213,187
Short-term loan portfolio                 25,654    42.3    35,788    43.5    42,134    41.1    45,222    35.7    65,074    37.9   98,929    46.4
Long-term loan portfolio                  13,703    22.6    17,019    20.7    26,724    36.0    39,514    31.2    47,024    27.4   58,902    27.6
Total Long-Term Debts of which               32,838    -         44,482    -         61,862    -         76,805    -         96,211    -       112,823    -
Foreign exchange borrowings                6,566    20.0       7,819    17.6    12,715    20.6    14,734    19.2    17,419    18.1   27,465    24.3
Borrowings from Government                 9,732    29.6    11,640    26.2    12,949    20.9    13,812    18.0    16,551    17.2   15,520    13.8
Deposits y/                               16,540    50.4    25,023    56.2    36,198    58.5    48,259    62.8    55,959    58.2   57,808    51.3
Borrowings from NIF                          -       -           -       -           -       -           -       *          -        -       1,627       1.4
Borrowings from IRF                          -       -           -       -           -       -           -       -         6,282      6.5   10,403      9.2
Equity                                        2,426     -         2,563    -          3,265    -          4,122    -          4,239    -         4,379
Outstanding Guarantees of which               1,009    -          1,910    -          2,613    -          2,498    -          3,454    -         2,567    -
long term                                    490    48.6       1,324    69.3       1,870    71.6       1,146    45.9       1,025    29.7    1,060    41.3
Long-Tem  D /Equity  Ratio127                           -           16.4    -          17.9    -           17.2    -           21.0    -          23.8    -
Total Debt'!Equity Ratio2/                    21.8      -          28.1    -           27.7    -           26.9    -           38.4    -          46.0    -
Current Ratio                                   1.8    -            1.8    -            1.9    -            1.8    -            1.7    -           1.6    -
Acid Test Ratio                                 0.72   -            0.71   -            0.73   -            0.69   -            0.68   -           0.44   -
II. Profit before Provisions as % of
Average Total Assets                                  0.4                  0.4                0.2                 0.2                 0.2               0.2
Net Income as % of Average Net equity                   5.0                 10.4               11.7                 6.2                 7.2                7.5
Reserves and Provisions as % of Average
Total Portfolio
Financial Expenses as % of Average Total                2.0                  1.7                1.7                 1,4                 1.2                1.0
Assets                                                8,6 °.                                   .                   .                   .                  .
Administrative Expenses as % Average                                         8.7                9.2                 9.2                 7.8                7.1
Total Assets                                          6.0                  5.4               5.3                 4.3                 3.4                3.5
Book Value as % of Par Value                            138                  146                144                 135                 139
Gross Earnings as % of Average Assets                  152                  14.51                                                                          143
Debt Service Coverage (times)                           n.a.                 n.a.               1.3                 1.4                 1.7                1.3
Interest on Loans as 7b of Average
Loan Portfolio                                     19.9                 19.3               18.9                16.0                13.1               12.8
Interest on Debts as % of Average Total
Debts 4/                                            9.4                  9.2                9.6                 9.7                 8.0                7.3
Cash dividends as 7, of par value                       5.2                  7.0               6.1                 5.6                 6.0                6.0
Cash dividend payout ratio                            47.2                 47.7               40.6                74.7                61.5               57.0
1/ Including guarantees.
2/ Deposits included are nat of amounts deposited with BOK under reserve requirements.
3/ Of more than one year maturity.
4/ Includes long-term debts as well as short-term debts such as borrowings from
BOK and deposits.
EAP Projects Department
March 20, 1975



KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Status of Loan Portfolio as of December 31, 1974
(Won in million)
Total Outstanding Loans  ------------------------Arrears------------------------   -----Outstanding Loans Affected by Arrears--------
As 7, of                                              As % of
No. of                                                        Total       Total Out-       No. of                   Total           Total Out-
Clients   Amount    %   - Interest  Principal   Total    Arrears   standing Loans-/ Clients   Amount   Affected Loans   standing Loans-
Equipment Loans
Projects under implementation                   113       6,634   13.5          78         18        96       11.3            1.4             4        101            2.7               1.5
Projects under initial staRes of
operational 1/                              299       2,972    6.1         61         64        125       14.7            4.2           15        341            9.1               11.5
Projects in operations 2/                     1,143      39,414   80.4         110       517        627       74.0            1.6          107      3,288           88.2                8.3
(of which those with operational problem)    (71)    (3,614)  (7.4)          (110)      (517)      (627)    (74.0)          (28.1)        (107)   (3,288)          (88.2)             (91.0)
(problem-free projects)                      (1.072)   (35.800) (73.0)       (- )         (       - )  ( - )    (L-)               ( - )(          ( .   )(    )(1
Total                 1,5_55    _49020  100.0          249        599        848     100.0             1.7          126      3.730          100.0                7.6
Working Capital Loans
Projects under implementation 1/                 -         -        -           -           -         -        -              -              -         -              -
Projects in initial stage of
operation                                    860       8,560    7.9          34         95       125        2.8            1.5            30        204            6.2               2.4
Projects in operation                        16,155    100,251   92.1        1,333     3,194      4,527       97.2            4.5          878      3,085            93.8               3.1
(of which those with operational problems)   (914)    (3,085)  (2.8)   (1,333)   (3,194)   (4,527)    (97.2)                (146.7)        (878)   (3,085)          (93.8)            (100.0)
(problem-free projects)                      (15,241)    (97,166) (89.3)     ( -        )  ( - )   ( - )     _                             ( - )      ( - )L1
Total                17,015    108.811  100.0        1.367      3.289     4.656      100.0            4.3           908     3,289           100.0               3.0
Total Loans
Projects under implementation                   113       6,634    4.2          78         18        96        1.7            1.4             4       101             1.4               1.5
Projects in initial stages of
operation 1/                               1,159      11,532    7.3          95        159       254        4.6            2.2            45       545             7.8               4.7
Projects in operation                        17,298    139,665   88.5        1,443     3,711      5,154       93.7            3.7          985      6,373            90.8               4.6
(of which those with operational problems)   (985)    (5,644)  (3.6)   (1,443)   (3,711)   (5,154)    (93.7)                 (91.3)        (985)   (6,373)          (90.8)             112.9
(problem-free projects)                      (16.313)  (134,021)  84i9)            ) -)               -       ( ( -  )  ( -        )    ( -  )          ( - )        ( - )
Total                18,570    157,831  100.0        1,616      3,888     5.504      100.0             3.5        1,034      7,019          100.0               4.4
j/  Projects which have not yet completed first year of operation.
2/ Projects which have completed one year of operation.                                     - 
3  Under respective classification.                                                                                                                                                                 X x
EAP Projects Department
March 27, 1975



KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Analysis of Loans in Arrears as of December 31, 1974
(Won in million)
Domestic
Foreign Currency Loans            Currency Jquipment Loans              Total Equipment Loans               Working Capital Loans                   Total Loans
Arrears        Portfolio            Arrears          Portfolio           Arrears          Portfolio          Arrears          Portfolio          Arrears          Portfolio
No. of             in default       No. of               in default    No. of                 in default   No. of                 in default   No. of                 in default
Clients  Amount  Amount    =b    Clients  Amount  Amount    *h    Clients  Amount  Amount   %    Clients  Amount  Amount   %    Clients  Amount  Amount   %
Nature of Arrears
Principal                               -       158       -                          441       -       -        -       599         _      _        _       3,289-/   -        -        -       3,888       -       -
Interest                                -       132       -       _         _        117       -       -        -       249         _      _        _       1,367       -      -        -       1,616       -       -
Total                        31        290    1,331       5.&1/   95        558     2.399    10.711  126       848       3,730    7.6-/ 908        4,656    3.289-/       1/ 1,034   5.504   7,019          4.41/
Age Distribution
Less than 3 months                      9        29       424    31.9        34      201       864   36.0       43       230      1,288   34.5   258         1,365      677   20.6        301   1,595   1,965       28.0
3 months but less than 6 months    8             30       269    20.2        10       46       199    8.3       18        76        468   12.5   134           632      844   25.6       152       708   1,312      18.7
6 months but less than 12 months   6             37       334    25.1        16      115       494   20.6       22      152         828   22.2   155         1,006      653   19.9        177   1,158   1,481       21.1
12 months but less than 24 months  4             65       162    12.2       15        67       288   12.0       19      132         450   12.1   125           514      265    8.1       144      646       715     10.2
24 months and above                     4       129       142    10.6       20       129       554   23.1       24      258         696   18.7   236        1,139       850   25.8       260   1,397   1,546        22.0
Total                        31        290    1,331    100.0       95      558    2,399  100.0    126          848      3,730  100.0   908         4,656   3_289-/100.0    1,034   5,504   7,019    100.0
Sectoral Distribution
Manufacturing
Food, beverage and tobacco              1         2        33      2.5        8       51       219     9.2       9       53         252    6.8    49           447      301    9.2         58      500,1   553       7.9
Textile, wearing apparel and
leather                             10       110        586    44.0       23      151        646   26.9       33      261      1,232    33.0   134        1,225       715   21.7       167   1,486    1,947       27.7
Wood and  wood products                 -        -         -      -           7       45       193    8.0         7       45        193    5.2    66           404      404   12.3         73      449      597      8.5
Paper, paper products and
printing                             3          7        38      2.9       5        34       146    6.1        8       41         184    4.9    50           293      286    8.7        58      334       470      6.7
Chemicals, petroleum, coal,
rubber and plastics                  3         22        99      7.4       8        52       224    9.3       11       74         323    8.7    56          433       238     7.2       67      507       561      8.0
Non-metallic mineral products           -        -         -      -           5       28       125    5.2        5        28        125     3.3    48          248      180    5.5         53      276      305      4.4
Basic metals                            1         5        44      3.3        3       18        77    3.2        4        23        121    3.2    27           157      138    4.2         31      180      259      3.7
Fabricated metal products
machinery and equipment               3        24       135     10.1       15       92       396   16.5       18      116         531   14.2    73           786      833   25.4         91      902   1,364      19.4
Others                                  5        47       262    19.7         6       38       163    6.8       11        85        425   11.4    32           304        6    0.2         43      389      431      6.1
Total manufacturing          26        217     1.197    89.9       80       509     2.189   91.2    106        726       3.386    90.7   535       4.297    3,101-  94.4         641   5 023   6,487    92.4
Construction                               1         6         30      2.3      -        -          -     -          1        6          30    0.8       1          8       -       -          2       14       30      0.4
Transportation                             4        67        104      7.8      -        -          -      -         4       67         104    2.8    13             1      -       -         17       68      104       1.5
Services and commerce                      _        _        _        _          3        7         30    1.3        3        7         30    0.8    36            72        57     1.7       39       79       87      1.2
Mining                                     -        -         -       -          1        4         17    0.7        1        4          17    0.5       8          38       29    0.9         9       42       46       0.7
Others                                                                          11       38        163    6.8       11       38         163    4.4   315          240       102     3.0      326      278      265      3.8
Total                        31        290     1,331    100.0       95      558     2.399  100.0    126        848       3,730  100.0   908        4 656   3.289- 100.0   1,034   5,504   7.019    100.0
1/  As % of total portfolio.
2/ Principal in arrears is equal to amount of portfolio affected by arrears because working
capital loans are generally repayable in one instalment.
EAP Projects Department
March 27, 1975
NI 



ANNEX 11
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Undertaking by Government of Korea
regarding MIB's Capital Structure _
February 15, 1975
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Subject: MIB's Capital Structure
Gentlemen:
This letter states our Government's intentions in regard to
the capital structure of the Medium Industry Bank (MIB), a matter
which was discussed between the Government, MIB's management and
the IBRD appraisal mission, during the latter's visit to Korea
from January 27 to February 15, 1975.
It is the Government's firm intention to strengthen NIB's
capital structure by substantially increasing its paid-in share capital,
with a view to improving MIB's debt/equity relationship and debt
service coverage, and to augmenting NIB's capacity to contract additional
borrowings needed to sustain its future lending program for Korean
small and medium industry.
With that purpose, the Government of Korea agrees and undertakes
to make additional cash subscriptions into MIB's share capital and/or
to convert into MIB's share capital a portion of existing Government
loans to NIB. The total amount of these cash subscriptions and/or
conversion shall not be less than Won 10 (ten) billion. The above-
mentioned cash subscriptions and/or conversion shall be implemented
before December 31, 1976.
Additionally, the Government intends to continue to provide
MIB with fresh equity funds through cash subscriptions, as needed,
in order to keep MIB's debt/equity rati6 within 10: 1 in the future.
Sincerely yours,
Signed:       Sun Ki Lee
Assistant Minister for
Economic Cooperation
EAP Projects Department
May 30, 1975



ANNEX 12
Table 1
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Projetted Onerations, 1975-79
(Won in million)
974I         1975          1976         1977          1978         1979
(Actual)
Commitments
Foreign currency equipment loans        9,623        11,146       13,758        16,556       19,867        23,840
Domestic currency equipment loans      10,025        12,646       16,085        17,629       19,220        21,281
Total equipment loans              19,638       23,792        29,843       34,185        39,087        45,121
Working capital loans                 610,259       693,         841,866    1,047,700    1,300,480    1,604,149
Total commitments                 629,897       717,336      871,709    1,081,885    1.339.567    1,649,270
Disbursements.
Foreign currency equipment loans       11,726        11,440       12,820        15,612       18,764        22,520
Domestic currency equipment loans       9,310        12,646       16,085        17,629       19,220        21,281
Total equipment loans              21,036       24,086        28,905       33,241        37,984       43,801
Working capital loans                 609,209       693.54       841,866    1,047,700    1,300,480    1,604,149
Total disbursements               630,245      717,630       870,771    1,080,941    1,338,464    1,647,95D
Notes to Projected Operations
1. MIB enters into legal commitment with sub-borrowers immediately after approval of the sub-loan.
Consequently no distinction is made between commitments and approvals.
2. Foreign currency loan commitments are projected, to increase annuaJ4y by 20% except in 1976 (25%). MlB's forei
currency commitments had registered an increase of over 56% in 1974. Projected commitments for 1975 were base:
on actual applications already in-hand and the inquiries received by MIB in early 1975.
3.  Domestic currency loan commitments were based on quantum and type (deposits, increase in capital, NIF, etc.)
of resources expected to become available to MIB. Total commitments are expected to increase by 14% in 1975,
22% in 1976 and 24% thereafter. As compared to the actual growth rate achieved in the past (27.7% in the
latest three years) the projected growth in commitments appears attainable.
4. A time lag of four months is assumed between foreign currency loan commitments and disbursements, based on
MIBts actual operational experience.
5. No time lag is assumed between commitment and disbursement for domestic currency loans. MIB credits
sub-borrowers' account immediately after its signature of loan agreement. Actual amount of domestic
currency loans not drawn-down by the borrowers was W 1.23 billion as of December 31, 1974 which is assumed
to remain unchanged in the projected period.
EAP Projects Department
May 12, 1975



ANNEX 12
Table 2
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Projected Balance Sheets, 1975-79
(Won in million)
As of December 31,                                     1974            1975            1976            1977           1978            1979
(Actual)
ASSETS
Current Aeaetst
Ca3h and bank deposits                           39,153          48,012         61,245           72,448         86,807         105,249
Short-term investments                            3,533           7,733          8,900           10,goo         13,300          15,900
Short-term working capital loans                 98,929         111,386        125,058          144,677        169,870         200,307
Other current assets                              8,628          11,075         13,835           17,355         21,655          26,725
Total current assets                    150,243          178,206        209,038          245,380        291,632         348,181
Long-Term Assets:
Working capital loans                             9,882          17,917         27,419            41,051        58,558          79,710
Domestic currency equipment loans                22,490          30,564         40,833            51,232        61,702          72,463
Foreign currency loans                           26,530          35,145         44,950            57,450        72,650          go9goo
Total long-term loan portfolio            58,902          83,626        113,202          149,733        192,910         243,073
Deduct:  Provision for bad debts  l/               -                150            350               600           900           1,300
Net long-term loan portfolio              5,                            112,852          149,133        192,010           7
Property and equipment (net)                      4,042           4,855          5,823             6,568         7,563           8,458
Total long-term assets                   62,944           88,331        118,675          155,701        199,573         250,231
Total assets                            213,187          266,537        327,713          4i,o8l         4g,205          598,412
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Borrowings from BOK                              10,253          16,953         20,850            25,250        30,350          36,650
Short-term deposits                              71,364          87,531        107,331           130,981       159,581         194,231
Dividends payable                                   185             245          1,567             2,000         2,600           3,200
Taxes payable                                        10              70             90               115           145             175
Other current liabilities                        14,173          21,689         25,067            29,256        34,895          40,824
Total current liabilities                95,985          126,488        154,905          187,602        227,571         275,080
Long-Term Liabilities:
Special Bonds                                     8,222           7,872          7,470             7,070         6,670           6,270
Deduct:  Cash deposit                             8,222           7,872          7,470            7,070          6,670           6,270
Net liability                               -               -              -                 -             -
Foreign currency borrowings                      27,465          35,806         45,450            57,800        72,950          91,150
Saving deposits                                  57,808          71,620         87,820           107,170       130,570         158,920
Borrowings from -                                                                      2/ 
Government of Korea                          15,520          13,403          5,717-            4,606         3,211           2,473
NIF                                           1,627           5,927         12,699            20,099        27,899          35,999
IRF                                          10,403           8,700          6,340            4,490          3.360           2,230
Total long-term borrowings              112,823          135,456        158,026          194,165        237,990         290,772
Total liabilities                       208,8o8          261,944        312,931          381,767       .465,561.        565,852
EQUITY
Paid-in capital                                   3,o60           3,o60         13,060o           16,660         21,660         26,660
Reserves and retained earnings                    1,319           1,533          1,722             2,654          3,984          5,900
Equity                                     4,379           4,593         14,782            19,314        25,644           32,560
Total liabilities and equity             213,187         266,537        327,713           401,081       491,205          598,412
CONTINGENT ASSETS/LIABILITIES
Short-term guarantees                             1,507           2,002          2,580             3,360         4,380           5,700
Long-term guarantees                              1,060           1,335          1,720             2,240         2,920           3,800
Total guarantees                          2,567            3,337          4,300            5,600          7,300           9,500
1/ Also covers short-term working capital loans and guarantees.
2/ The projected share capital increase by W1O billion (already agreed by government) is assumed to come from both a new
cash subscription (W5 billion) and a conversion into MIB's equity of some existing Government loans (W5 billion).
EAP Projects Department
May 16, 1975



ANNEX 12
Table 3
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Projected Income Statement, 1975-79
(Won in million)
1974           1975            1976            1977             1978              1979
(Actual)
INCOME
Interest on loans                           17,222           23,472          29,149           36,070           44,362           54,275
Interest on deposits, short-term             2,207            2,684           3,170            3,515            3,982            4,511
investment, etc.                             -
Total interest income                     19,429           26,156          32,319           39,585           48,344           58,786 v
Commissions, fees, etc.                      1 449            2 317           3,020            3 651            4,540            5,523
Gross income                             _25.33        4 237               35,33            _526,09
EXPENSES
Interest and financeriel charges            13,723           19,101          22,943           27,686           33,835           41,146
Administrative and general expenses          6,743            8,693          10,350           12,253           14,674           17,472
Provision for bad debts                         77              150             200              250              300              400
Total expenses                            20,543           27,944          33 493           40 189           48,809           59,018
Income before tax                                    335              529          1,8              3,04             4,075            5,291
Income tax l/                                         10               70              0              115              145              175
Net income                                           325              459           1,756            2,932            3,930            5,116
APPROPRIATIONS
Dividends                                      185              245           1,567            2,000            2,600            3,200
Transfer to reserves                            40              214             189              932            1,330            1,916
Unappropriated balance                            -                                              -                -                -
Total                                          325              459i,7_56                      2,932            3,930            5=116
1/ Only on income accruing from foreign exchange transactions. MIB is exempt from income tax on other transactions.
UAP Projects Department
Yay 30, 1975



ANNEX 12
Table 4
KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Projected Caah-Flow,1975-79
(Won in million)
1975          1976         1977          1978          1979
SOURCES
Profit before tax    1/                     529           1,846        3,047         4,Q75         5,291
Add:  Non-cash items -I                     397             541          605           605           305
Funds generated by operations               92            2,387        3,652                       6,096
Increase in paid-in capital 2/              -             5,000        3,600         5,000         5,000
Drawdowns on -
Foreign currency loans                 11,440         12,820       15,612        18,764        22,520
Borrowings from Government               -               -            -             -             -
Borrowings from Bank of Korea 3/      106,723        126,917      153,380       184,170       222,540
Borrowings from NIF                     4,300          6,811        7,439         8,110         9,270
New deposits received (net increase)      29,979         36,000       43,000        52,000        63,000
Increase in other current liabilities      7,516          3,378        4,189         5,639         5,929
Loan collections -
Working capital loans                 673,o52        818,692     1,014,449   1,257,780      1,552,560
Domestic currency equipment loans       4,572          5,816         7,230        8,750        10,520
Foreign currency loans                  2.825          3,015         3,112        3,564         4,270
Total sources            841,333      1,020,836     1,255,663    1,548,457     1,901,705
USES
Investment in property and equipment       1,060          1,309        1,100         1,300         1,300
Disbursement of -
Working capital loans                 693,544        841,866    1,047,700     1,300,480     1,604,1149
Domestic currency equipment loans      12,646         16,085       17,629        19,220        21,281
Foreign currency loans                 11,440         12,820       15,612        18,764        22,520
Repayments of -
Foreign currency loans                  3,099          3,176        3,262         3,614         4,320
Borrowings from Government              2,117          2,686        1,111         1,395           738
Borrowings from Bank of Korea 3/      100,023        123,020      148,980       179,070       216,240
Borrowings from NIB                       _               39           39           310         1,170
Borrowings from IRF (KDB)               1,703          2,360        1,850         1,130         1,130
Payments of -
Tax                                        10             70           90           115          1145
Dividends                                 185            245        1,567         2,000         2,600
Increase in short-term investments         4,200          1,167        2,000         2,400         2,600
Increase in other current assets           2,347          2,76o        3,520         4,300         5,070
Total uses                832,1474     1,007,603    1,244,460     1,534,098     1,883,263
Cash surplus/Ashortage)                    8,859         13,233       11,203        14,359        18,442
Opening cash balance 4/                   39,153         48,012       61,245        72,448        86,807
Closing cash balance Z/                   48,012         61,245       72,448        86,807       105,249
1/ Allowance for depreciation and provisions for bad debts.
2/  Increase deriving from assumed cash subscription
3/  Short-term borrowings.
4/ Including bank deposits and cash deposit against Special Bonds
EAP Projects Department
May 30, 1975



ANNEX 12
Table 5
MEDIUM INIDUSTY BANK
Indicators of Projected Financial Position and Performance, 1975-79
Won in million)
1974 (Actual)          197                1976               1977               1978               1979
AoAmount            m tAmountAunt                                         7
I.   Total Assets of which                              213,187     -      266,537     -     327,713      -     401,081      -     4191,25      -     598,412
Short-term  loan portfolio                      98,929    46.4   111,386    41.8   125,058    38.2   144,677    36.1   169,870    34.6   200,307    33.5
Long-term loan portfolio 9/                     58,902    27.6    83,476    31.3   112,852    34.4   149,133    37.3   192,010    39.1   241,773    40.4
Total long-term debts of which                    112 823      -     135,456      -     158,o26      -     149,133      -     237,990      -     290,772      -
In foreign exchange                             27,465    24.3    35,806    26.4    45,450    28.9    57,800    29.7    72,950    30.7    91,150    31.3
Borrowings from -
Government of Korea                          15,520    13.8    13,403      9.9      5,717     3.6      4,606     2.4      3,211     1.3      2,473     0.9
NIF                                           1,627      1.4     5,927      4.4    12,699     8.0    20,099    10.4    27,899    11.7    35,999    12.4
ImF                                          10,403      9.2     8,700     6.4      6,340     4.o      4,490     2.3      3,360     1.4      2,230     0.8
Deposits                                        57,808    51.3    71,620    52.9    87,820    55.6   107,170    55.2  130,570    54.9   158,920    54.6
Owners' equity                                      4,379      -       4,593      -      14,782      -      19,314      -      25,644      -      32,560      -
Outstanding guarantees                               2,567     -       3,337      -       4,300      -       5,600      -       7,300      -       9,500      -
Of which long-term                            1,060    41.3      1,335    40.0      1,720    40.o      2,240    40.0      2,920    40.0      3,800    40.0
Long-term debt/equity ratio                          23.8               26.8              9.7                9.1                 8.4               8.1
Total debt/equity ratio                             46.o               50.7              18.8               17.5               16.1               15.4
Current ratio                                        1.6                1.4               1.3                1.3                1.3                1.3
Acid test ratio                                       o.44               o.44             o.45               o.44               o.44                o.44
II.  Profit before provisions !/as % of average
total assets                                                0.2                0.3                0.7               0.9                 1.0                1.0
Bet income as % of average equity                              7.5               10.2               18.1               17.2               17.5               17.6
Reserves and provisions i/as % of average
total portfolio                                             1.0                1.0                0.9               0.9                1.0                 1.0
Financial expenses as % of average total assets                7.1                8.0                7.7                7.5                7.6                7.6
Administrative expenses as % of average
total aessets                                               3.5                3.6                3.5                3.3               3.3                 3.2
Book value as % of par value                                    143                150                113                116                118                122
Gross earnings as % of average total assets                   10.8              1U.9                11.9               11.7               U.9                11.8
Cash dividend  as % of par value                               6.o                8.0               12.0               12.0               12.0               12.0
Cash dividend pay out ratio                                   57.0               53.4               89.2               68.2               66.2               62.5
Debt service coverage (times)2/                                1.3                1.4                1.4                1.5                1.5                1.5
Interest on loans as % of average loan
portfolio                                                  12.8               13.3               13.5               13.6               13.5               13.5
Interest on debts as % of average total assets                 7.3                8.4                8.3                8.3                8.3                8.2
For bad debts and tax.
Deposits are taken net of BOK's reserve requirements for calculation of this ratio.
/ For tax and bad debts.
For bad debts.
2/ Covers long-term as well as short-term liabilities except demand deposits.
ZAP Projects Department
May 16, 1975



ANNEX 1 3
KOREA
MEIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Estimated Schedule of Commitments and Disburaments
under Proposed Bank Loan
Commitments             Disbursements
Amount      %  1/       Amount         %  _
1976
1st Quarter                        2.5      8.3            0.1          0.3
2nd Quarter                        5.0    16.7             0.7          2.3
3rd Quarter                        7.0    23.3             3.1         10.4
4th Quarter                        7.5    25.0             5.4         18.0
End 1976                     22.0    73.3             9.3        31.0
1977
1st Quarter                        4.0    13.3             6.8         22.7
2nd Quarter                        2.0      6.7            6.5         21.7
3rd Quarter                        1.5      5.0            3.6         12.0
4th Quarter                        0.5      1.7            1.9          6.3
End 1977                      8.0    26.7            18.8         62.7
1978
1st Quarter                        -        -              1.2          4.0
2nd Quarter                        -        -              0.4          1.3
3rd Quarter                        -        -              0.2          0.7
4th Quarter                        _        -              0.1          0.3
End 1977                                -              1.9         6.3
Total           30.0   100.0             30.0       100.0
1/ As percentage of total loan amount ($30 million).
EAP Projects Department
October 16, 1975



KOREA
MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Organization Chart as of June 30, 1975
President          |
Woo-Keun K,rn
eputy Pesiden
DDirector                     Dr                              Director                          Director                      Director
Chu-Hee                     nChong-Hwan Km   |           |      ang Shur Park    lJae-Sup Kim                                 Heung-Shik Choi
Aud,t,ng                          lann ng and                    Personnel                      Loan Operations                 Loan Settlement              Research and Statistics                   Secretariat
Staff 33                         Coordination                    Staff 2932/                    Staff 40                        Staff 26                     Staff 57                                  Staff 25
Cooperative Fmnancin|           Savings Development             Business Improvement             Credit Investigation               Poreign Loan
Staff 19                        Staff 20                       Staff 30                          Staff 26                          Staff 42
Credit Guarantee              tSecuriy Planning                Extension Services               General Services                 International
Staff 19                       Staff 33                        Staff 34                         Staff 148                        Staff 91
Branches (60f and
Deposit Officers (15)
Staff 2211
Staff          Total          Branches          Head Office
Total          3201 -         2211              990
Professional    749            471              278
Clerical       1235            722              513
- Including 241 staff members under
military service.                                                          Others         1217           1018               199                                                                         World Bank-9765(2R)






IBRD 11602
1291 S2AY 19-75a
N  KOEMMc,o                                                                                                                 Es              e
WoChina*d> Seas                                                                                                                            Sea
ye~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ // w                          ~                                            ' >        N/<<                            38--
37-.~IRSdGh Anysn<JeonA   G                                                                                 EO
Yello w   Sea                                                 oMnu
36'~~~~~~~~~16                                                                                                                   Smho
TI. ~  ~         ~       ~        , 6-d.11 O.  th   4  In    m /        v          E"'         nYf
8eobseongk ~ ~ ~ yon ?                                                    e \r   ~   GYEONGVsong;\\   
37-
-37-~~~                                                                        ~         ~~~~~~  , +ns0 \ h?               7tJ          ^
35,t-                                                   {              >                t          <<    amcheohn
.  Ci r -.-'.PGEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF -MIB
*,4 XX                      ~BRANCHES AND DEPOSIT OFFICES
NA
'~~~~           ~~~           e o                              X     OBSACF
rs                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~I---IF-  RAILWAYS
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~SPECIAL CITIES
'  '- RIVERS
- - - PROVINCIAL 80UNDARIES
JeUl                                                    - -   - INTFRNATIONAL SOUNDARIES
E J UX                                      0      20    40    60    SO    100    n?o   140  X60
-(~~~~~~I                                                                KILOMETERS
,~~~~~~~~~o See+  ulE
125-                            126-                             127-                             128-                            129-
I  0                            I                               I                               i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Us



