CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1175 KO
Guarantee Agreement
(Medium Industry Bank Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 26, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1175 KO
Guarantee Agreement
(Medium Industry Bank Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 26, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 26, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and The Medium Industry Bank (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has
agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual


﻿4
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall take all necessary steps and actions to
enable the Borrower to increase its capital stock within a period and by such an
amount as shall be agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Sections
2.01 and 2.02 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever
there is reasonable cause to believe that the Capital of the Borrower will be
inadequate to reach by December 31, 1976, and maintain thereafter, the Borrower s
debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower
or cause the Borrower to be provided with such Capital as shall be necessary or
advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the


﻿5
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister, Economic Planning Board of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿6
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s / Yoon Sae Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


