OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 4448-MR
Agreement providing for the
Amendment and Restatement of the
Financing Agreement
(Business Environment Enhancement Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated               , 2013


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4448-MR
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT
OF THE FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       LA ,!IL            2013, entered  into  between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("Association"). The Recipient and the Association
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT
1.01.  The  Financing  Agreement for Credit Number 4448-MR        ("Financing
Agreement") is hereby amended and restated so as to read as set forth in the
Annex hereto.
ARTICLE II - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
2.01.  Except as provided below, the Current Guidelines (as defined in the Annex to
this Agreement) shall apply to all contracts for goods, works and services under
the Project, whether entered into before or after the date of this Agreement.
2.02.  Where, in the case of contracts for which the invitation to bid or request for
proposals was issued on or before November 30, 2012, the relevant contracts do
not provide for the application of the Current Guidelines or otherwise allow for
such application, the applicable guidelines shall be those which applied
immediately prior to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - ENTRY INTO FORCE
3.01.  This Agreement shall become effective upon the date of its signature by both
parties.


﻿2
AGREED at   .                                    L f<{À &  ,  as of the
day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITAN
By                                                    -,,r
Authori   epresentative
Name: Si i 5
Title:t-f\r ST;'    C&  EC0rsJ 0b
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Authoriz d Represe
Title:               nc cq(R -S(e


﻿ANNEX
CREDIT NUMBER 4448-MR
Financing Agreement
(Business Environment Enhancement Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 1, 2008


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4448-MR
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated July 1, 2008, entered into between the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA ("Recipient") and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("Association"). The Recipiem and the Association
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - FINANCING
2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
three million and two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 3,200,000) (variously, "Credit" and "Financing") to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
2.04. The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. The Payment Currency is the Dollar.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the
Program. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a)    The Recipient has adopted a Project Implementation Manual in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)    The Recipient has opened an account at a commercial bank acceptable to
the Association for the deposit of the funds for the financing of such
portion of the Project's expenditures which will not be financed from the
proceeds of the Financing, and has made an initial deposit in an amount
equivalent to one hundred thousand Dollars ($100,000) into said account.
4.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
4.03.  For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01.  The Recipient's Representative is the Recipient's minister at the time responsible
for economy.


﻿5.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Minister of Economic Affairs and Development
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
BP 197
Nouakchott
Mauritania
Facsimile:
(222) 525.33.35
5.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:               Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
AGREED at Nouakchott, Islamic Republic of Mauritania, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By
/s/ Abderrahmane Ould Hama Vezaz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Frangois Rantrua
Authorized Representative


﻿-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the business climate for financial
institutions and other targeted private sector enterprises in the Recipient's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Improving the business climate to foster private sector development
Support the Recipient's efforts to improve the business climate, and in particular
to:
(a)    Strengthen the financial sector and improve access to finance, including
through: (i) (A) strengthening of the institutional capacity of the
Recipient's central bank; (B) preparing a supervision manual and an
accounting plan for insurance companies; and (C) modernizing the credit
registry of the Recipient's central bank; and (ii) strengthening of the
banking and microfinance sectors.
(b)    Improve the legal and judicial framework for business and financial
activities, including through: (i) the provision of support for the
organization and registration of land titles; (ii) the simplification of debt
collection and contract enforcement mechanisms; (iii) the strengthening
of judicial capacities with respect to commercial law, financial law and
commercial dispute resolution; (iv) the provision of support for the
revision of the commercial code and key implementation decrees; and (v)
the provision of support for the modernization and computerization of
the commercial registry located at the Recipient's chamber of commerce
and in the commercial courts in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou.
(c)    Streamline the regulatory environment for business, including through
the provision of support to the Recipient's directorate for the promotion
of private sector, and reduce administrative barriers for commercial
activities, through: (i) the preparation of reforms to facilitate enterprise
creation, in particular through the establishment and operationalization of
a one-stop shop, the payment of taxes, and access to credit; (ii) the
promotion of public-private dialogue, dissemination of public private
partnership methodologies and the preparation of a new private sector
development strategy; and (iii) the provision of support for the
operationalization of the Nouadhibou special economic zone and the
development of related regulations.


﻿-5-
Part 2: Building Public-Private Partnerships and Productivity Enhancement
Support the Recipient's efforts to reform its public sector and enhance
productivity, and in particular to: (a) improve corporate governance in selected Public
Enterprises through the carrying out of operational and financial audits; and (b) enhance
strategic planning in the electricity sector.
Part 3: Support for Project Implementation
Support the Recipient's efforts to manage the Project, and in particular to
strengthen its fiduciary capacities (including financial management, procurement,
reporting and controls, monitoring and evaluation, and communication).


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.    Implementation Arrangements
A.     Institutional Arrangements
1.     Steering Committee
(a)    The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the Steering
Committee, with terms of reference, composition and resources satisfactory to
the Association.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a), the Steering
Committee shall be responsible for providing overall Project strategic guidance
and oversight, and shall meet at least once every quarter to review the progress in
the implementation of the Project and of the Program.
2.     The Project Implementation Unit
(a)    The Recipient shall establish, no later than June 15, 2013, and thereafter
maintain, throughout Project implementation, the Project Implementation Unit
within the authority of the Recipient's ministry responsible for economy, with
terms of reference, composition and resources satisfactory to the Association.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) immediately above,
the Project Implementation Unit shall be responsible for Project implementation
and coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and shall provide necessary
guidance to the Executing Agencies, including technical assessment of the
proposed reforms.
(c)    The Recipient shall ensure that, throughout the implementation of the Project, the
Project Implementation Unit has sufficient resources available
(d)    Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (c) immediately above,
the Project Implementation Unit shall include staff sufficient in number, with
terms of reference, qualification and experience satisfactory to the Association,
and each selected in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this
Schedule 2 including, inter alia: (i) a Project coordinator; (ii) a procurement
specialist; (iii) a financial management specialist; (iv) an internal auditor; (v) an
executive administrative and accounting assistant; and (vi) a monitoring and
evaluation specialist.


﻿-7-
3.     The Executing Agencies
(a)    Each Executing Agency shall be responsible for the preparation and technical
implementation of its respective activities and shall report to the Project
Implementation Unit on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Recipient's central
bank shall be responsible for the procurement related to its activities
implemented under Part (1)(a) of the Project, with the support of the Project
Implementation Unit. The Recipient shall ensure that, throughout Project
implementation, each Executing Agency maintains a level of institutional
resources and capacity sufficient to efficiently prepare and implement its
respective activities under the Project.
(b)    Each Executing Agency shall propose activities to be implemented under the
Project which will be approved or declined, prioritized, sequenced and
consolidated by the Project Implementation Unit in the Project Implementation
Plan, on the basis of: (i) the strategic guidance provided by the Steering
Committee, (ii) the capacity of the relevant Executing Agency for its
implementation, and (iii) as the case may be, the performance of the Executing
Agency in the implementation of activities previously implemented under the
Project. The Project Implementation Plan will be updated by the Project
Implementation Unit on an annual basis, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
B.     Project Manuals
1 .    The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, and, unless the Recipient and
the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of
the Project Implementation Manual, in a manner which, in the opinion of the
Association, could have a material adverse impact on the implementation of the
Project.
2.     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (1) immediately above, the
Recipient shall ensure that the activities implemented by the Recipient's central
bank shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Implementation Manual, including those related to procurement.
3.     In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Implementation
Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.


﻿-8-
Section II.  Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A.     Project Reports
I.    The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the relevant annual Project Implementation Plan
and indicators acceptable to the Association. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Association not
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
2.     For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Association not later than May 31, 2015.
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.    The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
Conditions.
2.     The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association.
3.     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project
Preparation Advance was made. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the
end of such period.
Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
1.    Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions
of this Section.
2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance


﻿-9-
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1.     International Competitive Bidding.   Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which
may be used for goods. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection.    Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection
(b) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Single Source Selection
(d) Selection ofIndividual Consultants


﻿-10-
D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
(a)    The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the Association.
(b)    All Training activities will be carried out on the basis of annual programs
submitted annually for the prior approval of the Association identifying the
general framework of the Training activities for the year, including: (i) the type
of Training; (ii) the justifications for the Training; (iii) the personnel to be
trained; (iv) the selection method of the institutions or individuals conducting the
Training; (v) the institution which will conduct the Training; (vi) the duration of
the proposed Training; and (vii) the estimated cost estimate of the Training.
Upon completion of each Training, the Recipient shall cause the trainee to
prepare, and shall transfer to the Association, a report on the Training received.
Section IV.   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A.     General
1.     The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:


﻿- 11 -
Percentage of
Amount of the     Expenditures to be
Financing Allocated      Financed
Category              (expressed in SDR)   (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and consultants' services      828,900             90%
for the Project including Training
and audits (from the date of
signature of the Financing
Agreement to November 30,
2012)
(2) Training and audits for retroactive   21,400             90%
financing
(3) Refund of Project Preparation        196,700      Amount payable
Advance                                            pursuant to Section
2.07 of the General
Conditions
(4) Goods and consultants' services    2,153,000             90%
for the Project including Training,
audits and Operating Costs
(starting from December 1, 2012)
TOTAL AMOUNT                           3,200,000
B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .   Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 196,700 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after February 1, 2008, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (2).
2.     The Closing Date is November 30, 2014.


﻿- 12 -
Section V.    Other Undertakings
A.     Financial monitoring and reporting
1.     Throughout the Project implementation, the Recipient shall cause each
commercial bank operating on the Recipient's territory to have its Financial
Statements prepared and audited in accordance with the rules and regulations
issued by the Recipient's central bank. Each audit of the financial statements
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of said commercial bank. Each audit
report for each such period shall be furnished to the Association no later than
nine months after the end of such period, or such other date as may be agreed
upon by the Association.
2.     Throughout the Project implementation, the Recipient shall cause each of the
Public Enterprises having benefited from an activity implemented under Part 2 of
the Project to have the report prepared by its external auditors (commissaires aux
comptes) on its financial statements published each year on the Recipient's
website www.mauritania.mr, or any other site selected in agreement with the
Association, no later than three months after the date of delivery of the final
report from the auditor to such Public Enterprise.
3.     Throughout the Project implementation, the Recipient shall cause to be prepared
and furnished to the Association, no later than July 31 each year, or such other
date as may be agreed upon by the Association, the Recipient's central bank
annual report, which includes, inter alia, the audited Financial Statements of the
central bank, all in form, scope and level of details satisfactory to the
Association.
B.     Mid-Term review
No later than thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as
may be agreed upon by the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient and the
Association shall carry out a mid-term review of the Project, covering the
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. The Recipient shall
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to
the Association three months prior to the beginning of such mid-term review of
the Project, or on such other date agreed upon with the Association in writing, a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to this Agreement, on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report, and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives of the Project during the period following
such date.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due                Principal Amount of the Credit
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each April 15 and October 15:
commencing October 15, 2018 to and including             1%
April 15, 2028
commencing October 15, 2028 to and including             2%
April 15, 2048
* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
2.     "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
3.     "DGPIP" means the general directorate for the promotion of private investment
(Digation G6nirale i la Promotion de l'Investissement Priv6) established by
the Recipient pursuant to decree 130/2007 of July 5, 2007, or any successor
responsible for the promotion of private investment whose terms of reference,
composition and resources are satisfactory to the Association.
4.     "Executing Agency" means a Recipient's ministry or agency which is a direct
beneficiary of an activity implemented under the Project including, inter alia, the
central bank (Banque Centrale de Mauritanie - BCM), the DGPIP, and the
ministry responsible for justice.
5.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010.
6.     "Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred by the
Project Implementing Unit, based on the Project Implementation Plan as
approved by the Association, on account of Project implementation,
management, and monitoring and evaluation, including the reasonable costs for
utilities and office supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation,
maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment
maintenance, public awareness-related expenses, travel and supervision, and
salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees,
honoraria, and bonuses of members of the Recipient's civil service.
7.     "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8.     "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 13, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
9.     "Program" means the program designed to address policy, institutional and legal
constraints for the efficient operation of the financial sector and the promotion of


﻿- 15 -
private sector investment on the Recipient's territory, and set forth or referred to
in the letter entitled Lettre de Politique de Diveloppement des Secteurs Privi et
Financier (Letter of development policy for the private and financial sectors)
dated February 12, 2008, addressed by the Recipient to the Association.
10.    "Project Implementation Unit" means the team to be established by the Recipient
within the Recipient's ministry responsible for economy for the coordination of
the Project in accordance with Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Financing
Agreement.
11.   "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual adopted by the Recipient,
outlining implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and
evaluation, financial management, disbursement, procurement arrangements and
accounting procedures, as shall have been agreed with the Association for
purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the prior written concurrence of the Association, and such term
includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual.
12.    "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan satisfactory to the Association
adopted by the Recipient, for the sequenced implementation of the activities
included in the Project, and thereafter updated on an annual basis in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual.
13.    "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on January 24, 2007 and
on behalf of the Recipient on February 9, 2007.
14.    "Public Enterprise" means an enterprise: (i) in which the Recipient is a
stakeholder, and (ii) whose activity has an impact considered by the Recipient
and the Association substantial on the development of the private sector.
15.    "Steering Committee" means the committee entitled "Comiti de Pilotage du
Projet d'Appui aux Secteurs Privi et Financier" established by the Recipient by
Decision no. 407/DGPIP of February 7, 2008 and complemented by Decision
no. 519/DGPIP of February 18, 2008, whose composition may be subsequently
modified subject to the Association's prior written consent.
16.    "Training" means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities,
carried out on the basis of annual programs specified in Section Ill. D (b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and such term includes seminars, workshops, and
study tours, and costs associated with such activity include travel and subsistence
costs for training participants, costs of securing the services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials and other
costs directly related to course preparation and implementation related to the
Project.


