Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
I                          ,~~~~L ,Al    ,5  /-X
Repowt No. 7556-K0
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 20, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of



CURRENCY EOUIVALVITS
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1              -  W 700 (as of November 1, 1988)
US$1.43           -  W 1,000
US$1 million      -  W 700 million
US$1,429          -  W 1 million
FISCAL YEA
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (M)                   -  3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kin2)         0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)  _ 0.01 km2     -  2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                -  2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)           = 2,204.6226 pounds (lbs)
1.1023 short tons
(sh tons or 2,000 lbs)        -  0.9842 long tons (lg ton or 2,240 lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT  - Annual Average Daily Traffic
BPR   - Bureau of Public Roads
EPB   - Economic Planning Board
ERR   - Economic Rate of Return
GNP   - Gross National Product
HNMP  - Highway Network Master Plan
KHC   - Korea Highway Corporation
KRPA  - Korea Maritime and Port Administration
KNR   - Korean National Railroad
MOC   - Ministry of Construction
MOER  - Ministry of Energy and Resources
MOHA  - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT   - Ministry of Transportation
RMMS  - Road Maintenance Management System
VOC   - vehicle operating costs
VPD   - vehicles per day



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KORE
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJE
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Korea
Amount:                 US$200 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Project Objectives and Description:  The project would support three principal
road-related Government objectives: enhancing transport
efficiency by upgrading extisting roads and by improving
road maintenance; expanding traffic capacity by widening
roads; and increasing traffic safety. The project would
include the following components: (a) paving, upgrading
and widening of about 270 km of the national road system;
(b) establishment of a new road maintenance management
system including periodic maintenance of about 700 km
ot paved roads; (c) implementation of selected aspects
of the national road safety program including safety-
conscious design of project facilities, modification of
design standards and practices and physical improvement
of known hazardous road locations, and preparation of
road safety guidelines; and (d) the provision of
equipment, consultants services, and training and
equipment for road sector development.
Benefits and Risks:     The main benefits quantified axe lower vehicle operating
costs in the case of paving existing gravel roads and
reduced congestion in the case of road widening. The
project also provides benefits associated with the
introduction of the modern road maintenance management
system and various road safety measures and programs.
The project poses no major risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Proiect Cost:                              Local     Foreig        Total
- - - (US$ million) - - -
Upgrading & Widening                 150.1       127.9       278.0
Road Maintenance                      35.2        30.0        65.2
Equipment                              1.0         4.0         5.0
Base Cost(10/88 prices)       186.3        161.9       348.2
Contingencies
Physical                            18.0        16.8        34.8
Price                                9.1        21.3        30.4
Right-of-way                          99.7         0.0        99.7
Total Cost                    313.1        200.0       513.1
(of which taxes & duties)            41.3                     41.3
Financing Plan:                            Local     Foreig        Total
- - - (US$ million) - - -
Government                   313.1          -         313.1
Bank                                      200.0       200.0
Total Finance                313.1        200.0       513.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                90      91       92       93      94
- - - - - - - - (US$ million) - - - - -
Annual                 24       60      66       38      12
Cumulative             24      84      150      188     200
Economic Rate of Return: 27%
MUg: No. IBRD 21309



- iii -
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Proiect Summary                                                          i
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...  1
A. Geographic and Economic Setting  .1.. .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
B. The Transport Syste . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
C. Government Objectives for the Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
D. Transport Investments  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    3
E. Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
2. THE ROAD SECTOR  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
A. The Network  .5...  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    S
B. Road Transport .5...  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    S
C. Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Economic Planning Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Ministry of Construction  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    7
Ministry of Transportation  ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
Ministry of Home Affairs  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    7
D. Highway Planning and Financing ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    7
E. Highway Sector Development Plan (1987-91)  . . . . . . . . . . .   10
F. Design and Construction .12
G. Road Safety .13
H.  Maintenance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
I. Energy Conservation  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   16
J. Previous Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector . . . . . . .   16
3.  THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
A. Project Objectives and Rationale ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   17
B. Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
C. Cost Estimates ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   20
D. Financing  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   21
E. Implementation ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   21
F. Procurement  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   22
G. Disbursements  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   23
H. Auditing ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   24
I. Progress Reporting and Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
J. Environmental Aspects  ......  .         .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..   .   24
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND PROJECT RISKS  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   25
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
L.M. Hannah (economist), R. de Silva (country officer), G. Menckhoff (transport
specialist), and consultants B. Bjelogrlic (highway engineer) and A.Ross (road
safety specialist) which visited Korea in October/November 1988.



- iv -
Annexes
Annex 1: The Road Sector
Part A - Public Road Network 1967-87
Part B - Expenditure on Roads (Fifth and Sixth 'ive Year Plan)
Part C - Design Standards
Annex 2: Road Safety
Part A - Road Safety Component Background
Part B - MOC Road Safety Implementation Program
Part C - Road Safety Guidelines Terms of Reference
Part D - Hazardous Location Improvement Program Terms of Reference
Annex 3: Road Maintenance
Part A - Background to Road Maintenance and Implementation Program
Part B - Road Maintenance, Survey and Laboratory Equipment
Annex 4: Project Costs and Disbursements
Part A - Detailed Cost Estimates
Part B - Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 5: Implementation. Training and Project Monitoring
Part A - Land Acquisition and Compensation Procedures
Part B - Training
Part C - Project Monitoring Indices
Annex 6: Selected Docunents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geogranhic and Economic Settin;
1.1         The Republic of Korea has a land area of 99,100 sq km.  About 66%
of the land area is mountainous and agriculture is confined to about 22,400 sq
km, or 23% of the total area, mainly in the river valleys, lower hillsides and
coastal plains.  The climate is seasonal with very cold dry winters and hot
humid summers.   Annual rainfall averages 800 mm to 1,400 mm with about 60%
falling between June and September.   The land mass is drained by a well
developed river system with seasonal variations in flow which give rise to
frequent flooding. The rugged terrain, extensive river system and severe winter
climate make the construction and maintenance of transport facilities,
particularly roads, difficult and costly.
1.2         Korea's population is presently estimated at 42 million and growing
at an annual rate of 1.2%. Population density is estimated at 424 persons per
sq km of total area or 1,875 per sq km of agricultural land. Urban population
is estimated to be growing at an annual rate of 5.7% and has increased from 41%
of the total in 1970 to 65% in 1987.   The increasing urban population has
created significant transport demand in the areas around the cities and
industrial centers and particularly in the Seoul greater metropolitan area.
1.3         Korea's  export-led  industrialization has  been  among  the most
successful examples of economic development in recent history. During 1962-78,
real Gross National Product (GNP) grew by 10% p.a. and per capita income more
than tripled in real terms. After a brief but serious recession in 1979-81,
the Korean economy recovered its growth momentum, with real GNP increasing by
more than 9% in 1983 and 8% in 1984, although it declined to 5% in 1985.  Korea
returned to a high export and growth trajectory thereafter registering growth
rates of 12.5% in 1986, 12.7% in 1987 and 12.2% in 1988.
B. The TransRort System
1.4         Korea's increasing urbanization and industrialization have created
significant transport demand in the areas around and between the cities and
industrial centers. Passenger traffic tripled between 1962 and 1971 and tripled
again by 1985; freight traffic increased nine-fold and five-fold, respectively,
during the same periods. International trade is served almost exclusively by
air for passengers and by sea for freight. Road facilities and transport means
could be improved in rural areas, and greater emphasis is now being placed on
their development. Better planning and improvement of suburban traffic flows
is also being addressed. The further development of port facilities could be
concentrated in fewer locations with good scope for future development. There
are also opportunities to achieve greater efficiency in railway services and
considerable gains in transport productivity by fully exploiting the
complementarity between modes.
1.5         Substantial changes  in the modal distribution of traffic are
illustrated by traffic statistics for the 1966 to 1987 period. The previously
dominant role of the railways (82% of ton-km in 1966) has been replaced by a
more balanced distribution of traffic among rail, coastal shipping and road for
freight, and between road and rail for passenger transport. During this period,



-2-
for freight traffic, the road and coastal shipping shares of total ton-km
increased from 8% to 48% and from 10% to 26%, respectively, while movements by
rail, although showing growth in absolute terms, fell to 31% of total ton-km.
These changes reflect both the economic advantages of the various modes and the
different growth rates of the industries served, as rail and coastal shipping
became concentrated on long distances and bulk commodities while road transport
handled the short distances and more general cargo.   For passenger traffic,
rapidly expanding personal incomes have generated large increases in personal
travel, mainly by public transport such as express trains and buses, but also
increasingly by private car. About half of all passenger traffic is in urban
areas. High taxation of private cars and gasoline has limited motorization to
a level significantly below that of other countries with income levels
comparable to Korea's bu.t has not deterred rapid growth in road transport.
Between 1966 and 1987, the rail share of total passenger-km fell from 43% to 21%
while the road share increased from 56% to 73%, an average annual increase in
passenger-km of 10%. These proportions are expected to continue with only minor
changes through the end of the present Plan, i.e. 1991.
C. Government Objectives for the Sector
1.6         The Government of Korea's primary sectoral objectives in the past
have been to increase capacity and modernize the transport system in line with
projected traffic growth, to avoid major bottlenecks, and to improve access to
the rural population.   These objectives have been largely achieved, and the
present system is reasonably balanced and traffic is in general allocated
economically among the various modes.   Another objective of past transport
investments has been to pursue broader concerns in Korea's spatial and economic
planning.   For example, considerable efforts have been made to develop new
industrial complexes in coastal areas to take advantage of Korea's natural
potential in harbors and to exploit low-cost coastal shipping while avoiding
excessive congestion on road and rail. Projects are now better designed and
construction quality has improved with the rapid expansion of the construction
industry.
1.7         In the early 1980s,  the Government recognized that while the
nation's transport system was basically in place, transport investment decisions
had become considerably more complex, and although the coordination of
investment plans had been vested in the Ministry of Transportation (MOT) through
its Transport Coordination Bureau, more comprehensive investment planning and
improved coordination among government agencies was required. The need for such
improved planning and coordination was confirmed by a Transport Sector Issues
Survey completed by the Bank in 1983. Subsequently, the Government has taken
action to improve inter-ministerial coordination through MOT in collaboration
with the Economic Planning Board (EPB) and the line ministries concerned, and,
with Bank assistance, has undertaken several studies of various issues
identified by the above-mentioned sector study, including investment planning.
1.8         The Urban Transportation Facilitation Law, enacted in December 1986,
provIdes for MOT, in cooperation with the Ministry of Construction (MOC) and
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA), to oversee the preparation of transport plans
for small and large cities and affected suburban areas throughout the country,



-3-
and for the establishment of central as well as provincial-level transport
investment coordination committees to supervise implementation plans.
1.9         The Government's basic policy focus in the transport sector during
the Sixth Plan (1987-91) is to (a) increase transport efficiency, capacity and
quality; (b) provide transport facilities that are balanced regionally; and (c)
improve transport administration.
1.10        The Government seeks to achieve the above objectives through a more
rational distribution of the means of transport; through efforts to utilize
existing facilities to the maximum degree, optimize new investment and energy
conservation, and increase private sector participation in transport; and
through investments aimed at improving transport in the largest cities and at
extending the network of paved roads to improve the accessibility of medium and
small cities, and rural areas.
D. TransDort Investments
1.11        For more than two decades, Korea's transport system has been
strained by the demands of economic growth, requiring large public investments
in transport infrastructure to keep abreast of demand. Accordingly, during the
period 1967-1977, the Government allocated up to 23% of its total capital budget
expenditures to expand and modernize transport infrastructure. This level of
investment was reduced to about 15% in the Fourth Plan (1977-81) and to about
10% in the Fifth Plan (1982-86) as demands of the economy as well as investment
requirements of other sectors increased. Since major investments in airports,
ports and the Seoul subway system were largely completed during the Fifth Plan
period, the investment allocations for the transport sector during the current
Sixth Plan period (1987-91) have been reduced to about 4% of total public
capital investment. However, the budget allocation for national roads has been
increased three-fold compared with the outlay on roads in the previous Plan
period.  Therefore, while total sector investment under the Sixth Plan is
currently expected to be about W 7 trillion (US$10 billion), roads account for
about 58% of such planned expenditures.
1; 12       Large investments in transport infrastructure have been complemented
by a c^nsiderable effort to improve the efficiency of the transport system
through the establishment and strengthening of institutions to plan, construct,
maintain and operate the facilities and services.  In the public sector,
institutions such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR), the Bureau of Public
Roads (BPR) in the HOC, the Korea Highway Corporation (KHC), and the Korea
Maritime and Port Administration (KHPA) have been established or strengthened,
in many instances with increasing financial and managerial responsibility. In
the private sector, a highly efficient contractor system has evolved for civil
works which reflects both the policy of competitive bidding in the award of
contracts and the large volume of construction that has been carried out in
Korea during the past 20 years.  There are now some 500 firms capable of
handling  a broad range  of public  works.   Furthermore, with  government
encouragement, the major construction firms have successfully expanded their
construction activities overseas.



-4-
E. Bank Involvement in the Transgort Sector
1.13        The Bank's policy dialogue with the Government has been strengthened
through the increasing emphasis on sector and subsector work directly linked to
transport lending in Korea.   This approach was initiated in 1984 with the
Highway Sector Project (Loan 2392-KO) which helped to deepen and broaden the
Bank's involvement in the road subsector by exterding assistance to MOC, MOHA,
HOT and the Ministry of Energy and Resources (HOER). That project provided a
framework for these agencies to improve their planning and coordination,
conserve energy and deregulate land transport.   For railways, the Bank has
traditionally made sector type loans, financing time slices of KNR's investment
plans; the most recent of these, the Seoul/Pusan Corridor Project (Loan 2600-
KO), continues this involvement. A Railway Efficiency Sector Report (No. 6692-
KO dated June 25, 1987) identified a number of areas, including passenger and
freight operations, rolling stock and locomotive maintenance and utilization,
and organizational arrangements, where efficiency gains could be achieved
through properly targeted investments, which the Bank could assist in financing.
For ports, Bank assistance has been directed at the modernization and expansion
of facilities to support Korea's export-led development. Containerization was
introduced at Pusan under two completed port projects (Loans 917-KO and 1401-
KO) and is being developed further under an ongoing project Pusan Port III (Loan
2726-KO), which presented another opportunity for the Bank to support government
policy measures aimed at increasing the efficiency of container handling and
further strengthening KMPA's progress in institution building, primarily to
improve the management and financing of the port subsector.
1.14        Besides these subsector operations, the Bank has been assisting the
Government in developing multimodal projects. The first was the Coal and Cement
Distribution Project (Loan 2267-KO) approved in 1983, involving railways, ports
and inland terminals.  The Bank also prepared a Kyonggi Region multimodal
transport study which identified ways to meet the very high transport demand in
the suburban areas of Seoul where a dense network of facilities is needed. The
study mainly recommended additions to the suburban expressway network (a ring
road around Seoul) and rail system, and the widening of some major arterials in
the Seoul metropolitan area. The ongo'.ig Kyonggi Regional Transport Project
(Loan 2905-KO) is addressing these needs. Another multimodal transport study
carried out from 1983 to 1985 examined the Seoul-Pusan transport corridor and
the feasibility of a high speed rail line between the two cities. This study
resulted in the Bank-financed Seoul-Busan Corridor Project (Loan 2600-KO) which
represents a first step in increasing capacity. Subsequent steps might include
a high-speed train that would run on a separate, dedicated track for which KNR
is now undertaking preliminary design work and further road improvements to
expand access in the corridors; a second Seoul-Taejon expressway has also been
completed.



-5-
2. THE ROAD SECTOR
A. Thg Network
2.1         Large public expenditures for roads, assisted by external financing,
have led to considerable improvement in the extent and condition of the road
network. As shown in Annex l,Part A, the public road network totals about 54,700
km comprising 1,540 km of expressways, 12,252 km of national roads (in addition
to the expressways), 10,300 km of provincial roads, 12,900 km of county roads,
17,700 km of urban streets. In addition there about 52,400 km of village access
roads.  The national expressways are toll roads.  These figures represent a
doubling of the road network from about 27,000 km in 1962.  Road density at 0.56
km/km2 is generally sufficient to serve transport needs, particularly as about
70% of the total land area is mountainous, but much of the network of provincial
and county roads still needs improvement. Despite heavy investments in road
improvements since 1967, about 82% of national roads, 41% of provincial roads,
and 21% of county roads were paved as of 1987 and a high level of investment
will continue to be required to ensure an adequate level of service for growing
traffic volumes and maintenance of existing assets.   However,  the overall
percentage of paved roads has increased from about 5% in 1962 to 57% in 1987.
During the same period, roads in rural areas, comprising expressways and
national, provincial and county roads, have increased from 16,000 km with 6%
paved to almost 37,000 km with about 47% paved.
2.2         Unpaved roads, including some national roads, continue to have poor
gravel or earth surfaces,  despite some recent improvements.   The physical
condition of most unpaved roads is such that driving speeds are very low,
driving conditions are unsafe and transport costs are high. On some of the more
heavily travelled sections of the paved road network, where traffic volumes have
increased rapidly, congestion is becoming a problem and road capacity increases
are much needed. For example, on the national road network 90% of the roads
carry more than 500 vehicles per day (vpd) while 20% carry more than 5,000 vpd.
Only 2% of the roads carry less than 200 vpd. Traffic on national roads is
estimated to have increased at an annual rate of about 12% over the last decade.
Of the 17,700 km of urban roads, about 13,000 km (73%) were paved by 1987.
Investments in urban roads in the 57 cities and 5 special cities are being
coordinated under the Urban Transport Facilitation Law (para. 1.8). The status
of maintenance on national roads is discussed in paragraph 2.39.
B. Road Treinsport
Traffic
2.3         Road transport has grown rapidly over the last 15 years, not only
in absolute terms but also in relation to other modes, particularly railways.
Road freight traffic in ton-km grew twice as fast as all freight traffic,
averaging 45% p.a. in 1967-71, 13% p.a. in 1972-76 and 15% p.a. in 1977-81. The
share of freight traffic by road is expected to continue increasing in the long
term, although probably more gradually. Passenger traffic on highways also grew
rapidly, at 15% p.a. in passenger-km in 1967-71, 14.1% in 1972-76 and 9.1% in
1977-81.  In 1981 it amounted to nearly three-quarters of the total with the



-6-
remainder going by rail, a complete reversal of the situation in 1961. Traffic
on national roads has been increasing at an average annual rate of 18% during
the past five years.
Motor Vehicle Fleet
2.4         While the growth of road traffic has been rapid with increasing
incomes, government policy has been to regulate and restrain growth.   As a
result, the motor vehicle fleet in Korea is still very small compared to other
countries at similar levels of per capita income,due mainly to high levels of
taxation on private automobiles.   Korea had 27 motor vehicles per 1,000
population in 1987 compared with 35 for Thailand (1985), 107 for Malaysia (1985)
and 60 for Fiji (1984). The proportion of trucks is high, however. A total of
2.5 million vehicles were registered in Korea in 1987, of which about 1.6
million represent road vehicles with four or more wheels, including 844,000 cars
and taxis, 200,000 buses and 567,000 trucks; the remaining 924,000 vehicles are
motorcycles. Vehicle registrations have increased at annual rates of 14% and
21%, for motorcycles and other vehicles, respectively.   In the Sixth Plan
period, the vehicle fleet, excluding motorcycles, is expected to increase to 3.2
million units by 1991, comprising 1.8 million cars, 0.4 million buses and about
1 million trucks, representing an annual average growth rate of 19%. This rapid
vehicle fleet growtr in the recent past has increasingly burdened the public
road system, requiring more road improvement programs.   In addition, road
congestion is becoming common, selective capacity increases are warranted and
road safety has increasingly become a national problem. These phenomena will
be exacerbated by the expected vehicle fleet growth during the current Plan
period.
Transport Industry and Regulation
2.5         In its efforts to ensure that appropriate development priorities are
reflected in the allocation of scarce transport resources, the Government has
regulated the sector in the past with a restrictive licensing system and
administered pricing for all transport activities, but sector policies are
changing. Partly as a result of Bank-supported studies (paras. 2.44, 2.45 -
2.46), many of the regulations constraining the efficiency of the trucking
industry, e.g., minimum fleet size and restrictive licensing, have been removed.
The MOT is now pursuing an active policy to deregulate the road transport
industry. The main recommendations of the two studies with specific regard to
the commercial road fleet include measures to reduce minimum fleet size required
to qualify for a license; define brokerage functions; abolish area licensing;
encourage the use of more efficient trucking equipment; simplify contractual
arrangements; establish truck terminals in major areas and a freight information
system for commercial truckers.   MOT is in the process of reviewing and
implementing  the various study recommendations.    The Government  is also
reviewing existing road user charges to ensure that heavy vehicles pay their
share of costs and generate sufficient revenues.
C. Institutigps
2.6         The  Economic  Planning  Board  (EPB)  approves  all  transport
infrastructure investments proposed by the line ministries, reviews all



-7-
government budgets annually and determines priorities, and is concerned with
transport pricing such as setting of bus, taxi and subway fares and expressway
tolls. EPB has assigned responsibility for detailed transport project appraisal
to its Industrial Policy Coordination Bureau, which annually reviews all major
transport investment projects for economic feasibility and consistency with the
development plan. In addition, a further review is undertaken through an Inter-
Agancy Coordinating Committee chaired by EPB.   Finally,  the Budget Bureau
routinely coordinates investment plans of the various agencies.
2.7         The Ministry of Construction (HOC) is concerned with all aspects of
national physical planning and construction activities in the public sector.
It is also exclusively responsible for all public roads through its Bureau of
Public Roads, for the design, construction and maintenance of expressways
(through the Korea Highway Corporation), and for local roads (through local
authorities) and sets standards for urban roads and streets.   MOC is also
responsible for development of industrial ports.
2.8         The Ministry of Transportation (MOT) has overall responsibility for
the planning, development and operations by KNR for railways, by the Korea
Maritime and Port Administration (KMPA) for ports (except industrial and fishing
ports which are under MOC and the Ministry of Agriculture, respectively), by the
Civil Aviation Bureau for aviation and by the Waterways Bureau for inland
waterways. HOT is also responsible for regulation of all transport modes.
2.9         The Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) has exercised budgetary control
over provincial and county roads through the local authorities.   The Local
Administration Bureau of MOHA monitors provincial and county roads programs
which are implemented by the respective local authorities and also assists
cities and counties to develop their road networks through budgetary provision.
D. Highway Planning and Financing
Planning
2.10        Transport planning, including planning for roads, is mostly done in
the context of five-year national development planning exercises; the current
Sixth Plan covers the 1987-91 period. Planning of the national road system,
including expressways, has always been done by the Planning Division of the
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) in MOC. BPR's planning capacity was strengthened
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1203-KO) through provision of consultant
assistance.    MOHA provided budgetary funds  for other roads  through  the
provincial, county and city governments. However, it was found that MOHA had
little capacity for planning and developing the provincial and county road
system, which is largely uncoordinated and implemented on an ad hoc basis
resulting in some uneconomic and non-complementary investments.   Under the
Provincial and County Roads Project (Loan 2228-KO), MOHA's capacity was built
up by using investment screening and selection methodologies developed under the
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO) and by training selected MOHA staff in
road development planning and transport economics.
2.11        In order  to ensure  that future development  of the national,
provincial and county roads proceeds on a coordinated basis, the road investment



-8-
plans of MOC, Korea Highway Corporation (KHC) and MOHA were reviewed by a study
under the Provincial and County Roads Project, under the overall management of
BPR's Planning Division. Existing and projected traffic flows were analyzed to
determine the inter-relationships among the systems, with the objective of
reducing the possibility of redundancy and contributing to greater efficiency
of  road  investment.    An  interagency  committee  of  MOHA,  KHC  and  EPB
representatives under overall MOC management directed the study and contributed
to institutionalizing balanced road development and bringing consistency to the
road planning done by the various agencies. As a result, a system of technical
criteria and institutional procedures were defined for future application.
2.12        The Government recognized that although these initiatives had met
with some success, road investments needed to be coordinated closely among the
concerned agencies and with proposed investments in other modes. Accordingly,
the Government decided under the Highway Sector Project to establish a system
identified in the above-mentioned study under which all investments in the
highway sector are planned on an integrated and sound economic basis, and also,
funds appropriated for each road agency support closely the priorities indicated
in an integrated highway investment plan. Such a Highway Network Master Plan
(HNMP) was prepared in 1986 as the basis for the transport sector plan which was
included in the Sixth Development Plan. The HNMP prioritized investments for
all types of roads to the year 2001, and together with the Kyonggi Regional
Study (para. 1.14), provided a basis for the selection of road links to be
constructed or approved under the Sixth Plan.
2.13        The Government also established a system for the annual review of
investment proposals and related budget plans for all expressway, national,
provincial and county road construction or improvement - whether financed
directly from the budget (as for BPR) or otherwise (in the case of KHC and,
partly, MOHA) - so that they reflect the integrated Highway Network Master Plan
and established economic priorities. Now, all investments in the road sector
are planned on an integrated basis; evaluation criteria are applied to all
highway investment proposals; and funds appropriated for each road agency
closely support the priorities stated in the integrated road investment plan and
represent a better balance between the economically justified needs of each
agency and the road user charges which are allocated to them.  Accordingly,
since 1987 the coordination of road investments has been centralized in BPR
within MOC to ensure that project timing and scope are consistent, regardless
of which agency is implementing them. BPR has also been vested with authority
to review plans and specific projects for the improvement of roads proposed by
the provinces and counties, and, if they are feasible and consistent with plan
requirements, to authorize the release of matching national counterpart funds
for their implementation.   The HNMP will be subject to periodic review and
updating, and consequential revisions will be made to the expressway network
plans and investment programs.
2.14        The Government also undertook a staff training program in planning
and economic evaluation of transportation investments under the Highway Sector
Project to be better able to establish systems and procedures for comparing
investment alternatives among transport modes, and to ensure their better
coordination.



-9-
Financing
2.15.       Local funding for the road program comes from various public
sources. For the national roads, the general budget is the sole source of funds
for development and maintenance; user charges on vehicle purchase and operation,
collected through fees and taxes, accrue to the general budget. By contrast,
the Korea Highway Corporation (KHC), a government-'nvested enterprise under MOC,
uses its toll revenues to finance construction, maintenance and operating costs
of toll expressways. The level of tolls is subject to review and approval by
EPB.
2.16        The local governments also have a separate financing system; their
own revenues are complemented by a block grant of 13.27% of natioral revenues
allocated annually to MOHA by EPB.  For 1987, this allocation was W 1,333.9
billion compared to W 719.0 billion in 1982.  Since 1986, a subsidy is also
allocated to MOC for provincial and county road construction or improvement in
the form of 40%-60% of project costs, upon confirmation by BPR of project
priority, timing and appropriateness. EPB, through its Budget Bureau, exercises
budgetary control over transport investments proposed by each ministry and has
the authority to cut or defer projects if required.
2.17        Budget allocations to MOC for total expenditures on the road program
average about 2% of total domestic revenues. The total capital and recurrent
expenditures estimated for the Sixth Plan period (1987-91) for national,
provincial, county and city roads and expressed in 1986 prices amount to W 3,675
billion or about US$5.3 billion and are 48% higher than the W 1,770 billion
(US$2.5 billion) spent in 1982-86.   The Sixth Plan road investment program
appears very reasonable in view of annual forecast traffic increases of 5.7% and
6.8% in freight ton-km and passenger-km, respectively.   Such increases in
investment imply significant productivity gains in road transport, and will add
to the demand for road facilities.
2.18        The proposed road expenditures in the Sixth Plan reflect a policy
aiming at more balanced investments between the national roads, for which about
50% of total road expenditures has been earmarked, and the develc1ment of the
provincial, county, city and special city road networks. This shift occurred
during the Fifth Plan period (1982-86). Before 1982, more than 70% of the total
road expenditure was spent on national roads including expressways. The share
for maintenance of national roads has been increased to 16% of expenditures on
these roads, an increase from the 15%, 11% and 6% spent respectively during the
Fifth, Fourth and Third Plan periods. In the past, maintenance expenditures by
KHC for its highway network have been high but local authorities' allocations
for the provincial and county network have been inadequate. The coordination
of expenditures levels with the actual needs of the various road networks for
greater efficiency of road investment and balanced road development has been
assisted by previous Bank-financed projects.
2.19        Total road user charges are in line with road expenditures.   In
1985, revenues of W 862 billion covered about 70% of total expenditures of W
1,225 billio,,. While this is considered satisfactory, it is expected to improve
even further in the near future considering the expected rapid expansion of the
vehicle fleet.   However,  it was found that the pricing system  involved



-10-
considerable cross subsidy among different users with heavy vehicles not paying
their share of costs. Road user charges were studied under the Highway Sector
Project. The study recommended the gradual adjustment of road user charges from
a system that effectively subsidized some larger vehicles towards a more neutral
taxation system, mainly through increasing diesel fuel taxes and increasing
annual vehicle taxes on trucks and buses so that the Government can come closer
to recovering an appropriate portion of the costs incurred in construction and
maintenance from the various users of the road network. The recommendations of
this study, which involve some complex fiscal, regulatory and administrative
relationships, are currently under Government review.
2.20        A proposed law to be considered for enactment by the National
Assembly and to become effective in 1989 (initially through 1994) will establish
a new financing system through a Special Account for highways. Funds in the
Special Account would be available for improvements, including widening, paving
and maintenance of national, provincial, county and major city roads. MXC will
manage and operate the Special Account which is initially projected to total W
610 billion (US$871 million), sufficient to cover 60% of expendituren for the
above needs. The Special Account will be funded from several sources including
budget transfers from general revenue; user charges, including special excise
taxes on gasoline, diesel and passenger cars; loans from the private sector and
external sources; toll revenues; and bond issues.
E. Highway Sector DeveloDment Plan (1987-91)
Obectives
2.21        In the context of the Sixth Plan development objectives in the
transportation sector (paras 1.11-1.12), priorities in the highway sector plan
are to: (a) expand and widen expressways; (b) continue to pave and better
maintain national, provincial and county roads; (c) increase and modernize the
vehicle fleet while further developing both vehicle and road safety programs;
(d) improve the efficiency of the road transport industry through energy
conservation by providing more freight terminal and servicing facilities; and
(e) expand the road network to improve accessibility to remote farm and fishing
villages, creating the potential for rural industrialization.
ScoRe and Content
2.22.       It is anticipated that projected growth rate for the GNP (estimated
to average about 7% annually) will generate a similar increase in transport
demand.  Accordingly, highway passenger transport is estimated to grow from
about 80 to 110 billion passenger-km during the Sixth Plan period, with an
average trip distance of 7.3 km. Freight transport is expected to grow at a
somewhat slower pace from about 8 to 10 billion ton-km during the same period,
with an average haul of over 47.5 km.  While the estimated growth rate of
freight transport is lower than under the previous Plan period, it is consistent
with projected economic growth, and the expected increases in passenger
transport demand are ensured by the continuing improvements in the road and
expressway network.   New expressways have been completed between Taegu and
Kwangju as well as between Seoul and Taejon. In addition, the rapid increase
in motorization, with over 100,000 new vehicles annually in the Seoul



-11-
metropolitan area alone, will add to passenger-km growth and dramatic increases
in the demand for better road facilities.
Costs
2.23        Overall investment funds for the highway sector allocated in the
government budget for the Sixth Plan period amount to W 3,675 billion (US$5.3
billion), which includes funds for road maintenance but excludes debt servicing.
This is nearly 60% of overall transport sector investment during the same
period, compared to 17.4% during the previous Fifth Plan, and signifies the
prominent role of highways among other transport modes. Budgeted funds will
meet the cost of constructing 300 km and widening 240 km of expressways, paving
1,900 km and widening 900 km of national roads, and paving 3,900 km of
provincial and county roads. The construction and improvement of the latter
roads will be financed by W 528 billion from local government sources.   In
comparison, during the Fifth Plan period the Government constructed 176 km of
expressways, paved 2,656 km of national roads and 2,715 km of provincial roads,
partly financed by Bank loans 2228-KO and 2392-KO.
2.24        The  sector plan  includes  provision  for  the  construction  and
improvement of 2,470 km of city roads, estimated to cost about W 1,500 billion
overall during the current Plan period, funded mainly from city budgets. The
investments profile for the highway sector during the Sixth Plan appears well
planned and reasonable and will provide the funds necessary for the projected
32% and 38% increases in road freight ton-km and passenger-km, respectively.
The annual budget for the maintenance of national roads amounting to W 70
billion (US$100 million) has been increasing at about 15% annually over the last
decade and reflects the high priority assigned by the Government to maintaining
the road network at an acceptable level. The role of the proposed project in
systematizing and making maintenance more cost-effective will assist in the
better achievement of these efforts.
Evaluation
2.25        The highway sector plan is based on analyses emerging from two
recent transport investment studies: the Highway Network Master Plan and the
Bank-financed Kyonggi Region Multimodal Transport Study. The thrust of these
studies -- to achieve integrated and coordinated planning as well as economic
efficiency -- is well conceived and incorporated in the sector plan. While the
sector plan objectives are ambitious and the content substantial, the
responsible government agencies, particularly BPR in MOC, are qualified,
experienced and able to implement the plan based on previous plan and project
performance.
Need for Investment
2.26        The Government's road improvement program is designed to provide
better road access between cities, townships and villages and is supported by
feasibility studies to establish the economic justification of selected road
sections. These national road links have been identified by the Highway Network
Master Plan study to have the highest priority in those areas of the country



-12-
that are relatively less developed and are, therefore, the focus of the
Government's regional development plans.
2.27        The  existing  roads  to  be  improved  have  variable  geometric
characteristics that depend largely on the local topography. Host such road
sections have a poorly paved or gravel surface, are generally not wider than 3-
5 m, and are unsuitable for the commercial and other heavy traffic expected as
the rural economy begins to attract industrial investment. These road sections
are also characterized by a lack of shoulders, poor road drainage and
intermittently substandard alignments. Given the difficult, hilly and complex
topography to be typically traversed in Korea, moat roads follow alignments that
generally provide both the best option and the only means of access to the areas
which they serve. Accordingly, these roads not only serve the function of
arterials through their corridors but also collectors for interconnecting
provincial and county roads. With increasing urbanization, improving road
access to cities and townships through urban arterials is assuming greater
importance.
2.28        Given the presently poor road surface and structural condition, the
road links to be improved under the sector plan cannot be adequately responsive
to the increasing demands of an industrializing and economically progressive
economy. In addition, good road access is vital for the creation of off-farm
employment opportunities which is a major goal in the Sixth Plan program for
the speedy alleviation of regional disparities and depressed rural areas.
2.29        Narrow road widths and rough gravel surfaces slow down vehicles t
unreasonably slow speeds, while the excessive wear and tear on vehicles and
tires as well as heavy fuel consumption result in very high vehicle operating
and transport costs. The extent of justifiable investment on the improvement
of specific road sections will be a function of economic activity. For many of
the two-lane roads, traffic congestion, resulting low vehicle speeds and high
operating costs will demand that these roads be either paved or widened to four-
lane paved roads depending on the circumstances. The proposed project will
address these investment needs.
F. Design and Construction
2.30        HOC, through BPR, is responsible for design and construction of
national roads including new expressways and those provincial roads to be
constructed using HOC or external financing. Highway design is based on
standards which are adequate for various traffic volumes, types of national
highways and topography in Korea (Annex 1 ,Part C). Consultants are employed for
the design of major roads works, with the assistance of seconded BPR staff under
a study group system. MOHA has only recently become involved in major road
design work in connection with the county road program and employs consultants
for design under the same system of study groups used by HOC. Both HOC and HOHA
employ mainly domestic consultants for supervision of construction. Korea has
a strong well-developed engineering consulting industry, with some 30 firms
which are fully competent in all aspects of engineering design but so far have
developed only a limited capacity in areas of transport economics and traffic
engineering. The proposed project would support the development of local



-13-
specialized expertise in these and other areas through the provision of foreign
consultants for technology transfer as well as through selected formal training.
2.31        Contracts are awarded through competitive bidding with international
competitive bidding (IGB) used for contracts financed by external sources and
for specialized construction work. This policy, combined with the large volume
of construction works in Korea during the past 15 years, has resulted in the
development of a large, efficient and experienced contracting industry capable
of carrying out construction of high quality and high cost engineering projects.
Because of the strong domestic contracting industry, foreign contractors have
not been successful in obtaining work in Korea.
G. Road Safety
2.32        Available data show that Korea has a high road accident rate.
According to police statistics, approximately 175,660 traffic accidents occurred
on Korean roads in 1987 in which 7,026 persons died and 222,701 persons were
injured or crippled. Deaths and injuries resulting from road accidents have
been increasing at an annual rate of about 13% during the 1980s.   The 1987
Korean road accident fatality rate (when standardized to permit international
comparison) of 48 deaths per 10,000 vehicles was very high for a country at
Korea's stage of economic and industrial development. Although a developed
country in many respects, Korea has a fatality rate which is mors typical of a
much poorer country.  Equivalent European, North American and Japanese rates
typically range between 2 to 4 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles. Korea's current
rate is therefore around 20 times as high as comparator countries.
2.33        Road safety responsibilities in Korea are currently split among
three main ministries: transport policy, licensing, and vehicle testing under
MOT; traffic police, regulation and safety publicity under MOHA; road planning,
design, construction and maintenance under HOC. The actual implementation of
road traffic safety regulations is the responsibility of the Traffic Police, MOT
and MOHA.    The Traffic Police,  under MOHA,  enforce  some  safety-related
regulations such as speed limits, etc. and collect, analyze and publish traffic
accident statistics.
2.34        In  addition,  a  Transportation  Safety  Promotion  Authority,
established in 1979 under the general control of MOT, is responsible for the
inspection of motor vehicles, railroad cars, ships, aircraft, rails and cables,
from which activity some 90% of its revenues accrue. A Road Traffic Safety
Association (RTSA), which was attached to the Traffic Police prior to 1980, was
reconstituted under the Road Traffic Law as a civilian nonprofit corporation,
reporting to MOHA.   Its functions are to analyze traffic accident data, do
research and studies on road safety, train and educate drivers, and prepare and
organize propaganda related to road safety.   The Association has  eleven
provincial branch offices and one branch each in Seoul and Busan. Its revenue
comes mainly from a small portion of driver licensing fees and very small
percentage of tire and insurance company profits. While the Association is in
theory autonomous, the President is appointed by HOHA, its use of funds must be
approved by MOHA and its staff has, for historical reasons, close links with the
National Police.



-14-
2.35        The need to better coordinate traffic safety measures and tackle the
road accident problem has been recognized in Korea for a number of years. The
Traffic Safety Law of December 1979 established a potentially powerful structure
for those activities by providing for a traffic safety policy committee chaired
by the Prime Minister which was to direct an executive committee chaired by the
Minster of Transport. Unfortunately, little priority was given to this work,
and although some improvement occurred as a result of the law, most of the key
ministries with road safety-related responsibilities carried on largely as
before.   In 1983, as part oi a Bank-financed Provincial and County Roads
Project, a comprehensive study of road safety was commissioned.   The final
report, produced in 1984, identified deficiencies in the way in which road
safety issues were being handled and made wide ranging recommendations on
improvements and activities necessary for the Government to tackle the problem
more effectively.
2.36        The growing realization of the scale of the problem and the annual
economic losses being sustained eventually convinced the Government to take
further measures. As a consequence, the structure of the traffic safety policy
committee has recently been revitalized and strengthened and there now seems to
be a greatly increased political commitment to act on road safety matters. In
early 1987, a Presidential directive established a joint policy group under the
Prime Minister's Office (PMO) to develop and implement a comprehensive traffic
safety improvement program.   In March 1987,  12 ministries were asked to
establish safety policies and to prepare road safety improvement plans for areas
under  their jurisdiction.    These were  consolidated by  the  PMO  into  a
comprehensive national road safety plan which the Prime Minister and the policy
committee  reviewed  in August  1987.    The ministries  and  other  relevant
organizations are now implementing or preparing a variety of road safety
improvements included in the National Road Safety Improvement Plan, the
implementation with coordination provided by the PMO.   A comprehensive and
determined national effort is therefore now being made.
2.37        Despite   these   encouraging   developments,   some   significant
institutional and other problems still remain which are inhibiting successful
implementation of road safety measures on the national road network in Korea.
Some of these issues are already being addressed. A project being financed by
the Asian Development Bank, for example, is training MOC road safety staff. The
proposed Bank project contributes toward the resolution of both the
institutional and technical problems through support for a foreign road safety
expert who has been engaged by the Government to develop safety-conscious
designs  for  the project,  a hazardous  location  remedial  program and  the
modification and codification of better safety standards and practices, first
for MOC roads, and subsequently for all roads in Korea. These are discussed in
more depth in Annex 2.
H. Maintenance
2.38        Responsibility for mainzaining the road network is divided among
three levels of government agencies: KHC for expressways; MOC for the national
road network and local authorities for provincial and county roads. KHC has an
effective maintenance organization, well-trained experienced staff, a large



-15-
number of maintenance equipment units and adequate funding from tolls. As a
result, the expressway network is being maintained to a high standard.
2.39        MOC's road maintenance organization was established in 1972 and
strengthened under previous Bank-financed highway projects through the provision
of technical assistance and road maintenance equpment.  These National Road
Maintenance Corporations (NRMCO) in each province are well established, fully
staffed and are capable of maintaining the national road network to an adequate
standard. However, the planning, programming and budgeting of road maintenance
programs are weak and inadequate in view of the magnitude of the network and the
growing cost of maintenance. Current practice is to base the annual maintenance
work only on visual inspections of existing pavement conditions without the
advantages of the modern testing equipment or the sophisticated data analysis
recommended in a recent consultant's study discussed below. Therefore, emphasis
has been given to routine maintenance and overlays while the need for more
varied solutions including pavement strengthening has been neglected. (Annex 3,
Part A) As a result, existing pavements of many national roads are inadequate
to resist deterioration and cracking under the especially high volume of heavy
vehicles.   To correct this situation MOC undertook the Highway Maintenance
Management Study aimed at: (a) developing a comprehensive road maintenance
management system to ensure a systematic approach to decision making within a
consistent framework of routine and periodic maintenance including overlay and
strengthening needs, and resource requirements on a continuing basis; and (b)
establishing a balanced multi-annual improvement and resource need program for
9,000 km of paved national roads.
2.40        The Study was completed by local and foreign consultants in December
1987 and financed under the Highway Sector Project (Loan 2392-KO). As part of
the study, which included a detailed survey of about 1,100 km of national roads,
a Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS) for Korea was designed. The study
recommended the introduction of the RMMS which would permit the condition of the
entire network to be rated on the basis of mechanically collected data analyzed
with the latest techniques for such purposes. In addition to this sophisticated
inventory of the road network, the RMMS would be capable of predicting the need
for maintenance in yet visually unidentifiable sections based upon models of
pavement deterioration and performance. The heart of the RMMS, a computerized
road data bank, would also be used to set maintenance priorities according to
economic criteria and to suggest optimal multi-year expenditure programs. MOC
accepted the consultant's proposals and decided to implement the newly designed
RMMS.  Based on study findings and RMMS procedures, road priorities and the
design standards have been established and a road maintenance program has been
developed which will gradually be extended to the entire network over a three
year period. This will necessitate a detailed survey of the remaining 7,057 km
of national roads.
2.41        Maintenance of provincial and county roads by the local governments
has suffered from a lack of funds, trained staff and proper planning.   To
address these problems, the Government prepared a five-year (1983-87)
maintenance program for provincial and county road networks, which was
implemented under the Provincial and County Roads Project (Loan 2228-KO).
Although the condition of provincial and county roads has improved, significant



-16-
additional benefits could be derived from the adoption of a more systematic
approach to planning, programming and monitoring of road maintenance operations.
I. Energy Conservat.iol
2.42        Since virtually all fuel must be imported, energy conservation has
long been a major thrust of policy in Korea.   Efficient energy use in road
transport involves, inter alia, equipment characteristics, fuel pricing,
regulation and transport industry efficiency. Studies of trucking regulation
and freight transport improvement carried out under the Highway Sector Project
and other Bank loans addressed issues of transport energy efficiency and the
impact of regulations, for example, on full loads, empty back-hauls and the size
and use of equipment.
2.43        Since 1984, MOER has been effectively coordinating, managing and
monitoring actions for energy use conservation in the transport sector. These
initiatives have resulted in energy conservation policies; the promotion of more
energy efficient buses and trucks for the transport industry; energy audits by
the Korea Energy Management Corporation of transport companies; conservation
programs; and deregulation of the trucking industry, including the abolition of
area licensing to enhance truck loads and increase efficiency. MOER has also
established training programs in the public sector for greater energy efficiency
in transport and works closely with vehicle manufacturers to find ways to
improve vehicle efficiency through technology improvements.
J. Previous Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector
2.44        The Bank has financed seven road projects with loans totalling
US$700 million.   Five of the projects have been completed,  all with very
satisfactory results.  The First to the Fourth Highway Project (Loans 769-KO,
956-KO, 1203-KO and 1640-KO) were implemented well; in almost all cases, the re-
estimated economic rates of return exceeded appraisal estimates, mainly because
of greater than expected traffic growth. The PPAR Nos. for the above four loans
are No. 3045 for the first two loans, No. 5024 for Loan 1203-KO and for Loan
1640-KO, the Project Completion Report No. is 5450. The Provincial and County
Roads Project (Loan 2228-KO) closed in December 1988; it focussed on rural road
improvement schemes, all of which have been successfully carried out.   The
Highway Sector Project (Loan 2392-KO) is also virtually complete, with more than
90% of the original loan amount disbursed; it is expected to close in June 1989.
(para. 1.13) The Kyonggi Regional Transport project (Loan 2905-KO) was signed
in 1988; its implementation is proceeding on schedule.
2.45        The first four projects have had major impact in assisting the
Government with the improvement and expansion of the national and provincial
road networks and with institution building in MOC. Loan 2228-KO assisted MOHA
and local authorities in the improvement of about 1,500 km of provincial and
county roads, and in setting up and providing equipment for organizations at
central, provincial and country administrative levels to implement a maintenance
program. In addition, the above projects included numerous studies and policy
actions which have had a profound effect on Korea's highway infrastructure and
road transport industry. Most recently, primarily in the context of the Highway
Sector Project, a detailed Action Plan was implemented which examined (a)



-17-
highway investment planning, (b) highway maintenance management; (c) road user
charges, (d) trucking industry regulations, (e) freight transport improvements,
(f) energy use in the road transport industry, and (g) highway safety.
2.46        Partly as a re.sult of these studies, the Government has redefined
responsibilities and procedures in highway planning, maintenance and finance.
As described earlier in this chapter, regulations of the road transport industry
have been and are being eased, with a general trend away from restrictive
licensing of vehicles and companies, toward simple registration. With regard
to highway safety, a national safety plan was established (para. 2.35) which is
now under implementation. To sum up, the Government, with Bank assistance, has
made substantial progress this decade in improving the efficiency of the highway
and trucking sector.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives and Rationale
Proiect Objectives
3.1         The proposed project would complete some initiatives begun under
previous Bank-assisted projects and would help to increase transport capacity
during the Sixth Plan period (1987-91) by supporting three principal road-
related Government objectives: (a) enhancing transport efficiency by upgrading
the surface and alignment of existing roads and by improving road maintenance
and operations; (b) expanding traffic capacity by widening roads in corridors
with high transport demand; and (c) increasing traffic safety through a number
of  measures  including  safety-conscious  design  of  project  facilities,
modification of design standards and practices where appropriate and physical
improvement of known hazardous road locations.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2         Bank lending to Korea has been scaled down considerably but is being
continued at a modest level consistent with the country's still large external
debt, and the vulnerability of its economy to world market conditions,
especially in an increasingly protectionist trade environment and in light of
growing fiscal pressures arising from won appreciation, expanding budgetary
outlays for accelerated social sector programs, higher wages and increasing
production costs. The Government is not taking the current external financial
surpluses and Korea's standing in overseas markets for granted.
3.3         Therefore,  in the context of a prudent borrowing program,  the
Government has assigned high priority to continue Bank assistance for road
development. Improved transportation infrastructure is important to advance the
Government's Sixth Plan policies aimed at the integrated development of small
cicies and rural areas and reduced regional disparities. The Bank has supported
these objectives through a series of projects in the sector (7 projects with
financing of over US$700 million in the FY71-88 period). The road network
remains a high priority, with significant benefits to be derived from many roads
that are still unpaved or require capacity expansion. The proposed project is



-18-
also a continuation of the Bank's previous efforts in the road subsector and
builds on specific program initiatives begun earlier, including the improvement
of road maintenance and road safety. Both road safety and maintenance systems
are areas where Ksorea's knowledge and experience lag behind the general level
of development and where external expertise can be inexpensively and
successfully applied to Korean conditions. The serious road safety situation
will be measurably improved by the safety conscious designs being employed under
the proposed project, the first accident-statistics based safety improvement
program for national roads and by the codification and dissemination of improved
practices  and  standards  to be  prepared  as  a road  safety manual.    The
introduction of a new road maintenance system under the project is expected to
increase both the effectiveness and efficiency of maintenance activities.
B. Project DescriRtion
3.4         The project would have four components:
'R)   paving, upgrading and widening of about 270 km of the national road
system;
(b)   establishment of a new road maintenance management system including
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of about 700 km of paved
national roads;
(c)   implementation of selected aspects of the national road safety
program including safety-conscious road design, a hazardous location
improvement program and preparation of road safety guidelines; and
(d)   the provision of equipment, consultants' services, and training for
road sector development.
Upgrading and Widening of Existing Roads
3.5         In 1987, on the basis of existing data and knowledge MOC identified
47 high priority road sections totalling about 855 km as candidates for
improvement during the remaining years of the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan
(to  1991).    Feasibility  studies  including  preliminary  engineering  were
undertaken which indicated that about 520 km of these roads had a graveled
surface with substandard horizontal and vertical alignments, structures and
drainage causing high vehicle operating costs and flooding in low-lying areas.
The remaining 335 km of two-lane roads had adequate design standards but were
congested with heavy traffic volumes ranging from 4,500 annual average daily
traffic (AADT) in rural areas and 35,000 AADT in suburban areas, making normal
traffic flow impossible. To correct this situation the Government included all
these roads in its improvement program. The project would assist the Government
in implementing this program by financing the upgrading and widening of the
highest priority sections, determined by economic rate of return calculations,
totalling about 270 kms of which about 112 kms would be upgraded and the
remainder widened.



-19-
Road Maintenance
3.6         The Government is preparing to implement the Road Maintenance
Management System (RMMS) recently designed by consultants to assist the
Government in managing road maintenance on national roads (para. 2.40). This
system of identifying, analyzing, prioritizing, budgeting and executing road
maintenance operations would be gradually introduced over a four-year period
(1988-91) and the present system would be phased out over the same period.
Since the computerized road data bank, which is at the core of the RMMS,
requires information collected by the new testing and measuring equipment, the
timetable for full conversion to the new system depends upon completion of the
road inventory, surveys and establishment of a data bank for the entire national
road network.   Introduction of the new system is expected to result in more
efficient and effective road maintenance as well as more economical use of
existing resources. These efforts would be supported under the project through
the provision of road maintenance, survey, laboratory and other equipment and
assistance in the financing of approximately 700 kms of the most urgent periodic
road maintenance operations, including strengthening, which would be carried out
by contractors.
Road Safety
3.7         The proposed project would promote road safety in three ways. First,
a road safety expert with international experience was employed to advise the
project feasibility study team on the preparation and design of project road
sections. Present MOC highway design standards were also critically reviewed and
interim highway and traffic design standards based on safety-conscious design
principles were prepared as guidelines for engineering consultants to use during
detailed design. The safety expert has also been retained to review the actual
detailed designs to assure that modified, safer designs are applied to all civil
works undertaken under the project. Second, to build upon this initial effort
to improve designs, the project would also include the preparation of road
safety guidelines for Korea. The first step toward such guidelines would be the
preparation of an MOC road safety handbook which would not only contain new
advice and guidance on safety-conscious design and operation of road systems for
MOC but would also incorporate, in a single source, related road safety
practices from existing manuals of the police and others. The second step would
be to review and revise the relevant laws and regulations which determine both
practice and jurisdiction. Once institutional responsibilities have been
clarified and possibly rationalized, the third step would be the preparation of
a comprehensive road safety manual for all users in Korea as a Joint exercise
of the police and other parties. It is expected that the manual will be used by
all roads engineers in Korea in the future so that experience gained from this
project can be incorporated in standard procedures for designing new and
improved roads. Third, the project would support MOC in establishing a program
to correct problems at high accident or hazardous locations. Identified on the
basis of police accident data, hazardous location remedial programs have been
shown by international experience to be cost-effective in improving road safety.
All of the road safety components would be funded directly by the Government.



-20-
Consultants Services and Training
3.8         Detailed engineering, construction supervision and other consultants
services would be carried out by local consultants selected by MOC in accordance
with local procedures and would be financed by the Borrower.  Training will
comprise of short courses and study tours related to various aspects of road
sector development also to be financed by the Borrower. A detailed program was
agreed during negotiations. (Annex 5, Part B)
Status of Preparation and Criteria for Selecting Comvonents
3.9         In preparation of the project full feasibility studies were carried
out on 47 road sections throughout Korea. These studies, which were completed
in September 1988, also include preliminary design in most cases and final
engineering in some instances. The Bank has reviewed national highway design
standards (Annex 1, Part C), as well as engineering for the project components,
and finds them satisfactory.
3.10        Agreed criteria have been used to select the proposed 21 road
sections from the 47 studied. In addition to a feasibility study and engineering
acceptable to the Bank, the main criteria for a section to be eligible for
financing under the project is an economic rate of return of at least 12%. In
the event that substitutions or additions to the proposed 21 sections become
necessary as the project proceeds, it was agreed that the same criteria would
be observed by MOC.  During periodic reviews of project progress, conformity
with the criteria will be examined in the field and confirmed.
C. Cost Estimates
3.11        The cost of the proposed project,  including physical and price
contingencies and right-of-way-costs, is estimated at W 359.2 billion or
US$513.1 million equivalent, including an estimated US$41.3 million equivalent
or 10% in taxes and duties for all project items except right-of-way.   The
proposed Bank loan would cover the project's total foreign exchange cost of
US$200 million, or about 39% of total costs. Costs have been estimated on the
basis of October 1988 prices. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of the
base cost of all project components, and price contingencies are estimated at
2% per annum for local costs throughout the project period (1989-92) and, for
foreign costs, 5.3% for 1989 and 1990 and 4.1% thereafter. Price contingencies
are equal to 9% of base costs plus physical contingencies. Estimated costs are
summarized in Table 3.1 and details of project roads for which feasibility
studies have been completed are given in Annex 4, Part A.



-21-
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Percent
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total Foreign
Component        ---- (Won Billion)-----  -----USS Million)----- Cost
1. Upgrading 6 widening  105.1  89.5  194.6  150.1  127.9  278.0    462
of about 270 km
2. Road Maintenance
(overlay and
strengthening)   24.6  21.0  45.6  35.2  30.0  65.2    46X
3. Equlpment         0.7   2.8   3.5   1.0   4.0   5.0    80X
Base Costs      130.4  113.3  243.7  186.3  161.9  348.2    472
4. Contingencies
Physical          12.6  11.8  24.4  18.0  16.8  34.8
Price             6.4   14.9   21.3   9.1   21.3   30.4
S. Right of Way     69.8   0.0  69.8  99.7   0.0  99.7         0t
Total Project Cost  219.2  140.0  359.2  313.1  200.0  513.1    392
Notest Thls table includes cost estLmates for the 21 candidate sections for funding
from the proposed loan only. October 1988 prices. Taxes equivalent to approximately
102 of cost other than right-of-way are included.
3.12        Cost estimates for upgrading and widening of existing roads are based
on preliminary engineering prepared by consultants and unit rates for similar
works being carried out and financed under the Highway Sector Project (Loan 2392-
KO). Compared with ongoing similar projects, the average cost per km of about
US$0.8 million for upgraditng and US$1.4 for widening are considered reasonable
and realistic. The cost estimates of US$0.1 million per km for road maintenance
are based on current unit rates for overlays and strengthening and are considered
realistic. The cost estimates for road maintenance, survey, laboratory and other
equipment (Annex 3,Part B) are based on actual prices for similar equipment
recently purchased under Loan 2392-XO.
D. Financing
3.13        The proposed Bank loan of US$200 million equivalent would cover the
full foreign exchange cost or about 39% of project costs. All remaining costs
would be financed from the general budget of the central government through MOC.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
E. Imp-la ^-tation
3.14        The project would be implemented over approximately a four-year
period starting in late 1989 and would be completed by June 30, 1993. MOC would
have overall responsibility for project implementation through its BPR which
would carry out the upgrading, widening and maintenance of national roads as well
as the road safety program. BPR would be responsible for all studies and for
the integrated planning of all roads initiated under the project. Preliminary
engineering for all project roads has been completed by local consultants. The



-22-
preparation of detailed engineering and bidding documents is under way and will
be completed by mid-1989.  Road upgrading, widening and periodic maintenance
works would be carried out by contract and would be supervised by HOC assisted
by consultants.
3.15        BPR would introduce the newly designed RMMS. Having gained some
experience under the study, BPR has prepared a plan to extend the Highway
Maintenance Management Study to cover the remaining part of the national highway
network using the methodology developed by the consultants.  As shown in the
implementation schedule (Annex 3,Part A), BPR is expected to take until
approximately the end of 1991 to complete the inventory and survey of the entire
network. In the meantime the present system, using only visual inspections for
decision making on road maintenance, will be gradually phased out and, as of
1991, the RMMS will be fully implemented. Forefzn and local consultants who
carried out the study would provide technical assistance to BPR to implement the
RMMS and to train staff.
3.16        The consultant who advised on road safety during feasibility studies
is presently continuing his tasks with BPR and will be available through the
preparation of detailed engineering of roads to be upgraded and widened. Terms
of Reference (TOR) for the hazardous location improvement program have been
reviewed and found satisfactory. The TOR for the preparation of the MOC road
safety handbook was discussed during appraisal and agreed with the Bank. During
negotiations a proposal to review the relevant laws and relations to be followed
by the preparation of a comprehensive road safety manual was reviewed and agreed.
3.17        Because a portion of the project involves widening of existing roads,
the right-of-way requirements call for acquisition of 450 ha of land and the
relocation of approximately 609 households.   The survey of the land to be
acquired has been completed and the acquisition process will begin in early
1989. Budgetary provision for the initial requirements has already been made.
The land will be acquired by MOC under the existing Special Law on Acquisition
and Compensation of Lands for Public Use under which fair and timely compensation
is paid for the property, including, where necessary, provision of alternative
housing to minimize hardship to the displaced families. MOC has considerable
experience in land acquisition and no major problems are expected in this
process. MOC's procedures and plans for land acquisition and compensation are
described in Annex 5, Part A.
F. Procurement
3.18        Contracts for major civil works estimated at about US$296.4 million
equivalent, including contingencies, would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. This would
cover about 70% of all civil works contracts. Small civil works contracts
amounting to an aggregate value of about US$112 million, dispersed throughout
the country and each costing up to US$10.0 million equivalent, which are not
attractive for foreign contractors, would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign
contractors would not, however, be precluded from bidding for those works. The
first tender bidding documents for civil works would be reviewed by the Bank and
the agreed version would be used for all contract packages for civil works



-23-
estimated to cost US$10.0 million equivalent or more. Road maintenance, survey
and laboratory equipment totalling about US$5.0 million equivalent would be
procured through LCB in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. A preference limited
to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the custom duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. The
procurement documents for the first purchase of equipment would be subject to
the Bank's prior review and an agreed standard document used for subsequent
purchases.  Consultant  services  for  detailed  engineering,   construction
supervision, technical assistance and training would be obtained in accordance
with local procedures and would be financed by the Borrower.
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
(US$ million)
Procuremnt Method
Project Element                      ICB    LCB           Total Cost
A. CIVIL WORKS
Widening and Upgrading            296.4  35.0            331.4
of national roads                (141.6)  (16.6)        (158.2)
Road maintenanee vorks                   77.0            77.0
(36.8)          (36.8)
B. EQUIPNT                                   5.0             5.0
(5.0)           (5.0)
TOTAL       296.4  117.0           413.4
(141.6)  (58.4)       (200.0)
Notes: 1. Amounts shown for each project element include contingencies.
2. Figures in pareathesis are the respective amounts finaaced by the Bank loan.
3. Total cost excludes land acquisition.
G. Disbursements
3.19        Disbursements under the loan would be made against the following
categories of expenditures:
(a)   48% of the total cost of road improvement;
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment or 100%
of the local expenditures (ex-factory) excluding identifiable taxes
and duties, of locally manufactured equipment; and
(c)   70% of local expenditures for goods procured locally (off-the-shelf).
3.20        To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account for the Bank's funds
would be opened in the Korea Exchange Bank, with an initial deposit of US$12
million equivalent, the estimated average expenditures for a four-month period.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be made when funds
are down to 50% of the initial deposit or three months of expenditures, whichever
comes first.



-24-
3.21        A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex '+,Part B
which also shows the profile for previous transport projects in Korea.  The
estimated disbursements generally follow the profile except that disbursements
are expected to be completed somewhat earlier since adequate counterpart funding
is available and because the road contracts are small compared to the capacity
of the construction industry available in Korea. The loan closing date would
be December 31, 1993.
3.22        Loan disbursements will be made against contracts for upgrading and
widening of national roads. Interim certification of civil works completed and
costed at unit rates in the contracts will be done by the supervisory consultants
and certified by MOC. Disbursements for minor civil works costing US$5.0 million
or less; and for equipment contracts valued at US$0.5 million or less each would
be made against statement of expenditures based on actual payments made to
contractors, suppliers or training institutions.
H. Auditing
3.23        MOC would establish and maintain a separate project account for
expenditures under the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that MOC would furnish to the Bank, within six months of the end of each fiscal
year, audit reports prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The audit would contain a separate opinion where statements of expenditure have
been used as a basis for disbursement.
I. Progress ReRorting and Monitoring
3.24        Agreement was reached with Government during negotiations on the
progress reporting requirements for the project. The reports would be submitted
to the Bank each quarter commencing December 30, 1989 and would form the basis
for reviews of progress. Annex 5, Part C gives the format for Project Monitoring
Indices which should be used.  Agreement was reached with Government during
negotiations on the preparation and submission by MOC of a Project Completion
Report no later than six months after the loan closing date.
J. Environmental Aspects
3.25        The proposed road improvements are not expected to cause any
noticeable environmental problems. Existing road alignments will be followed
to the extent  technically and economically  feasible.    Consequently,  the
acquisition of land, particularly agricultural land, will be minimized. Road
safety will be enhanced by the implementation of the safety program included in
the project as well as by road widening and paving and better maintenance.
These road improvements will also contribute to the reduction of air pollution
in the form of hazardous dust, vehicular noise and also mud during rainy weather.
Since the project road sections are mainly in rural areas the urban impact of
the project is not significant.



-25-
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND PROJECT RISKS
Benefits and Sensitivity Analysis
4.1         The candidate road sections for the project have been subject to
cost-benefit analysis and the final ranking for implementation has been made on
the basis of the estimated economic rate of return (ERR).   The selected
components have ERRs ranging from 12% to 54% which is above the opportunity cost
of capital for Korea (12%). The weighted average of selected components is 27%
and under the most pessimistic sensitivity test applied (10% less benefits and
10% higher cost) the weighted ERR is 24%, still judged acceptable. Details for
individual road sections are contained in Annex 4,Part A. Only the road widening
and upgrading components have been subject to formal economic analysis. Both road
maintenance and safety related activities are expected to produce even greater
benefits than the road widening and upgrading components. Based on the experience
of similar projects in Korea, periodic tnaintenance (resealing) is expected to
yield economic rates of return of more than 50%.
4.2         The project benefits have been estimated separately  for each
improvement scheme. They are based on a comparison of vehicle operating costs
(VOC) over the road sections in their improved and unimproved forms. The main
benefits obtained from the type of road improvements to be made under the
proposed project are from the substantial savings in VOC accruing to road users
but there are also benefits in the form of reduced travel time which have not
been quantified in this analysis. In the case of paving and re-aligning existing
gravel r:oads, the benefits are derived mainly from the much reduced surface
roughness, as well as smoother horizontal and vertical alignments. Operating
cost parameters for various road alignment types (paved and unpaved) were applied
to the specific characteristics obtained from a detailed inventory of all project
roads. In the case of widening two-lane to four-lanes, benefits would arise from
reduced traffic congestion i.e., higher vehicle speeds. The free flow traffic
speeds were determined in surveys made for roads in different gradient
categories. Speed variations caused by congestion were estimated from the US
Highway Capacity Manual and studies made for Korean conditions.
4.3         Traffic volumes were forecast for the period up to 2012 based on an
analysis, at the provincial and county level, of projected population and gross
regional product, combined with information on the volumes, origins and
distinctions of existing traffic on the roads in question. For the candidate
projects in the region surrounding Seoul, where traffic volumes are also affected
by the level of congestion on competing routes, results from a more sophisticated
network model were utilized to project future volumes.  The traffic analysis
produced annual growth rates of 8-12% for gravel roads (having an average 1987
traffic of 100 to 600 vehicles per day) and 6-8% for roads to be widened (having
an average 1987 traffic of 5,000 to 25,000).
4.4         The economic costs and benefits were estimated for each candidate
scheme net of taxes and related to each other over an economic life of 20 years,
assuming an implementation period of four years.  The 21 schemes tentatively
selected for the project are those with the highest ERRs.



-26-
4.5         It is difficult to estimate the precise impact of the project on the
poverty group since project benefits would accrue to the population at large
rather than to any particular income group. However, given the large proportion
of buses in the traffic stream in Korea, the poverty impact is expected to be
significant.
Risks
4.6         The project poses no major risks.   There is a possibility that
unforseen difficulties with land acquisition could result in delays in the timely
implementation of the project. However, given MOC's experience, and the fact
that the land required is not close to major city centers, any delays are
expected to be minimal. A number of people will need to be resettled but previous
experience in Korea indicates that the assessment and payment of compensation
to the affected people is made in a fair and timely manner and delays are not
expected.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         During negotiations, the Government confirmed:
(a)   that the road maintenance management system would be carried out as
agreed (paras.3.6 & 3.15);
(b) that the road safety program would be carried out (paras. 3.7 &
3.16); and,
(c)   the details of the training program (para. 3.8).
5.2         During  negotiations,  the  Government  provided  assurances  that
financing would be provided (para. 3.13).
5.3         Subject to the above conditions and agreements, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$200 million equivalent,
for a period of 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the standard
variable interest rate. The borrower would be the Republic of Korea.



ROAD DIIOYUIT PROJECT
Pdic la Obtrkt 11967-197
Ibit:t a
btimal lad  Al            PrWial  leui                CmmtWv Spcia C1t                                 las         Cit7 las                          Tmw
Paid   krdl Totel         Pam   Gravel   *Te4          Paved   kavl  Total           PaW    kv"ul  Total           Paved  Orml   fetl            Paved  Prm"l Ye
$0cod FTP
197          1,442  6,744 3,I9          52  10,6l    100,652        -        -     L. L3   1,444    1117                         244  13,9W   14,144         2,02   32,70. 34,79
1941         1,560  6,626  ,3fi6        74  10,597  10,671          -        -     LA.              303   1,247    I,65          VA   32,294   14,55         7,2tO  52,50   4,"9
1m           2,110  6,461 1,571        134  10,703   10,37          -        -     LL              452   2,29    2,744           427  14,59   10,014         2,W   3619"  37,36
1770         2,461  6,197  1,          202  10,62   1094            -        -     LA.              724   4,751   5,476          477  14,73   15,216         3,4  36,601   0,244
1971        2,943  5,843 3,73          254  10,524   0,774          -        -      .A.           1,934   3,723   5,662         A6   29,49   15,413          5,739   34,346   0,6X5
Third FTP
1972         3,319  5,610 I,929        293  10,517   10,90          -        -     LA.            2,464   4,022   6,487          7    15,9      6,652        6,769   309   40,37
1973        3,841  5,419 9,237         503   10,I 9   10,892        -        -     LA.            2,63   3,4   6,537             316   1,04   36,65          7,&20    5,161  43,91
1974        4,070  5,217 9,27          63   10,250   30,3K          -        -     LA.            2,911   3,3   6,60           1,019  16,372  17,m           I,'     s5,5=   44,79
1m          4,40   4,612  9,360        719  10,092   0,31           -        -      .             3,377   3,50    6,767        1,1    16,t12   I7,%?        10,00   34,94    44,905
3796        4,876  4,46 9,360          off  10,057   10,            -        -      U.a.          3,930    3,419   7,291       1,347   1,64   17,9"5         0,912  34,02   46,j514
Forth FT
1977        5,436   4,006  9,442        n2    9,9n   10,355          384  12,125   12,59          4,053    3,405   7,456       1,306   4,095    5,01        12,07   3s,567   46,64
1978         6,200  3,257 9,457        9"    9,82   10,819           442  12,061  12,503          4,537   3,220   7,657        I,6      4,051   5,519       IS3,5    52,31   45,955
197         6,224   3,233  9,457      1,169   9,919   30,93          466  12,022  12,43           4,023   3,042   7,8S         3,595   3,9I   5,536         14,273  32,056   46J,3
1w0          6,772  2,65  9,457      3,35   9,6U    11,021           54   31,948  12,512          5,035   2,903    7,99        3,844   4,179   6,023        15,s5   31,352  46,95
1991  hi    8,019  5,473 13,492      1,303    3,930   10,013         532  11,325  11,377          5,354   3,549   9,403        3,62    4,M      6,051       17,379  13,39   50,337
Fiftt FTP
1992         9,643  4,33 13,476      1,205   9,210  10,005           597  10,949  il,377         6,16   3,296   9,42           2,513   6,956   9,527        19,293   34,653   53,96
1993         9,437   4,037 13,474    1,927   9,214   10,01          709  10,931  11,639          6,37   3,255   9,592         2,970    6,93     '3m        21,279  33,320  54,5
1994         9,064   3,017 13,65     2,404    7,675  10,079        1,24   10,632   31,9176        6,644   2,915   9,759        3,224    2,400   5,624       23,46    27,39  51,003
1935        10,433  3,223 13,656     2,967    7,200  30,167        1,843   10,771   12,634        7,133   2,865   10,018       3,696   2,1l3   5,3"         26,072  26,392  52,264
1986        10,965  2,809 13,673      3,033   6,431  10,314        2,445   10,339  12,714         7,759   2,965   10,724       4,169    I,m     6,158       29,071  24,562   53,453
Sisth FrP
3997        11,277  2,515 13,7M2     4,272    6,054  10,320        2,749  10,112  12,561          0,427   2,651   33,079       4,557    2,073   6,63        31,234  23,405  54,69
Coqsition
in1987            92?    I9C  0oo         411      592    1001          211      79S    3002           761     241    I00           69?      33      loo3        5m       431    I00?
J I aldin9 espresm      no rsd  OIC bri0dittion, tatallin  1,54 Oa b.
In addition there  re willap ace. rods of iich 52,444U  had bs  construted ad iWrovWd  ndr  the SaelI laveent at the ad of 190.
Ui bed netorhk wre rKclsified.
Sowee: Ninistry of ConstrKtiN



- 28 -
IMRE                                      AMNEX I
Part 8
ROAD INPROVENERT PROJECT
ROAD DEVELOPNENT PLAN (1987W-1991)
......... ................  
(Ofllion Ubn at 198B Price)
FIFTH 5-YEAR PLAN                 SIXTH 5-YEAR PLAN bl                Total
item                1982-1986           1987    1988       1989       1990      1991   (V sit.)
Government Expenditures
an National HIghways a/
Admfnistration               49.5            15.0    17.2       20.6       21.9      23.4       98.1
Construction              1,555.6           508.8   487.7  1,182.3   1,243.4   1,319.8   4,742.0
Naintenance                 154.2            49.5    59.6       80.1       85.7      91.8      366.7
... .... .. ......... ........ ... .........  ...... ..........   ....... ...........   .......
Subtotal             1,759.3           573.3   564.5  1,283.0   1,351.0   1,435.0   5,206.8
Expenditures on ProvincIal
Gun (Cosnty), and City Roads
Administration               97.9            21.2    22.8       45.4       55.0      55.6      200.0
Constructfon              3,171.4          1,068.3   74S.8  1,481.0   1,798.0   1,820.8   6,913.1
maintenance                 209.3            53.2    46.5       92.2      112.0     113.4      417.3
... .................. .. ......... ..........  ...... ..........   ....... ..........   .......
Subtotal             3,478.6          1,142.7   815.1   1,618.6   1,965.0   1,989.8   7,530.4
a/ Included natfonaL government's Investments to Korea HIghway Corperation for fts expressway construction.
b/  EstImated based on pLanned length of these roads.



- 29 -
Anrex I
Part C
R0A9 IMPROVEMRE PROJECT
Hfahwav Destan Standards
A. Expressway Standards
Desian Speeds and Traffic Volumes
(kmlhr)
Design Traffic Volume CVeh./Day)
Topography              More than 30,000                 30,000-10,000            Less than 10.000
Flat                         120-100                           100-80                   80-60
ountainous                    100-80                           80 60                    60-50
Tvmical Geometric Desian Standards
Design Speed (km/bhr)
120             100             80               60
Radius of curvatures
Desirable mfnimum (m)                               710             460              280              150
Absolute minim=u Cm)                                570             320              230              120
Maximum grade (X)                                       2               3                4               5
Length of vertical curve
desirable mini.mu
Crest (m)                                          11,000           6,000            3,000            1.400
Sag (m)                                             4,000           3,000            2,000            1,000
Nfniua  seight distance {m)                           210             160              110               75
Bridge design loading                               DB-24           DB-24            DB-24           D8-24



- 30 -
S. Four Lno National Road Standards
Terrain
6eotrfoc Design Standards                Ufit            Fltt       Hilly       Mountainous /a
... ... .....   .........  ...............
Traffic Voltu  Capacity                  AADT          51.000       30,000        16,000
Design Speed                             km/h             100           80            80
Ninim  radius of curvature                  m             400          300           200
Maximu gradient                                              5          6             7
Roadway Features (all areas)
Width of pavement                           m            14.8         14.8          14.8
Width of shoulders                          m            1.85         1.85          1.35
Width of right-of-vay                       m              40           30            25
Structural Oesfgn Features (all areas)
Axle load (pavement)                      lbs       18.000 /c
Bridge Loading                              -           0D-24
Bridge widths (for new bridges
over 100 m long) /d                       m      17.5-16.5 (curb to curb)
Verticat clearance                          m             4.8          4.8           4.8



- 31 -
C. TWo Len gational Road Standards
Terrain
Geometric Design Standards               Unit              Flat          Hilly        Nountainous  /a
Design Speed                               /h               8O              60                   40
Ninfsa radius of curvature:
Desirable                                 m              300             200                   100
NInimum                                   m              230             120                   S0
Naximum Gradfent                            X                6               7                    9
Destrable                                 X                4               5                    7
Roadway Features (alt areas)                            Type C          Type B               Type A
AADT I.    6,500-9,000      4,000-6,500      less than 4,000
Width of pavement                           m              7.3             6.8                  6.3
Vidth of shoulders                          m         1.85-1.1       1.60-1.10            1.35-0.85
Width of right-of-uay/f                     m               30              25                   25
Structural Design Features (all areas)
Axle load (pavement)                       lbs       18,000 /c
Bridge loading                               -     D8-18, equivalent to AASHO H20-S16
Bridge widths (for new bridges) /g
Rural Areas                               m             10.0             9.0                  9.0
Urban Ares                                m             10.0             9.0                  9.0
Vertical Clearance                          m             4.80             4.8                  4.8
/a Design speeds and widths may be reduced and gradients Increased on section with
exceptionally difficult terrain, as appropriate in each case.
/b Right-of-way width Increased to 42 m ihere designed to accomodate ultimate construction of 4-lane
divided highway.
/c Pavemnt desigrned for the projected msmber of repetitions of "equfvalent
18,000 lbs axle loads
/d Depending on traffic volume
/e Right-of-way width reduced to 20 m ihere necessary to minimize demolition
of property In urban areas.
If Existing bridges retained unless significantly substandard in strength, size or altgment.



- 32 -
Annex 2. Part A
KOREA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
The Road Segtor: Road Safety Component Background
IMPROVED SAFETY THROUGH ROAD DESIGN
1.          One of the most cost effective ways of improving road safety in any
country is to identify sites on the road network which have abnormally high
numbers of accidents (i.e. hazardous location) and to make any necessary
improvements to make such sites safer.   This approach has been extremely
successful in all the countries which have made serious efforts to improve road
safety; typical examples of accident reduction by such means are the 61%
reduction achieved in Japan and 38% by Sweden. In Korea, experience from the
Bank-financed Seoul Urban Transport Project, indicates that accident reductions
of around 45% can be achieved at such locations.
2.          In 1987, 32.6% of All reported accidents in Korea occurred at 5,233
hazardous locations. Of these hazardous locations, 3,787 (72.4%) were on
provincia'l and city roads and 1,446 (29.6%) were on the national road network.
Assuming an average reduction of 45% as achieved under the Seoul Project, up to
25,000 accidents could be prevented each year simply by undertaking effective
hazardous location improvement program on national and provincial roads.
3.          The cost effectiveness of hazardous location improvements especially
where a low-cost countermeasures approach is used can be extremely high, and
economic rates of return (ERR) of 200-300% are quite common. For example, HK$5.3
million "invested' in Rong Kong during 1981 to 1983 to improve 89 "high frequency
accident locations' gave an average ERR of 323% through accident savings.
Consequently, a properly designed and executed hazardous location improvement
program is expected to be an effective part of Korea's effort to improve road
safety.
4.          Despite its undeniable importance, it is not enough just to undertake
hazardous location improvements after accidents occur. It is equally important
and necessary to undertake preventive action while planning and designing future
roads to ensure that designs incorporate safety considerations and thereby avoid
the creation of future hazardous locations. Incorporation of safety features
and safety-conscious design principles during planning, design and construction
phases can be undertaken at marginal cost and can have a fundamental influence
on future road safety in a country. In the early stages of road development,
traffic levels are usually low and the primary objective of roads authorities
is to provide access to the different parts of the country. As traffic grows,
highway authorities become increasingly concerned with providing sufficient
capacity to meet the demands and developmental needs of the country. Further
increases in traffic in the later stages of development (once the initial primary
objectives of access and capacity through new roads have been largely satisfied)
normally force roads authorities to recognize that it is not possible to continue
increasing capacity indefinitely via road building alone and that operational
efficiency also needs to be achieved.



- 33 -
Annex 2. Part A
5.          As it joins the ranks of the developed nations, Korea has reached
this third stage of transport development and MOC and other roads authorities
new and in the future must increasingly seek ways to raise the operational
efficiency of their road networks both in terms of increasing capacity and in
terms of improving road safety.
6.          Korean geometric design standards and highway construction practices
are broadly compatible with international practice, or can be made so with
relative ease, but very significant inadequacies exist in the present highway
network design philosophy and the implications arising from it. Until recently,
there was little attention paid to the functional design and operational aspects
of roads in Korea and, as a consequence, the road networks will have serious
traffic and safety problems in 10 to 20 years when traffic levels increase.
7.          The areas of greatest inadequacy relate to MOC control over the
function, operation and access control of national roads and in its present
activities related to identifying, analyzing and improving hazardous locations
on national roads. Present Korean traffic engineering design practices result
not only in inadequate guidance to drivers at junctions but, in some cases,
actually unnecessarily increase the risks to road users, particularly
pedestrians, through insensitive traffic engineering design of facilities.
8.          Furthermore, the shared responsibility for road signing (with MOC
responsible only for direcrion and information signs and the police responsible
for traffic signals, road markings, warning, prohibitory and supplementary signs)
means that MOC does not have overall control over operational aspects of its
roads and the traffic engineering design of junctions along the national roads.
The interface of provincial roads and national roads, in particular, often
results in the creation of dangerous conditions.  The general absense of safety-
conscious design practices in the design of road junctions and the Iack of basic
traffic engineering expertise to create safer, more efficient road networks at
national and local administrative levels leads to unsafe and inefficient
operation of roads in Korea.
INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
9.          The present dispersal of responsibilities between MOC and the police
over road signs and road markings will require prior agreement of and
consultation with the police. This is particularly so with regard to essential
and fundamental changes in approach such as the provision of protected refuges
at the centers of zebra crossings to enable the pedestrian crossing manoeuvre
to be made in two stages and the (by Korean standards) radical changes in type
and positioning of junction markings and the adoption of road hierarchy concepts
and their implications.



- 34 -
Annex 2. Part A
10.         The introduction and acceptance of road hierarchy concepts, for
example, automatically leads to the need to have very clearly defined priority
for the major road at every junction. This in turn, leads to the need for better
design of junctions and the better positioning of motorists to guide them safely
and efficiently through the conflict areas of intersections. Yield markings and
stop lines pulled forward to the major road edge are a fundamental part of that
strategy and the police will have to be consulted as soon as possible on these
and other similar traffic engineering issues. Under present legislation, police
are responsible for such issues.
11.         As soon as possible the present division of responsibilities needs
to be reviewed and revised if found necessary. In the short term an enabling
mechanism needs to be created to permit MOC more opportunity to influence the
traffic engineering aspects of its roads. One of the ways this might be done
may be to develop comprehensive guidelines on traffic engineering and safety-
related aspects of roads in Korea. (e.g. typical layouts and marking schemes for
junctions, channelization, road signing, etc.). Such guidelines could provide
a convenient framework and guidelines for consistent and safety-conscious traffic
engineering design in Korea.
ROAD SAFETY ON NATIONAL ROADS
12.         MOC's actions to improve road safety on the national road network
involves two basic components. First, specific existing high-accident locations
will be improved, and second, broad measures to improve safety on existing and
new roads are under development.
13.         A Hazardous Location Program.        As part of the Government's
interministerial effort to improve road safety, MOC has been entrusted with the
specific task of reducing road accidents on the national road network. The worst
500 hazardous locations (places with abnormally high numbers of accidents
occurring) on national roads were identified by the police authorities and
submitted to MOC for improvement. An additional amount of W 10 billion (US$14.3
million) has been allocated via MOC's 1989 budget specifically for improvements
to be implemented at the worst hazardous locations.
14.         MOC efforts to improve road safety in the past (in the absence of
information on locations with high accident occurrence) have usually been
directed at improving potentially dangerous sections of the network where sight
lines, gradients and other substandard geometric standards were considered to
pose potential danger to motorists. Now that specific information is available
on the actual hazardous locations and an additional budget has been made
available, a more concerted effort is to be made at improving hazardous locations
on national roads. This hazardous location improvement program will, through
Joint working with other relevant agencies and specialists, examine the factors
causing accidents at each location and seek to devise appropriate countermeasures
for improving safety at that location. The measures considered may range from
low-cost road marking, warning signs and traffic signals to bypass construction
and other higher-cost solutions. In each case the most cost-effective solution
will be implemented after in-depth studies have been carried out.



- 35 -
Annex 2. Part A
15.         A Program to Improve Road Safety on Existing and New Roads.   In
order to minimize future problems MOC staff will be trained in the latest road
safety practices and methods in an overseas program. Operational aspects of
existing and planning and design of future national roads will be improved by
introducing more safetv-conscious desien techniques into the planning and design
phases of road construction. Road Safety Guidelines will also be developed to
provide advice, guidance and a source of reference on road safety and traffic
engineering issues for roads engineers and others responsible for planning
designing or operating roads in Korea. This effort involves the preparation of
an MOC Road Safety Handbook as the initial step. HOC will then propose a through
review of the laws and regulations governing road safety with a view to
rationalizing  responsibility  for  these  matters.         Once  institutional
responsibility is reformed MOC intends to propose that a comprehensive full
manual on road safety and traffic engineering be prepared jointly by all parties
which will become the standard reference text for roads engineers, police etc.
in Korea. Such a manual would introduce guidelines and advice on safety-conscious
design principles to provide consistency of design and approach in traffic
engineering related-matters for all roads and traffic-related agencies.
16.         Each of these components is addressed in the MOC road safety program
described in Annex 2, Part B.



- 36 -
Annex 2. Part B
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road SafetX: HOC Road Safety Imnlementation Program
A. HAZARDOUS LOCATION PROGRAM AT 500 SITES ON NATIONAL ROADS
Appointment of study team to carry out hazardous
location improvement program aimed at maximizing      December 1988
accident reduction at minimum cost.
Field surveys of hazardous locations by teams.        Jan.-March 1989
Analysis of sites and outline design of selected      April - June 1989
target sites for improvement.
Detailed design of improvements of target sites       July - Sept. 1989
by MOC and related agencies.
Implementation of improvements.                       Sept. 89 - July 91
B. IMPROVING ROAD SAFETY ON EXISTING AND NEW ROADS
(1) PlanninagDesign of New Roads
Adoption of safety-conscious design principles in     Jan.89 - may 89
detailed design of proposed project roads.
Review of safety aspects of project schemes.          June 1989
(2) Training on Road Safetv Issues (ADB funded)
Introductory course for 6 NOC staff on road           December 1988
safety program design and implementation.
Overseas training and secondments to highway          April - May 1989
authorities in  UK, USA and Japan to develop
skills/knowledge about road safety issues and how
other countries tackle such pr-ablems.
In-service  course  for  30  HOC  engineers  on       June - July 1989
hazardous    location    improvements    and
countermeasures.



- 37 -
Annex 2. Part B
(3)  Road Safety Guidelines
Bank/MOC agreement on TOR for MOC Road Safety         November 1988
Handbook.
Commencement of preparation of NOC Road Safety        December 1988
Handbook by consultants.
Review of draft  sandbook with IBRD.                   December 1989
NOC to propose review of safety aspects of Road        December 1990
Law and Traffic Safety Law by committee under PNO
NOC to propose joint preparation of comprehensive      December 1991
and   integrated   road   safety   and   traffic
engineering manual for all relevant agencies.



- 38 -
Annex 2. Part C
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Safety
Road Safety Guidelines Terms of Reference
General Background
1.          One of the major factors contributing to road safety problems in
Korea is the historic fragmentation of institutional responsibility which can
result in uncoordinated activities in building and operational management of
roads. The present system of separation of responsibility for geometric design
and construction from that for traffic engineering facilities can leave gaps in
what is designed and implemented and lead to poorly designed junctions which
become heavily congested or accident blackspots when traffic levels rise.
2.          The main road and traffic related agencies each have their own
respective manuals specifying standards (eg. MOC has highway design standards,
police have traffic control regulations). Neither of these documents gives
practical advice or guidance on how the individual elements of highway design
and control devices should be used in combination to provide appropriate guidance
for road users. Most of the necessary individual items are included in such
manuals although many need updating and amplification to reflect modern
developments in traffic engineering and road safety research. Consequently, none
of the present documents used by road and traffic related agencies in Korea
actually meets the wider needs of those seeking to improve traffic engineering
and safety aspects of Korean road networks.
3.          Interim advice was provided on such matters as part of this project
but the document produced (Interim Advice on Road Safety and Design Standards,
April 1988) was not able to cover all the necessary areas and concentrated only
upon the areas of greatest urgency with respect to that particular project. A
more comprehensive document is now needed to improve the operational efficiency
and safety of roads in Korea and to provide a consistent approach and agreed,
standardized solutions in terms of junction designs, traffic signals,
channelization and road marking/signing which are acceptable to all the concerned
agencies. The process of establishing national Guidelines for Road Safety
necessarily involves several steps or stages.
MOC Road Safetv Handbook
4.          The present MOC highway design standard manual was not prepared to
explicitly consider the safety related dimensions of those activities under the
jurisdiction of MOC. Nor was it prepared in a fashion which sought to emphasise
the linkages and interdependencies between HOC responsibilities and those of
related agencies such as the police. In view of the urgent need to improve road
safety and MOC's internal requirements for guidance on safety conscious design,
MOC, in consultation with the Bank decided to proceed with the preparation of
a MOC Road Safety Handbook starting late in 1988.



- 39 -
Annex 2. Part C
5.          The terms of reference for this exercise were reviewed with the Bank
and found satisfactory. The emphasis of the work is to provide guidance on the
design of facilities where safety is a primary purpose or where safety can be
enhanced through better design. Much of the analysis and recommendations are
to be derived from the consultants analyzing the experience of other countries
and adapting the practices for Korean conditions. Much of the work done in
preparing safety designs for this project will be elaborated in this Handbook.
Special emphasis is being given to highway safety problems in urbanizing areas,
focused on intersections, a particularly relevant problem in Korea at this time.
Specific new facilities for safety such as barriers and guard rails will receive
special attention. The standards and practices of related agencies, as codified
in their respective design manuals, will be incorporated in the handbook but this
initial effort will focus on immediate MOC concerns. MOC plans to discuss the
draft of this Handbook with the Bank late in 1989.
Review and Revisions of Relevant Laws and Regulations
6.          The second step in the process of determining and preparing national
road safety guidelines would be to review the relevant laws and regulations with
a view to identifying both overlapping as well as missing areas of
responsibility.    The  objective  of such  an exercise  would be not  only
identification but also rationalization either in the form of revision of
existing statutes or drafting of new laws and regulations. For such an exercise
to be effective it should be conducted under the auspices of an independent
authority and participated in by all agencies. The Committee on Road Traffic
Safety Policy under the Prime Minister's Office is such a body and MOC has agreed
to put such an exercise on the agenda of that committee later in 1989. The main
laws to be reviewed would be the 1979 Traffic Safety Law and the 1979 Road Law.
Comprehensive Road Safetv and Traffic Engineering Manual
7.          Once the institutional and legal responsibilities are rationalized
there is the need for a comprehensive Korean handbook on Traffic Engineering and
Road Safety issues related to road planning, design and operation which gives
guidance and advice to roads engineers, police and other interested parties in
Korea. It would establish consistent and uniform traffic engineering and road
safety practices on Korean road networks.   Such a manual exists for major
developed countries but it would be effective to have a version specifically
tailored to Korean conditions and framework and available in the local language.
8.          All key ministries and organizations with road and traffic-related
responsibilities, such as the police, specialist researchers, traffic experts,
consultants, and others, would be involved in a critical review of current
practices and standards used by road and traffic related agencies at the
national, provincial and city levels to identify areas of inadequacy in present
Korean traffic engineering and road safety practices and standards. A review
of overseas practices, design guides, manuals and standards in the areas of
traffic engineering and road safety with a view to adapting such for application
in Korea would augment the earlier work on MOC's own, more restricted handbook.



- 40 -
Annex 2. Part C
9.          As in the case of the review of laws and regulations, this Manual
could only be prepared as a joint exercise among the main agencies with outside
sponsorship such as the Prime Minister's Office could provide. A draft terms
of reference has been discussed between the Bank and MOC which will be further
elaborated as steps 1 and 2 (MOC Handbook and review of laws) are undertaken.
Based upon the outcome of the preceding steps and the discussions with outside
experts, MOC expects to place the preparation of such a manual on the agenda of
the Road Safety Policy Committee and to participate if the exercise is
undertaken. The timing of this work is dependent on the successful completion
of the review of laws and regulations which is expected to take until late in
1990.



- 41 -
Annex 3. Part A
KOREA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Maintenance
Backfround and Implementation of the New Road Maintenance Management System
1.    Since the establishment of a separate road maintenance organization in
1972, Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) of the Ministry of Construction (HOC) has been
substantially strengthened and road maintenance has improved. As shown in the
following table the Government has been continuously allocating more budget to
road maintenance enabling BPR to increase the physical quantity of maintenance
each year.
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988    1989  1990  1991  1992
(Actual)                     (Plenned)
Allocations              25.0  39.0  40.0  49.5  59.6    80.2  85.8  91.8  98.2
Accomplishments (km):
- routine
maintenance         6,895 7,093 7,467 7,971 8,132   8,666 9,200 9,73710,220
- regravelling           398 1,716 9,400 4,325 2,136   1,602 1,068   534   450
- resealing               96   119   287   576   479       500   500   600   600
- overlay                252   437   367   502   682       650   800   800   800
-  strengthening           4      2     8    10     2       60   200   250   250
2.    Although the quantity of road maintenance has improved, it is recognized
that there is a lack of sophisticated tools for comprehensive planning,
programming and budgeting of annual and multi-year road maintenance programs to
meet the requirements of rapidly growing present and future traffic. At present,
decisions on road maintenance are based on visual inspections without any survey
of pavement conditions that utilizes modern testing equipment or analyses that
data collected in a sophisticated manner. As shown above, emphases has been
given to regravelling, resealing and overlay and while strengthening of pavements
has been neglected.   As a result,  the bearing capacity of many roads is
inadeauate to resist deterioration and cracking under the high volume of heavy
vehicles. To correct this situation, MOC undertook a road management study with
the help of consultants under the Highway Sector Project (Loan 2392-KO).  The
study was completed in December 1987. Based on a detailed survey of about 1,100
km of national roads and using the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-
3), the study consultants developed and recommended the new Road Maintenance
Management System (RMMS).
3.    Using the newly developed RMNS, BPR prepared a 10-year road maintenance
program (1988-97) for the 1,100 km of roads studied by the consultants.  The
program includes about 996 km of paved roads to be resealed or overlaid and 126
km of roads or about 12% to be strengthened within the first three years (1989-
91). Based on these indications, BPR prepared a 4-year program (1989-92) and
identified budgetary requirements as shown in the above table. Emphases is now



- 42 -
being given to the strengthening of existing paved roads and accordingly the
budgetary allocations are expected to be substantially increased starting in 1989
as compared with the past.
4.    HOC has adopted the proposed RMZS which is designed to maximize the
efficient use of available resources and to prevent roads from further
deterioration. Therefore, MOC has prepared a plan to continue the detailed road
inventory, surveys and pavement condition analysis started under the study in
order to cover the entire road network, using the same methods and procedures
developed by the consultants. Survey and laboratory equipment have been procured
under the Highway Sector Project (Loan 2392-KO) and is being delivered. A
consultancy agreement is being finalized with local consultants who participated
in the study to assist BPR with road survey starting in late 1988.
5.    According to the BPR's plan the remaining 7,057 km of national roads
(excluding roads passing through urban areas) will be inventoried and surveyed
over a three-year period starting in early 1989, with expected completion by the
end of 1991, as shown in following implementation schedule:
Responsible          Target Date
Activity                                   AnD=           Start     Coletion
1.  Prepare TOR. select and engage           MOC          -           Feb. '87
consultants for the Korea Highway        Bank
Maintenance Management Study.
2.  Carry out the study including            Consult      Feb. '87    Dec. '87
detailed survey of about 1,100 km        BPR
of national roads and recommend
most appropriate Road Maintenance
Management System (RMMS).
3. Review RMMS and make decision on          GOK          Jan. '88    Apr. '88
adoption and continuation of             HOC
detailed survey of the remaining         BPR
7,057 km of national rural roads.        Bank
4.  Prepare the list, specifications,        BPR          Jan. '88    Nov. '88
and bidding documents for                Bank
procurement of survey and laboratory    Supplier
equipment; invite the bids and with
the Bank's approval award contracts
for delivery of equipment.
5.  Select and appoint consultants to        BPR          Jan. '88    Nov. '88
assist BPR and NCL in carrying out       NCL
detailed survey, of the remaining        Consult.
7,057 km of national rural roads and
to provide on-the-job training.



-43 -
Responsible          Target Date
Activity                                  Agency         start     Completion
6. Update inventory of the national       BPR
road network, carry out detailed      NCL
survey, including a deflection        Consultant
campaign, establish a highway
data bank and, using RMKS,
prepare road maintenance program
covering four year period:
- 1,000 km                                          Nov. '88   Aug. '89
- 1,500 km                                          Jul. '89    May. '90
- 2,500 km                                          Apr. '90   Feb. '91
- 2,057 km                                          Feb. '91   Oct. '91
7.  Prepare bidding documents, invite     BPR            Oct. '89    May  '90
the bids, and award contracts for     Bank
strengthening of the first year       Contractor
maintenance program.
8.  Carry out strengthening of            BPR            May  '90    Dec. '90
national highways in 1990.            Contractor
9.  Identify the second and third         BPR
national highways to be               Consultants
strengthened under the project
to be agreed upon:
- for 1991                                           -           Sep. '90
- for 1992                                           -           Sep. '91
10. Prepare and issue bidding documents   BPR
evaluate bids, award contracts and    Contractor
carry out highway strengthening       Consultants
work:
- for 1991                                          Oct. '90    Dec. '91
- for 1992                                          Oct. '91    Dec. '92



- 44 -
KOREA                             Annex 3
Part B
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Maintenance
List of Road Maintenance and other Equipment
(US$ Million)
No. of       Unit        Total   Foreign
Item Description                          Units         Cost        Cost   Percent
of Total
1. Weight Scale (hand type)               10     $22,000    $220,000         100%
2. Weight Scale (weigh in motion type)   10      $50,000    $500,000         100%
3. Tractor-trailer                        18     $80,000  $1,440,000          80%
4. Crusher                                 2    $150,000    $300,000          80%
5. Self-propelled roller                   9     $50,000    $450,000          80%
6. Two-way loader                          1     $60,000      $60,000         80%
7. Self-loader                             6     $70,000    $420,000          80%
8. Wheel loader                            9     $50,000    $450,000          80%
9. Motor grader                            6     $90,000    $540,000          80%
10. Dump truck                             1     $20,000      $20,000         80%
11. Other equipment                                          $600,000         80%
TOTAL EQUIPMENT                  72               $5,000,000



- 45 -
KOREA                                    Amex 4
ROAD INPROVENEI T PROJECT                        Part A
HOC HIGH PRIORITY PROGRAM AND SELECTED ROADS DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Lot  Section                                                            Econromc                  Cost
Rate of     ROI   Length  per
No.    Name             Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Total Return                        km.
- (Won Billion)        -. (USS Nillion) .     (ERR)  (Won B.)  (km)   (USS)
1. Upgrading and Widening of National Roads
GROUP A (upgrading)
1 Bucheon-Gaehwa *      9.4     8.0    17.4    13.4    11.4    24.8        362  5.967   14.35   1,728
2 Donghae-Oggye*        1.2      1.0     2.2     1.7     1.4      3.1      132  0.798    6.85      455
3oggye-Gangdong         2.5      2.1     4.6     3.5     3.0      6.5       22  0.532      9.4     696
4 GangdoGangneGuig *    3.3      2.8     6.2     4.7     4.0      8.8      12S 1.556    9.55       921
5 Yeoryeng-Imgye        7.8      6.7    14.5    11.2     9.5    20.7        9X  1.602       23     898
6 IngyeD-onghae         9.1      7.8    16.9    13.1    11.1    24.2        6X   0.16    21.6   1,119
7 Idong-*Wauri *        5.1      4.3     9.4     7.3     6.2    13.4       14S 1.313   20.78       647
8 Gihwa-Damogri         5.3      4.5     9.8     7.6     6.4    14.0        52  0.549    16.5      848
9 Damogri-Sachangri     3.4      2.9     6.2     4.8     4.1      8.9       82  0.434       13     685
10 Ibjang-Jlincheon      3.7     3.2      6.9     5.3     4.5     9.8       112  0.987   13.83      711
11 SeonghwainIbjawg *    2.7     2.3      5.0     3.9     3.3     7.2       19X 0.936   12.35       584
12 ChilboSannae          3.3     2.8      6.1     4.7     4.0     8.7       12S 0.316       11      790
13 Sanae-Galdam          6.5     5.5    12.1      9.3     7.9    17.2       62  0.273    11.4   1,512
14 GwangyangOggoo*       2.1     1.8      3.8     3.0     2.5     5.5       172  0.524   11.02      498
15 Jangheung-Holcheon    2.6     2.2      4.8     3.7     3.1     6.8       102  0.482   12.77      532
16 Seoggog-Ssangam *     3.7     3.2      6.9     5.4     4.6     9.9       172  0.562   19.57      507
17 JansheungeNaJu        3.6     3.1      6.7     5.2     4.4     9.6       172  1.M      19.87     482
18 Gigye-Jugjang         4.8     4.1      9.0     6.9     5.9    12.8       122  0.588   17.68      723
19 Yeongyang-Jaesan      6.0     5.1    11.1      8.5     7.3    15.8       112  1.086   30.04      526
20 Jaesan-Hyeondong      3.8     3.2      7.0     5.4     4.6    10.0        9X  0.354   13.76      729
Subtotal for GROUP A    89.9    76.6   166.5   128.4   109.4   237.8          20.311 308.320      771
GROUP 8 (widening)
21 Jeongog-Seongdong*    4.8     4.1      8.9     6.9     5.9    12.7       172   2.42   17.42      731
22 Suweon-Indeogweon*    4.9     4.2      9.2     7.1     6.0    13.1       212 13.346   10.14   1,291
23 Seonghwan-Pyeongtaeg*   1.7    1.5     3.2     2.5     2.1     4.6       252  1.006     4.6   1,002
24 Pyeongteeg-Songtan    6.5     5.5    12.0      9.2     7.9    17.1       172  2.324     9.3   1,841
25 G--CjuSegm*           6.6     5.6    12.2      9.4     8.0    17.4       542  3.955      13   1,341
26 Newuggog-Syeogje      8.7     7.4    16.1    12.4    10.6    23.0        15X  3.958    8.45   2,724
27 Byeogje-Euijeongbu    9.2     7.8    17.1    13.2    11.2    24.4        202  3.081   1d.44   1,482
28 Singal-Yongin*        4.7     4.0      8.7     6.7     5.7    12.4       40X   5.25    9.08   1,361
29 Banweol-Gunpo*        1.9      1.6     3.5     2.7     2.3     5.1       292  1.253    6.52      776
30 Yanwhon-Gispo*        2.5      2.1     4.7     3.6     3.1     6.7       27  0.645      6.7      993
31 Giapo-Gaehwa*         3.7     3.1      6.8     5.3     4.5     9.7       44   3.283    10.3      945
32 Choji Bridge          5.3      4.5     9.9     7.6     6.5    14.1       132  0.212       3   4,706
!3 Samcheg-Donihae *     6.6     5.7    12.3      9.5     8.1    17.6       232  1.641    16.2   1,084
34 Yangyang-Sogcho*     10.8     9.2    20.0    15.4    13.1    28.5        302  9.785      17   1,678
35 Sintanjin-Cheongju *   10.4   8.9    19.3    14.9    12.7    27.5        202  3.202    19.8   1,391
36 Cheonan-Seonghwan*    4.6     3.9      8.S     6.6     5.6    12.1       29X 6.443   12.36       983
37 Hongseong-Yean        9.7     8.2    17.9    13.8    11.8    25.6        162   2.55    17.2   1,487
38 Yesan-Sinryeweon      1.1     0.9      2.0     1.5     1.3     2.8       422   0.48     3.2      873
39 Yeongam-Naju*        10.8     9.2    20.1    15.5    13.2    28.7        252   2.69    23.6   1,214
40 SongJeong-Bia *       3.4     2.9      6.3     4.9     4.2     9.1       332  3.197     7.2   1,258
41 Hwasun-Gwangju        5.6     4.8    10.4      8.0     6.8    14.9       142  2.047      10   1,487
42 Yeongcheon-Gogyeong   5.7      4.9    10.6     8.2     7.0    15.2       172  2.768    13.6   1,116
43 Go9yeong-Angang       8.1      6.9    15.1    11.6     9.9    21.5       192  1.275   12.18   1,766
44 Angang-Pohang         7.0     6.0    13.0    15.0      8.5    18.5       182  1.218    6.72   2,753
45 ChmuSSadeung          8.6     7.3    16.0    12.3    10.5    22.8        132  1.M      18.13   1,257
46 Sadeung-Teoncho       3.1     2.7      5.8     4.5     3.8     8.3       142  0.931    10.2      814
47 Yeoncho-Geoje        11.5     9.8    21.3    16.4    14.0    30.4        132  6.348   11.59   2.619
Subtotal for GROUP B   167.7   142.9   310.6   239.6   204.1   443.7          87.081 313.930   1,413
TOTAL for GROUP A+B    257.6   219.4   477.0   368.0   313.5   681.5           107.39  622.25   1,092
1. Upgrading and Widening of National Roads selected for faplementation under the project.
Selected from Group A*   32.3    27.5    59.9    46.2    39.3    85.5             14.08  111.89
Selected from Group B*   72.7    62.0   134.7   103.9    88.5   192.4             55.70  156.50
Selected from Group A,B6  105.0    89.5   194.5   150.1   127.8   277.9           69.77  268.39



- 46 -
KOREA                       Annex 4
Part B
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year          Quarterly         Cumulative         Percentage   Bank
and Quarter             Disbursements      Disbursements       of Total      Profile
ending                              (US$ Million)                     (%)
FY90
Dec 31, 1989                       4.0              4.0              2%
Mar 31, 1990                      10.0             14.0              7%           2%
Jun 30, 1990                      10.0             24.0             12%
FY91
Sep 30, 1990                      15.0             39.0             20%
Dec 31, 1990                      15.0             54.0             27%
Mar 31, 1991                      15.0             69.0             35%          20%
Jun 30, 1991                      15.0             84.0             42%
FY92
Sep 30, 1991                      15.0             99.0             50%
Dec 31, 1991                      15.0            114.0             57%
Mar 31, 1992                      15.0            129.0             65%          56%
Jun 30, 1992                      15.0            144.0             72%
FY93
Sep 30, 1992                      11.0            155.0             78%
Dec 31, 1992                      11.0            166.0             83%
Mar 31, 1993                      11.0            177.0             89%          77%
Jun 30, 1993                      11.0            188.0             94%
FY94
Sep 30, 1993                       6.0            194.0             97%
Dec 31, 1993                       6.0            200.0            100%
Mar 31, 1994                                                                     95%
Jun 30, 1994
FY95                                                                            100%



- 47 -
Annex 5. Pert A
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation. Trainin and Proiect Monitorinj
Land Acquisition and Com9ensation Procedures
1.          The roads to be widened under the project already have the right-
of-way (ROW) established. Approximately 14 sections of roads additional ROW of
about 4.5 million sq.m. will be required. The survey of the land has been
completed and the households affected by the acquisition have been identified.
2.          Acquisition.  Acquisition of land for public purposes is governed
by the "Special Law on Acquisition and Compensation of Lands for Public Use" in
force since December 31, 1975. Under this law, MOO, as the implementing agency,
makes the initial surveys and investigations of the land required, including the
number of families to be displaced, and estimates the value of compensation
payable for the property, relocation and other expenses. As soon as possible
thereafter, MOC retains two or more licenced land evaluators to make an
assessment of the appropriate compensation to be paid to the displaced pers&"s.
These independent valuations are made in accordance with the guidelines framed
under the Law and are based on the evaluator's professional judgement after
considering both market prices and book values based on periodic government
surveys. The average of the independent evaluators assessments forms the basis
for final negotiations with the affected persons. In the majority of cases, the
affected persons will accept the assessments made by the independent evaluators.
Where no agreement is reached, the affected parties are entitled to a hearing
by a committee set up under the Law in MOC. The Minister of Construction acts
as Chairman of the Committee. The general experience is that no more than 10%
of the affected people take thelr cases to this committee, mainly to ask for a
reassessment of property values based on anticipated appreciation due to the
improvement for which the acquisition is being made. In the rare event of the
committee's findings being unacceptable to the parties concerned, recourse is
possible to the courts. These proceedings, which take from 6 to 9 months to
complete, are seen as fair and reasonable by the general public.
3.          Compensation.  As  explained above,  compensation valuations  are
determined by independent professional assessments based on market and book
value. Compensation is payable for both movable and immovable property affected
as well as for loss of crops and other amenities, loss of livelihood (on average
up to three months of estimated lost earnings), loss of rental deposits and
relocation expenses. Compensation is paid to both owners and affected renters.
4.          Relocation.  MOC not  only provides  compensation  to facilitate
relocation but In cases where the number of units to be acquired exceeds 30
within an administrative unit (myeon), undertakes to build alternative housing
through local authorities.
5.          MOC has developed a realistic and satisfactory plan to accomplish
the land acquisition, compensatlon and relocation affecting some 609 families
due to the scheduled work under the project. These costs have been included in
project costs and in the analysis of the economic justLfication of the project.
MOC also has the organizational capacity and experience to successfully acquire
the land without causing undue hardship and social problems while implementing
these important public projects.



s             g.E                    I     l  1   1!W 
-Ss                   'X>ae                 I   (   0g.5@. 
o   o   o   "    t ~"             3 3. j!              44m.3' :
I   t5-      I                          *^g  
N N.         *      
_~~~~          _ i ::a
.   .  .~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



-49-                            Annex 5, Part C
KOREA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Monitoring Indices
Lot Section
Appraisal Estimate Contract Amowt  Work Certified    Share
No.    Nme                 -                 . . .             ............  Compteted
Bit.Won Mil.USS  Sil.Uon Mil.USS  Bit.Won Nil.USS    CX)
GROUP A (upgrading)
I Sucheon-Gaehwa          17.4    24.8
2 Donghae-Oggye            2.2      3.1
3 Oggye-Gangdong           4.6      6.5
4 Gangdong-Gansneung       6.2      8.8
5 Yeoryang-ingye          14.5    20.7
6 Imgye*Donghae           16.9    24.2
7 Idong-Wasuri             9.4    13.4
8 Gimhwa-Damogri           9.8    14.0
9 Damogri-Sachangri        6.2      8.9
10 Ibjang-Jincheon          6.9      9.8
11 Seonghwan-lbjang         5.0      7.2
12 Chilbo-Sannae            6.1     8.7
13 Samsae-G.Ldum           12.1    17.2
14 Gwangyang-Oggog          3.8      5.5
15 Jangheung-Noicheon       4.8     6.8
16 Seoggog-Ssangan          6.9     9.9
17 Jangheung-Naju          6.7      9.6
18 Gigye-Jugjang           9.0    12.8
19 Yeongyang-Jaesan        11.1    15.8
20 Jaesan-yeoondong         7.0    10.0
GROUP B (widening)
21 Jeongog-Seonsdong        8.9    12.7
22 Sw eon-lndeogb eon       9.2    13.1
23 SeonghwanPye tngteg      3.2      4.6
24 Pyeongtaeg-Songtan      12.0    17.1
25 Guangju-Seongnam        12.2    17.4
26 Netaggog-Byeogje        16.1    23.0
27 Byeogje.Euijeongbu      17.1    24.4
*         28 Singat-Yongin            8.7    12.4
29 Banueot-Gunpo            3.5      5.1
30 Yangchon-Gimpo           4.7      6.7
31 Ginpo-Gaehwa             6.8      9.7
32 Choji Bridge             9.9    14.1
33 Saurheg-Donghae         12.3     17.6
34 Yangyang-Sogcho         20.0    28.5
35 SintanJin-Cheongju      19.3    27.5
36  heaon.-Seonghwan        8.5    12.1
37 Hangseong-Yesan         17.9    25.6
38 Yesan-Sinryeweon         2.0      2.8



- 50                            Annex 5, Part C
39 Yeorv-lbJu            20.1    28.7
40 Sorjeong-810           6.3     9.1
41 HumnGtmanju           10.4    14.9
42 Yeor'heon-oogyecn     10.6    15.2
43 G"ogY npAng           15.1    21.5
44  wang-Pohan           13.0    18.5
45 Chuanu-Sadetmg        16.0    22.8
46 SadsIsg-Yecncho        5.8     8.3
47 Yeancho-Geoj.         21.3    30.4
477.0   681.5
Selected from Group A     59.9    85.5
Selected from Grow 8     134.7   192.4
Selected from Group A.D   194.5   277.9



- 50                            Annex_5, Part C
*        39 Yeong inlaju          20.1    28.7
*        40 Songjeong-Ble          6.3     9.1
41 lwasun-Gwanju         10.4    14.9
42 Yeonscheon-Gogyeong    10.6    15.2
43 Gogyeong-Aang         15.1    21.5
44 kVang-Pohang          13.0    18.5
45 Chunga*Sadeung        16.0    22.8
46 Sadetm-Yeoncho         5.8     8.3
47 Yeoncho-Geoje         21.3    30.4
477.0   681.5
Selected from Group A     59.9    85.5
Selected from Group B    134.7   192.4
Selected from Group M+B   194.5   277.9



- 51 -
Annex 6
KOREA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.        Feasibility Study Report for the IBRD Sixth Road Improvement
Project, Korea Consultants International for the Ministry of Construction of
the Republic of Korea, September 1988.
Volume One   General Report
Volume Two   Sub-project Group A Feasibility Studies
Volume Three Sub-project Group B Feasibility Studies
Volume Four  Appendices
Volume Five  Drawings
2.        Korea Highway Maintenance Management Study - Final Report, Samwoo
Engineering/BCEOM-LCPC-KCI for the Ministry of Construction, Republic of
Korea, December 1987
3.        Road Safetv and Design Standards,  Ross  Silcock  Partnership,
April 1988
4.        National Road Safetv Plan, The Prime Minister's Office of the
Republic of Korea, original in Korean, unofficial translation in English.
5.        Various mission RaRers and data.



CHINA               pv  z DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF KOREA                             /     t $
D-TEM. 25Pm (LE.
| P. OP ,IKOREA                                                                           I j.  WwH,nI
.4. xc,pEy       JAPAN   3-i>                           R             ;   t  '-"ta                                                                 3$
KI-i~ ~ ~ 'I-
37'  T.p,b                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
KunAuuq   >  /    '.#7i~~~~~~~~~~ ~~'~K'd"'
_e/. ,1-
C-
uS 2
3$D
- 9,                      RV ,PUBLIC OF KOREA
;TO...IX       ;          'ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
NATiOKAL ROADS WW4IDONG
,J                                                                     mew..'1 1r  ' ' _ NAO4AL ROADS UPGDINC
PiUVOAS flOEU   "             RRST PRTOECt 7.0
COR4SnUICIIO AM  IO   as 4SRWC P101S  9561.
. N    nvaM        n. WAN A tH  PROJCT 1203C
IOAN 222S0                   F  ROT? l CnO
ExmtsswArvs 
EAIONAL RAS (PAVED
24"                                                                                                   -, --  NATION  RDS (LDNPAVED)
PSOVINTE ROADS tPAVED)
_ __- PROVINCE ROADS (UNPAVED)
&MMTORAONAL xtlloR
*    FInSI CQASS PORTS
4    SECOND CLASS POITS
* F s INDUTRIA PORTS
-aOT/PROVINCE ROSJNDAMSS
r 7-   - = >-tIERNATIONAL EBDO ES
4,[-.OSE-<-Y    SRTRS                           C
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                ~       ~~~~ 20CJ  40)    40  NE    to



