Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3061 KO
                    (Road Improvement Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated November 15, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3061 KO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 15, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions  Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
    Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein  set  forth  and  the term "Special Account"
means  the  account  referred  to  in  Section  2.02  (b)  of this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to  lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent  to  the   amount   of   two  hundred  million  dollars
($200,000,000), being the sum  of  withdrawals  of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars  a  special  account in the Korea Exchange
Bank on terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall  be December 31, 1993 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall  pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
    (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the  end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
    (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
Page  3
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate finan-
cial, administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
Page  4
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministry of Finance
         Kwachon
         Republic of Korea
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              MOF                              K 23243
              Kwachon
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                   By /s/ Sohn Myung Hyun
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  5
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works          195,000,000          48%
(2)  Equipment and          5,000,000          100% of foreign
     materials                                 expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 70% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
                          ___________
          TOTAL           200,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  enhance transport
efficiency, expand traffic capacity and increase traffic safety in
the road sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   The paving, upgrading and  widening  of  about 270 km of
          the national road system.
Part B:   The  establishment  of   a  new  maintenance  management
          system, including periodic  maintenance  of about 700 km
          of paved roads.
Page  6
Part C:   Implementation of  selected  aspects  of  the Borrower's
          comprehensive  road  safety  program,  including  safety
          conscious road design,  a hazardous location improvement
          program, and the preparation of road safety guidelines.
Part D:   Training for road sector  development and utilization of
          consultants'  services  for   detailed  engineering  and
          supervision  of  construction,  including  provision  of
          equipment.
                             *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning September 15, 1994
     through   March 15, 2004                   10,000,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment,    multiplied
                                         by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but not                        0.73
     more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                           1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                           Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  7
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Civil works estimated to  cost  the equivalent of $10,000,000
each, or less, and equipment  and  materials may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part C:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost  the  equivalent  of  $10,000,000  or  more  and the first
contract for equipment and materials,  the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $12,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
Page  8
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits into the  Special  Account at such inter-
                vals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special  Account for eligible expenditures.
                All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn by the Bank
                from  the  Loan   Account   under  the  respective
                eligible Categories, and in the respective equiva-
                lent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Alloca-
tion.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan  allocated  to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures  as  the Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
Page  9
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
