Report No. 23647
Report No: i075342 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/04/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: EAST TIMOR      Project ID: P075342
Project: SP-THIRD COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT            Task Team Leader: Gillian
M. Brown
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 28, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 20, 2002     IDA Amount ($m): 1.50 (Special Financing)
Managing Unit: EASES     Sector: SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)         Status: Grant
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the CEP is to reduce poverty and support inclusive
patterns of growth and development. The name of the project, "community
empowerment," is based on the principle that projects will be produced by
communities for community activities. Through strengthening and support
for councils and local groups, the CEP will :
(i) build and reconstruct their basic economic infrastructure (such as
farm-to-market roads, small bridges, irrigation and drainage systems,
clean water, and so on -- as determined by the community, itself);
(ii) support productive local economic activities and social
infrastructure activities;
(iii) pilot a number of carefully designed mechanisms for providing
assistance to disadvantaged groups (widows, orphans, disabled people,
etc.) at the community level;
(iv) provide assistance for the development of district level capacities,
specifically in planning development activities;
(v) support cultural heritage and social reconciliation; and
(vi) support the development of local communications, in particular
popular district level radio, through provision of training and equipment.
I.A.3. Project Description:
There are three components in CEP: Component A - Community Grants,
Component B - Cultural Heritage, and component C - Radio and Television.
Component A has three sub-components: Grants to sub-districts, Widows
and Vulnerable Groups, District Planning and Initiatives. Component B has
sub-components for reconstruction of a National culture and Performance
Center, and also a small grants component.     Component C is a component to
develop radio and television services.
The current grant will only support the following supplementary aspects to
the main project: i) project management, ii) service delivery and capacity
building to councils and communities to assist with the delivery of the
sub-grants already agreed under CEP II, iii) small grants for cultural
activities and oral history collection, iv) managment of the Community
Radio Center, and capacity building for community radio stations. CEP I



and II were approved as Category B.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is being implemented throughout East Timor, channelling grants
to Posto Development Councils established in 62 of the countries 65 posto
(sub-district) in the country. The current population of the country is
estimated as some 800,000 people, the majority being subsistence farmers
living in remote mountain villages. The Village Development Councils
identify and prioritise needs and use the grant funds to address their
priorities. A significant proportion of grants are spent on village
infrastructure projects, including clean water systems, farm access road
improvement projects, bridges and small scale irrigation schemes.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       Yes
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)      Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are no potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible
impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
The government has plans to establish a National Park in the country. If
-2 -



and when this happens, the Environmental Protection Unit will be
approached to help assess and verify village infrastructure projects
located within the park's boundaries.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Safeguards issues related to activities funded under CEP I and II will be
addressed through the following procedures already approved by the Bank:
a negative list of activities including items that may negatively impact
on the environment such as pesticides, explosives, chainsaws and large
fishing boats.
an environment check list and land and asset acquisition form that have to
be completed for each proposal
training in environment impact mitigation and land and asset acquisition
for all field staff.
During preparation the experiences with safeguard procedures will be
evaluated. Based on evaluation, changes will be recommended.
The project is designed to ensure that minority ethnic groups will have
the opportunity to participate fully in the project.     A bigger issue will
be the reintegration of individuals or families who have been in refugee
camps, or ex-combatants and militia, back into the communities.
Discussions have been held with the UNTAET's Human Rights Department to
explore ways in which CEP and the CEP institutions and processes may be
adapted to assist in this process.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
This project draws strongly on participatory methodologies. Project
principles of empowerment and inclusiveness underscore the importance of
participation by the primary beneficiaries. Facilitators are trained to
consult with all members of the community, especially those that normally
do not participate. All community members participate in the election of
their representatives on the councils, and it is these councils that make
the decisions. During the planning stage of the first cycle participatory
planning approaches were developed and tested and the facilitators trained
in them.
All supervision missions undertaken look at the level of participation,
the degree of inclusiveness of the project and the strategies adopted to
include people.   As yet the level of beneficiary participation in
monitoring and evaluating has been slow but during CEP II, methods have
been developed to ensure that this happens such as procedures for
receiving complaints from communities, and participatory assessments.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
- 3-



that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Gillian M. Brown         02/04/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Bruce Harris     02/04/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Glenn S. Morgan 02/04/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Zafer Ecevit     02/04/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



