Report No. PID10898
Project Name                     EAST TIMOR-SP-THIRD COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT...
PROJECT
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Other Social Protection
Project ID                       TPPE75342
Borrower(s)                      EAST TIMOR GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency
Address UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL
ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR
Address: Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Ms. Rosa Vong,
Director of the CEP PMU,
Department of Internal Administration
Tel: (670) 390 321 022
Fax: (670) 390 322 445
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                January 24, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         March 28, 2002
Projected Board Date             March 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Poverty Reduction. The key issue for all work in East Timor is poverty
reduction. Overall, 55.5w of EAst Timor's ppopulation was classified as
poor in 1999, implying that some 500,000 people lived in poverty. The
impact of the destruction and violence after the August 30, 1999
referendum on incomes and poverty has yet to be systematically
quantified. New data collection for this purpose, and to inform the
poverty reduction strategy, is, however, underway. Most of the poor live
in rural areas, and the most remote communities tend also to be amongst
the poorest. An efficient poverty reduction strategy for East Timor will
need to ensure delivery of services and resources to these
difficult-to-reach communities. Local Governance.     The Indonesian
administrative system was top-down and highly centralized. As a result,
political accountabilities were mostly upwards. The government extended
to the village level, with a system of government-paid village
administratiors who had greater loyalty to higher levels of government
than the people they served. Independent East Timor will be unable to
sustain the same number of civil servants and future government
administration is unlikely to go further than the district level. It is
critical to develop links between the local institutions and the civil
service through transparent and accountable processes.Village
Development. The majority of East Timorese live in remote communities
with little or no access to basic services. Experience has shown that
villagers are willing and able to take responsibility for their own
development when provided with the funds to do so although they still need
to be able to access technical services from government sector agencies.



2. Objectives
The objective of the CEP is to reduce poverty and support inclusive
patterns of growth and development. The name of the project, "community
empowerment," is based on the principle that projects will be produced by
communities for community activities. Through the strengthening of, and
support for development councils and local groups, the CEP will:(i) build
and reconstruct their basic economic infrastructure (such as
farm-to-market roads, small bridges, irrigation and drainage systems,
clean water, and so on -- as determined by the community, itself); (ii)
support productive local economic activities and social infrastructure
activities; (iii) pilot a number of carefully designed mechanisms for
providing assistance to disadvantaged groups (widows, orphans, disabled
people, etc.) at the community level;(iv) provide assistance for the
development of district level capacities, specifically in planning
development activities;(v) support cultural heritage and social
reconciliation; and(vi) support the development of local communications,
in particular community level radio, through provision of training and
equipment.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
There are two' key factors that provide the rationale for Bank
involvement.   First, the Bank has an incomparable body of worldwide
expertise in implementing community-driven investment funds. In East Asia
alone, the Bank has experience with lending projects that strengthen local
governance and support village development - including in post-conflict
areas- in four countries. Exchanges between the teams in the different
countries will provided excellent transfer of experience opportunities.
Second, the role of the Bank in the management of the TFET funds places it
in a unique position to work not only with different sectors of
government, but also with other donors in the community development sector
as lessons are learned and are transformed into an institutionalized
approach to local government in the future. A recent review of community
development, coordinated by the Bank, involved 25 people, of whom 80- were
Timorese, from government, donor agencies, and international and national
NGOs.
4. Description
The current grant is the third grant for the Community Empowerment
Project. The project is comprised of three components: Component A -
Community Grants, Component B - Cultural Heritage, and component C - Radio
and Television. Component A has three sub-components: Grants to
sub-districts, Widows and Vulnerable Groups, District Planning and
Initiatives. Component B has sub-components for reconstruction of a
National Culture and Performance Center, and also a small grants
component.   Component C is a component to develop community radio
services.
A. COMMUNITY GRANTS *Grants to Sub-districts:
i) capacity building for village and sub-district councils;
ii) grants to sub-districts to support activities for physical
infrastructure, economic activities, social welfare through sub-grants and
credits to communities; and
iii) a team of consultants to provide technical, information, and training
services to communities, and to monitor and manage the project.
* Highly Vulnerable Groups
i) Grants to sub-districts earmarked for use by highly vulnerable groups
-2 -



or community-based groups wanting to provide assistance to them;
ii) Technical assistance and monitoring team
* District Planning and Initiatives
i) Support for training, communication and coordination activities in each
district; and
ii) District initiatives grant for district activities identified by forum
including council members
B. CULTURAL HERITAGE COMPONENT
* Management of the Culture Center
* Reconstruction of the building for the National Performance and culture
Center; and
* Small culture grants
i) Sub-grants for artists and activities at the culture center;
ii) Collection and archiving of oral history;
iii) Village grants for cultural activities; and
iv) management team
C. RADIO AND TV
i) establishment of a community radio support center;
ii) training and equipment for district reporters (completed under CEP
II); and
iii) training and equipment for establishment of community radio stations
5. Financing
Total                                    ( US$m)
BORROWER                                    0
SPECIAL FINANCING                         1.5
Total Project Cost                        1.5
6. Implementation
Overall coordination is with the Department of Internal Administration in
the East Timorese Public Administration (ETPA), with direct responsibility
for implementation through the Project Management Unit (PMU). The
Director of the PMU reports directly to the Minister for Internal
Administration. A governing board of the National Cultural Heritage Trust
has been formed which oversees the Culture Center (Uma fukun), and the
culture activities under CEP. The manager of the Community Radio Center
reports directly to the Project Director, while the community radio
stations will be owned and operated by the communities. Management of the
project was handed to the Timorese team in November 2000. Component A:
The recent change in emphasis of Component A to one of strengthening of
the councils, which is supported by CEP III necessitates a change in the
structure of the team. Also , now that facilities are available outside
Dili, it would be more efficient to move from the current Dili-focused
management structure to one that is decentralized to region and district
level. The new structure will maintain core administrative and financial
management in Dili, while technical, communications, and training teams
that provide support services to councils and community groups will be
established under regional and district coordinators. The changes will
take place in the first few months of 2002.Component B: A Culture Board
was formed in CEP I and has artists, performers, and representatives of
the church, women's organizations, and other relevant groups in it. The
Culture Board meets regularly and appointed a managment team in April
2001. The management team reports to the Culture Board on all their
activities including those funded by sources outside of CEP, and
- 3-



administratively regarding the CEP-funded activities to the Project
Director.Component C: The manager of the Community Radio Center manages
all aspects of the component and reports to the Project Director. The
community radio stations will be managed by community boards, called
Kliburs, in the districts, who will also be the main decision-making body
for the culture small grants program.
7. Sustainability
Community Grant and Local Governance Structures: The first aspect of
sustainability is that of the local governance structures strengthened
under CEP. At a workshop of council members, traditional leaders, and
national Timorese leaders, in September 2001, there was general agreement
that some form of village and sub-district councils were needed in the
future, although the composition and role of the councils may need to be
redefined from the current defninition in UNTAET regulation 13/2000.
On-going discussions through the consultations for the national
Consitiution, and for the preparation of the national development plans,
are expected to help identify changes that need to be made.     Further
discussion on the relationship between councils and traditional leaders,
and between councils and government, need to take place. Also there needs
to be decisions on the modus operandi of the councils, including, for
example, whether there will be some form of compensation for council
members. The second aspect, is the sustainability of a financial fund
strream directly to the communities. Several different models have been
costed and will be discussed over the next few months with government and
donors. These models include options for i) allocations for both
community grants and the supporting management and service delivery teams
from the national budget, ii) funding for both the grants and support
teams from donors, and iii) some combination of funding from the national
budget and donors.The third aspect of sustainability, is the
sustainability of the activities themselves. To improve sustainability of
the activities in the third cycle some slowing down of the delivery of
grants is necessary now in order to maximize the opportunity to learn from
experience and train technical staff, village technical assistants and
community and council members, in technical aspects; and the financial
management units in the management of revolving funds.Cultural Heritage
Component: Sustainability of the activities begun under the CEP Cultural
Heritage component depends upon two factors: commitment and longevity of
the management entity, and development of a robust financial base outside
of the TFET grant for CEP. Both of these factors are already well
underway. From the outset, the motivating force behind the Cultural
Center the Uma Fukun Timor Loro'sae has been Timorese. The local
enthusiasm and commitment to the cultural heritage activities are such
that in the first phase of CEP, when only a small amount of TFET grant
funds was available to support early cultural activities, Timorese
individuals and groups undertook a broad range of performances,
exhibitions, and events at the designated Cultural Center site without
funding from CEP.    The Culture Board  is working with UNESCO to help
build a proper endowment fund that will support the wide range of
activities envisioned after the CEP seed monies are spent. Already,
significant contributions have been made by the Japanese, Portuguese, and
South Korean governments. Community Radio Component: Radio UNTAET has
already established a District Reporters Desk in Dili to coordinate and
support the district reporters. They have included requests for continued
funding of both the reporters and the Dili desk in their proposals to
- 4 -



other donors.    For community radio, it is assumed that those involved
will be volunteers capable of raising donations or getting sponsorships to
keep the radio on the air.    Costs can be kept to a minimum, for example
by using cheaper equipment and by broadcasting only during peak listening
hours, but there will always be operational costs that needs to be
addressed. Several donors and government departments have expressed
interest in posting information bulletins through the community radio
stations for a fee, or for buying air time to broadcast longer information
programs.    Another viable solution is to set a regulatory framework for
community radio which allows the ability to generate revenue through
commercial advertising. Selling advertising space between, or even during,
programs should be considered as one possible means of raising revenues.
The composition of the management boards and their ability to run the
station and maintain the level of interest and participation are key.
Their decisions regarding the running of the station and its programming
must be democratic and transparent. Access to continuous training in
management reporting and technical skills are important and an incentive
mechanism to avoid high staff turnover. Government subsidies for
community radio broadcasters might be appropriate as long as the state's
control of content is limited by law.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Several lessons have been learned in the initial implementation of the
Community Empowerment Project, justifying the need for design changes of
additional components during this second phase of CEP:Role and Capacity of
Councils: The role of the councils is unclear to the communities as well
as the council members themselves. The capacity of the councils,
especially the women members to be effective in decision-making meetings
is weak. To address this, more emphasis will be placed on capacity
building for council members and for increasing the understanding of the
councils roles within the communities. A special program of capacity
building for women council members has been proposed and several other
donor agencies and the local women's organizations are keen to assist.
Accountability and transparency: One of the key challenges so far in CEP
has been to develop an understanding of accountability within
communities. Communities should be able to hold elected representatives,
or those acting on their behalf, accountable to them, however this can
only happen if they have: i) full access to information about decisions
and use of funds, ii) a choice of channels for making complaints, and iii)
a complaints investigation and resolution process. The next stage of CEP
will focus on developing each of these.Improved access to technical
services: The lack of technical assistance within the country proved to
be a major constraint in the earlier stages of CEP. In the next cycle of
grants there will be a much greater emphasis on coordinating with
techncial department, NGOs and other projects, in order to make effective
use of limited technical skills in the country. Donor Coordination and
Sectoral Approach:. Although different projects have their own objectives
and sometimes different policies are justified, however, there is a need
to bring project policies and practices more inline with each other,
through better project coordination. Donor coordination on community
development is needed to ensure that communities and decision-making
bodies are provided with information, processes, and procedures that give
them the capacity to be more involved in development planning and
implementation.
-5-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no major environmental risks associated
with this project. Individual project activities are small and do not
involve environmentally damaging technologies. Minor environmental risks
include those normally associated with community-based infrastructure.
Examples include tertiary road cut and fill, small holder agricultural
improvement, and discharges from village cottage industries developed
through the project. These will be mitigated through the project's
negative list, and through normal environmental engineering practices that
will be built into the project manual. On-going training of technical and
sub-district facilitators will include environmental management.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Gillian M. Brown
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-5517
Fax: 202-522-1666
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2002
- 6 -



