                                                                 SCANNED
         09 JUL M2

---------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------

                                              TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
                                                  GRANT NUMBER TF051103




        Trust Fund for East Timor
            Grant Agreement

      (Third Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project)

                                    between



                              EAST TIMOR


                                      and


          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

            acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor




                     Dated I 'J'^                 , 2002
                                                    TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
                                                        GRANT NUMBER TF051103




            TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT


         AGREEMENT, dated         To    2002, between EAST TIMOR (the Recipient)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVPNT ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as
trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor.

         WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution
No. IDA99-5 of the Executive Directors of the Association, the Executive Directors
established the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency
reconstruction and recovery program in East Timor and appointed the Association as
trustee of the TFET; and

        (B) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance
from the resources of the TFET for funding the Project; and

        WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

        NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


                                       ARTICLE I

                            General Conditions; Definitions

        Section 1.01 The "General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East
Timor Grant Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated May 15,
2000 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

        Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
                                             -2-

         (a) "Affected Persons" means persons who, solely on account of and as a
direct result of the physical implementation of the activities under the Project, had or
would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, interest in
any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and "Affected
Person" means individually all those who qualify as Affected Persons;

        (b) "Community Radio Center" means the center established to provide
technical services to community radio stations;

        (c)    "Conselho"   means a development council;

         (d)    "Conselho do Posto" means a development council at the sub-district level
as established in accordance with Regulation 13/2000;

         (e)    "Conselho do Suco" means a development council at the village level as
established in accordance with Regulation 13/2000;

          (f)   "Dili Annex to the Project Manual" means the Annex setting forth the
amendments to the Project Manual required to include references to the villages and Sub-
districts of the District of Dili for purposes of Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project;

        (g) "Financial Monitoring Report" means each report prepared in accordance
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

        (h) "Fiscal Year" means the Recipient's fiscal year commencing July 1 and
ending June 30;

         (i)   "Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework" means the
Framework prepared by the Recipient, in agreement with the Trustee, for the provision of
compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement and in the Project Manual, and as such Framework may be amended from time
to time in agreement with the Trustee;

        (j)    "National Performance and Culture Center" means the Una Fukun in
W
       (k)    "Project Management Unit" means the unit within the Ministry of Internal
Administration responsible for the coordination of Project activities and for the
implementation of the financial management action plan;
                                             -3-

        (1)    "Project Management Sub-unit" means any of the units described in
paragraphs 8 (a) and 9 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

        (m) "Project Manual" means the Project Manual dated October 2000, to assist
the Project staff, the Conselho do Suco, the Conselho do Posto and Borrowers in the
implementation of Sub-projects under Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project through the
description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, reporting
requirements, the Project Performance Indicators, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework, environmental criteria applicable to Sub-project design, maintenance
provisions for works to be carried out under the Sub-project and criteria for the selection of
Sub-projects; and includes as annexes the Community Radio Manual, the Cultural Heritage
Support Manual, the District Planning and Initiatives Manual, the Highly Vulnerable
Groups Support Manual, and the Dili Annex, as such Project Manual and its annexes may
be amended from time to time in agreement with the Trustee;
       (n) "Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to
measure the Recipient's performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

        (o) "Project Sub-district" means a Sub-district selected by the Recipient for
participation in the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

      (p)      "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;

        (q) "Sub-Grant" means a grant made available by the Recipient out of the
proceeds of the Grant for a Sub-project under Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project; and

        (r)   "Sub-project" means a specific investment project carried out under Part A.2
and A.3 of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-Grant.


                                        ARTICLE II

                                         The Grant

        Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount
equal to one million five hundred thousand Dollars ($1,500,000).

        (b) The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose pursuant to
the Resolutions referred to in Whereas (A) of this Agreement.
                                            -4-


         Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for
amounts paid (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on account of
a Sub-Grant made under Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for a Sub-project and in respect of which the withdrawal
from the Grant Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for Parts A.3, B, C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant.

         (b) The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.


                                      ARTICLE III

                                Execution of the Project

        Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through the Recipient's Ministry for Internal Administration with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
engineering, environmental, financial and social practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

        (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and
except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

         Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and for Sub-projects and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

        Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
                                            5-

        (a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and furnish to
the Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan to ensure the
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and

        (b) afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Recipient on said plan.


                                       ARTICLE IV

                                 Financial Conditions

        Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

        (b)     The Recipient shall:

                (i.)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
        Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
        accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
        independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;

                 (ii)    furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not
        later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by
        said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have
        reasonably requested; and

                (iii)   furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said
        records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time
        reasonably request.

        (c)      For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant
Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of
expenditure, the Recipient shall:

                (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
        paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

                (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the
        audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant
                                            -6-

        Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
        other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

                (iii)    enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records;
        and

                 (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
        audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit
        contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Financial
        Monitoring Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
        year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
        preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

        Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient's progress reporting
obligations set out in paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall
prepare and furnish to the Trustee a financial monitoring report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Trustee, which:

                (i)     sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both
       cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds
       provided under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned
       uses of such funds;

                (ii)    describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
       cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances
       between the actual and planned Project implementation; and

                (iii)    sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the
       end of the period covered by said report.

         (b)     The first financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Trustee not
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each financial monitoring
report shall be furnished to the Trustee not later than 45 days after each subsequent
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.


                                       ARTICLE V

                               Effectiveness, Termination

        Section 5.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the effectiveness
of this Agreement, namely, that the Recipient has adopted a Financial Management
                                           -7-

Manual acceptable to the Trustee, in accordance with paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

        Section 5.02. If the Grant Agreement shall not have entered into effect ninety
(90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Grant Agreement and all obligations of
the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the Trustee, after consideration of the
reasons for the delay, shall establish a later date for the purposes of this Section. The
Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.


                                     ARTICLE VI

                      Representative of the Recipient; Addresses

        Section 6.01. The Minister for Internal Administration is designated as
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General
Conditions.

        Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

        For the Recipient:

              Ministry for Internal Administration
              East Timor Public Administration
              Edificio 5
              Rua Infante Enrique
              Dili; East Timor


        For the Trustee:

              International Development Association
              1818 H Street, N.W.
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              United States of America

              Cable address:            Telex:                       Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                    248423 (MCI) or            (202) 477-6391
               Washington, D.C.           64145 (MCI)
                                            -8-

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Dili and in Sydney, as of the day and year first above written.



                        EAST TIMOR




                        By                                           ^p

                                                           Authorized Representative



                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           as Trustee for the Trust Fund in East Timor




                        By
                                                           Authorized Representative
                                                                                                   January 14, 2002
Drs. Anshan Ritonga



                                                                                                      Attachment II

                                                 Special Account


        For the purposes of this Attachment:

       (a) the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the
Annex to this Letter Agreement;

        (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant;
and

         (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$35,000 to be
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Attachment.

2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.

3.      After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

        (a) The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.

        (b) (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

              (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account
under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.

4.     For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.




       O P.O Box 1324/JKT, Jakarta 10013 Q Telex · IBRDIA 60086 0 Headquarters: The World Bank, Washington DC, USA





   Drs. Anshari Ritonga                                     10                                          January 14, 2002



   5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be
   required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

          (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be
   made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;

           (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time
   specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports
   required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records
   and accounts for the Special Account;

            (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in
   whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to
   the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or

          (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the
   amount of the Authorized Allocation.

   Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant
   shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further
   withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
   such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
   utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

   6.       (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special
   Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
   this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall,
   promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
   request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
   an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
   Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
   shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
   case may be.

           (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the
   Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
   Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.




         El P.O. Box 13241JKT, Jakarta 10013 ® Telex IBRDIA 60086   a Headquarters. The World Bank, Washington DC, USA





                                                        9-

                                                SCHEDULE1

                                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant

             1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
             proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and
             the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:


                                                    Amount of the
                                                    Grant Allocated         % of
                                                    (Expressed in           Expenditures
                Category                               Dollars)             to be Financed

             (1) Sub-Grants                               200,000           100% of Sub-Grant
                                                                            amount disbursed

             (2) Goods (including                                           100% of foreign
                 transportation) under:                                     expenditures, 100% of
                                                                            local expenditures
                 (a) Part B of the Project                   23,000         (ex-factory cost), and
                                                                            90% of local expendi-
   (b) Part C of the Project
35,000                                                                      tures for other items
                                                                            procured locally

             (3) Civil works under                           25,000           100%
                 Part C of the Project

             (4) Incremental operating costs              188,000             100%

             (5) Consultants'                           1,029,000             100%
                 services and training


             TOTAL                                      1,500,000
                                             - 10-


2.      For the purposes of this Schedule:

        (a)      the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of East Timor for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of East Timor; provided, however, that for
purposes of this definition, the Dollar shall be deemed the currency of a country other
than that of East Timor;

       (b)      the term "local expenditures" means expenditures other than foreign
expenditures; and

         (c)      the term "Incremental operating costs" means expenditures for: (i) bank
costs relating to the Special Account, (ii) operation and maintenance of Project vehicles
and equipment, (iii) expenditures for transportation and communication of Project staff,
and (iv) expenditures for utilities, supplies and consumables for the PMU office in Dili,
the offices of the service delivery teams in each District, and the office of the
Community Radio Center and of the National Performance and Culture Center; but
excluding staff salaries.

3.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made under the Grant in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement; (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) unless and
until the Dili Annex to the Project Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted;
and (c) payments made for expenditures under Categories (2) (b) and (3) unless and until
a draft regulation, acceptable to the Trustee, for the establishment of the Community
Radio Center as a legal entity, has been submitted to the Council of Ministers for
approval.

4.      The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Sub-Grants; (b) goods and
works costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) incremental operating
costs; (d) training; and (e) contracts for the employment of consulting fums valued at
less than $50,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals
valued at less than $25,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.

5.       If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the
Trustee for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the
portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
                                            -11-

                                      SCHEDULE2

                                Description of the Project

        The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in reducing poverty and
supporting inclusive patterns of growth and development.

        The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives.

Part A: Community Sub-Grants

1.       Strengthening the capacity of villages, Conselho do Suco and Conselho do Posto
in the planning and implementation of Sub-projects through the provision of technical
assistance, training, and information dissemination activities.

2.      Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects in villages in Sub-districts of
the District of Dili through the provision of Sub-grants to the relevant Conselho do Suco.

3.       Carrying out of social welfare programs in villages in Sub-districts of the District
of Dili through the provision of Sub-Grants to the relevant Conselho do Suco.

Part B: Cultural Heritage

        Strengthening the management team of the National Performance and Culture
Center through the provision of technical assistance and training.

Part C: Community Radio Stations

         Strengthening community communication and information through: (i) the
provision of technical assistance, equipment and training to community radio stations;
(ii) the rehabilitation of buildings to house community radio stations; and (iii) the
provision of technical assistance and training to the Community Radio Center to support
the network of community radios.

Part D: Project Management Unit

        Strengthening the Project Management Unit through the provision of technical
assistance and training.



                The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
                                           -12-

                                     SCHEDULE 3

                        Procurement and Consultants' Services

 Section I.    Procurement of Good and Works

Part A: General

         Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Trustee in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this
Schedule.

Part B: Procurement Procedures

 1.      International Shopping

        Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

2.       National Shonnin

        Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.       Direct Contractin

        Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000 equivalent, and which must be procured from a
particular supplier due to the lack of alternative local suppliers, may, with the Bank's
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.

4.      Procurement of Small Works

        Except as provided in paragraph 6 of this Section, works estimated to cost less
than $25,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
                                           -13-

description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete
the contract successfully.

5.      Community Participation

        Goods and works required for Parts A.2, A.3 and C (ii) of the Project may be
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.

Part C: Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions

1.      Procurement Planning

         Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project (other than Part A.2, A.3 and C
(ii) of the Project) shall be furnished to the Trustee for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Trustee, and with the provisions of
said paragraph 1.

2.      Prior Review

        With respect to each contract procured in accordance with paragraph 4 above
and the first contract in each District estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.

3.      Post Review

       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.   Emolovment of Consultants

Part A: General

        Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section N of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
                                            14-

Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection

         Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto,
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and
cost-based selection of consultants.

Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

        Least-cost Selection

        Services for auditing shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications

       Services for training under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

3.      Individual Consultants

        Services which are estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract,
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D: Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants

        Selection Planning

         Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Trustee
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall be
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the
Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.      Prior Review

       (a) With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
                                           -15-

paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

         (b) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Trustee
for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval
shall have been given.

3.      Post Review

       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth. in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
                                            -16-

                                      SCHEDULE4

                                Implementation Program

1.       The Recipient shall maintain until the completion of the Project, the Project
Management Unit responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project, headed by a
qualified and experienced Director and with competent staff in adequate numbers, all
with terms of reference, qualification and experience acceptable to the Trustee, and who
shall be employed, except for the Director, in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

        In carrying out Part A. 1 of the Project, the Recipient shall:

         (a) inform the district administrator of Dili of the appointment of district
Project teams for purposes of the Project by not later than June 30, 2002; and

        (b) issue to the Project Sub-districts by not later than June 30, 2002, public
information aimed at disclosing to villagers and their representatives as well as district
council members, all administrative, financial, environmental, procedural and technical
aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and implementation of Sub-
projects; and make such information, including the Project Manual, freely available for
consultation at the sub-district office.

3.      In carrying out Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project, the Recipient shall cause Sub-
projects in Project Sub-districts to be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to
the Trustee including the following:

         (a) each Sub-project proposed under Part A.2 of the Project shall be a public
infrastructure investment project that is technically, financially and environmentally
viable, and economically justified by the number of people benefiting from it;

        (b) each Sub-project proposed under Part A.3 of the Project shall be a project
or an activity that is technically and economically justified;

       (c) the estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the amount of
Sub-Grants approved in the relevant Project Sub-district does not exceed the aggregate
of:

               (i)    $30,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 25,000 or less;

               (ii)   $40,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 30,000 or less
                      but more than 25,000;
                                            - 17 -

              (iii)   $50,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is 35,000 or less
                      but more than 30,000; and

              (iv)    $60,000 for Project Sub-Districts whose population is more than
                      35,000; and

        (d) no Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose; (ii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous
goods (including asbestos and pesticides), arms or drugs, (iii) include the financing of
government salaries, (iv) include civil works for government administration or religious
purposes, (v) include civil works on buildings where ownership is disputed or unknown;
(vi) include renting of buildings where ownership is disputed or unknown, or (vii)
include financing of land acquisition.

4.      In carrying out Part A of the Project the Recipient shall ensure that, prior to the
carrying out of works under a Sub-project, the district Project team has made available to
communities or Con.selhos technical assistance to complete a technical review of such
Sub-project and shall have confirmed the following:

        (a)   the criteria described in paragraph 3 of this Schedule have been complied
with;

        (b) necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been
obtained, including a Sub-Grant and any voluntary contributions to be made by villagers;

        (c) appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected
Persons have been considered in the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the
Project Manual;

        (d) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework has been
complied with, and, if applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been
completed and are satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Framework
and paragraph 7 of this Schedule;

         (e) a Sub-project agreement has been entered into and an implementation plan
for the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Manual; and

        (f) a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the Sub-
project has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Trustee and has
been included in the Sub-project agreement, which shall include assignment of
maintenance responsibilities in the respective village, the preparation of training
                                            - 18-

programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the village, and the identification
of available sources of financing to carry out such programs.

5.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, through the Project
Management Unit:

        (a) cause each Conselho do Suco to carry out the Sub-projects, selected in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this Schedule, in accordance with the Project Manual
and the respective Sub-project agreements;

        (b) ensure that, until completion of the Project, the Project Manual is made
available to the facilitators as well as district Project teams and applied in the carrying
out of Sub-projects; and

       (c) periodically update the Project Manual, if needed, with the prior
agreement of the Trustee.

6.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause the Project
Management Unit to ensure that:

         (a) each Sub-project is reviewed by the facilitators upon completion and that a
certificate of Sub-project completion shall be issued by the district Project team upon a
finding of satisfactory Sub-project completion in accordance with the Project Manual
and approved designs; and

       (b) if there is a finding of unsatisfactory completion of a Sub-project the
Conselho do Posto shall recover the amounts disbursed under the respective Sub-Grant.

7.      In carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall:

         (a) take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of
villagers and to avoid the displacement of said villagers;

        (b) where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers is
unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the village shall, before carrying
out the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to
such villagers, compensation in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework; and
                                           - 19 -

        (c) in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by a
Sub-project:

              (i)    prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Land Acquisition
                     and Resettlement Policy Framework and furnish such plan to the
                     Trustee for approval; and

              (ii)   prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all Affected
                     Persons shall have been compensated in accordance with the
                     provisions of said plan.

8.      The Recipient shall, for purposes of Part B of the Project:

        (a)      maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project Management sub-
Unit with competent staff in adequate numbers, including a Manager, all with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Trustee; and

        (b)     take all steps required to establish the National Performance and Culture
Center as an independent legal entity by December 31, 2002.

9.      The Recipient shall, for purposes of Part C of the Project:

        (a) maintain until the completion of the Project, a Community Radio Center,
with competent staff in adequate numbers, including a Manager, all with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Trustee, such Center to be the
Project Management sub-unit for purposes of Part C of the Project; and

       (b) take all steps required to establish such Community Radio Center as an
independent legal entity by December 31, 2002.

10.     The Recipient shall:

         (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;

        (b)      prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and furnish
to the Trustee, on or about December 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date; and
                                           20 -

        (c)      review with the Trustee, by March 1, 2003, or such later date as the
Trustee shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Trustee's views on the matter.

11.    The Recipient shall adopt a financial management manual, acceptable to the
Trustee, to assist financial management units and treasurers at the sub-district and
Conselho levels in the implementation of financial management procedures.
                                            -21-

                                      SCHEDULE5

                            Project Performance Indicators

                                                    Fiscal Year   Fiscal Year
                                                    2002/2003      2003/2004
Outcome Indicators

Number of activities undertaken by Conselhos with        10           20
funding from non-CEP sources
Number of newspaper articles, radio programs, and        10            5
other media focusing on Project activities
Number of cultural events undertaken at Uma Fukun        12            6
Number of monthly visitors to Uma Fukun                 100           100
Amount of additional funding leveraged by            $100,000       $50,000
management team
Number of requests for assistance made to the            24            12
Community Radio Center
Amount of additional funding leveraged by the         $25,000       $25,000
Community Radio Center
Output indicators

Number of training activities carried out for        15 in each    2 in each
government and Conselhos                              district      district
Number of workshops implemented for government       4 in each         -


and Conselhos                                         district
Number of male beneficiaries in Dili                   2,000         1,000
Number of female beneficiaries in Dili                 2,000         1,000
Amount of Sub-grants disbursed in Dili               $150,000       $50,000
Percentage of approved activities completed             50%          100%
(cumulative) in Dili
Number of information boards maintained and              20            20
regularly updated in Dili
Number of community radio volunteers trained in          20            20
operations and maintenance, programming, and
management
Number of technical training activities               3 in each     1 in each
                                                       district      district
                                             _22_




                                       SCHEDULE 6

                                      Special Account

        For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

       (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

        (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.     After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

         (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Recipient shall have requested.

        (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall
                    furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.

              (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall
                    furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                    payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                    basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the
                    Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the
                                           - 23 -

                    Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested
                    and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
                    to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee
                    from the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, and
                    in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
                    said documents and other evidence.

4.      For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the
Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Trustee such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

        (a) if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

         (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

        (c) if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

         (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

         Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.     (a) If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
                                          -24 -

pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

         (b) If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund
to the Trustee such outstanding amount.

        (c) The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

        (d) Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
