 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14814

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 08/31/2015

               Country: Central African Republic
             Project ID: P122099                                                   Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: C.A.R. Community         Project Costs (US$M):                          8.6                 7.6
                         Reintegration Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                         0                    0
      Sector Board:        Social Development         Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                 05/05/2011
                                                                Closing Date:             04/30/2012          04/30/2014
          Sector(s):       General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (27%); Other social services (20%); Law and
                           justice (19%); Agro-industry; marketing; and trade (17%); Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and
                           Highways (17%)
         Theme(s):         Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (37%); Rural services and infrastructure
                           (37%); Micro; Small and Medium Enterprise support (18%); Social safety nets (8%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:      ICR Review                       Group:
                                             Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Ramachandra Jammi Christopher David               IEGPS1
                                             Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective was "to improve access to basic social infrastructure and economic opportunities
for local communities in the targeted areas of the Member Country’s [Central African Republic] northern territories,
with a focus on youth and youth associated with armed violence" (Grant Agreements p.4, the Emergency Project
Paper (EPP) p.17).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

Component 1: ACTED community recovery in Ouham -Pende (appraised US$2.0 million; actual US$1.56 million) was
to be implemented by Agence d’Aide à la Coopération Technique Et au Développement (ACTED) and included
rehabilitation of infrastructure including 50 kilometers of road, capacity building of supported communities and
reconciliation activities.

Component 2: IRC community recovery in Ouham -Pende and Nana Gribizi (appraised US$3.12 million; actual
US$2.91 million) was to be implemented by the International Rescue Committee (IRC) and included rehabilitation of
infrastructure, provision of agricultural support, in particular technical assistance, seeds and tools to improve
livelihoods, small business support, rehabilitation of water points and wells, training and capacity building.

Component 3: Premiere Urgence community recovery in Ouham -Pende (appraised US$1.7 million; actual US$1.7
million) was to be implemented by Premiere Urgence and included rehabilitation of infrastructure including 40
kilometers of road, rehabilitation of Paoua market and five grain storage buildings, provision of seeds and tools,
provision of micro-projects and capacity building combined with reconciliation.

Component 4: Solidarités International community recovery in Ouham (appraised US$1.78 million; actual US$1.48
million) was to be implemented by Solidarité International and included provision of seeds and tools, support to
income generating activities, rehabilitation of agricultural infrastructure, training and support to dialogue.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost and Financing : The project was financed through the Transitional Demobilization and Reintegration
Program (TDRP), which is a Bank- administered multi-donor trust fund. The total project cost was US$7.64 million at
closure, slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of US$8.60 million.

Borrower contribution : No Recipient's contribution was planned, none realized.

Dates: The original implementation period of one year was extended twice by a total of two years as a result of
implementation delays and worsening security situation. During the first project restructuring on April 25, 2012 , the
closing date was extended by 14 months to June 30, 2013. The results framework was revised, including outcome
indicators (see section 10 below). The closing date was further extended by 10 months to April 30, 2014 during the
second project restructuring on June 20, 2013. There was a coup d’état on March 24, 2013 in the country, and the
World Bank evacuated the staff and temporary suspended the disbursements until September 2013.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At appraisal, due to numerous conflicts in the northern CAR (such as between local armed groups and the state
authorities, between sedentary farmers and itinerant pastoralists, clashing over land and grazing rights, and villagers
and bandits), one out of four people reported feeling unsafe, while 20% of the population suffered from physical
attacks and four out of five people had to flee their home (ERR, Annex 1). Violence, crime and general lawlessness
remained obstacles to recovery and reconstruction efforts. The project development objective was consistent with the
Government's focus on restoration of security, consolidation of peace, conflict prevention, and rebuilding the economy
as reflected in Central African Republic’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers for the periods of 2008-2010 and
2011-2015. The project objective was relevant to the Joint Country Partnership Strategy between the World Bank and
the African Development Bank FY2009-2012, which aimed at developing the basic socio-economic infrastructure,
through, inter alia, community support and development, and specifically mentioned the support to community
initiatives in northern areas and creation of jobs as part of peace-building efforts led by the Government and UNDP. A
new Central African Republic Country Engagement Note was being prepared at the time of completion of the ICR and
this Review.


b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial.
The project was designed to create jobs and support individual livelihoods and community-based initiatives in three
prefectures of the northern Central African Republic (CAR), where there was a high concentration of ex-combatants,
youth associated with militia and banditry, and youth-at-risk. The project's investments in the provision of basic rural
infrastructure (roads, water, etc ) and agriculture development with additional elements of community reconciliation
and conflict management were intended to improve access to basic social infrastructure and economic opportunities
for local communities, in particular targeting youth.

The project was designed with four components to be implemented by four international non-governmental
organizations. Due to weak government capacity in the northern areas of the country, the Bank invoked Operational
Policy 8.0 (section 9), under which alternative implementation arrangements can be used in exceptional
circumstances (EPP, Annex 7). Given the difficult and unstable post-conflict conditions in the project areas, the design
should have considered a longer implementation period than the original duration of one year.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
To improve access to basic social infrastructure and economic opportunities for local communities in the targeted
areas of the Central African Republic northern territories , with a focus on youth and youth associated with armed
violence .

Modest*.
* IEG has chosen not to undertake a split evaluation as the changes to the original outcome indicators (several were dropped) did not
make a material difference to the achievement of the project against the project development objective.

Outputs

ACTED:
      Four out of the planned five markets were built (Kambakota market was not built due to insecurity). All four
       markets, including Béboura market that was temporary closed due to conflict, were operational at project
       completion.
      One slaughterhouse and one bus station were constructed as planned.
      One water point was constructed to benefit the communes of Nana Bakassa, Kouki, Batangafo, Paoua, and
       Begouladje. Eight boreholes that had been planned were not constructed due to delays, looting, and security
       issues.
      Only 15% of the 50 km road rehabilitation was completed due to violent conflict.
      26 peace committees were established but were not operational. As a result of the project suspension and
       evacuation of the ACTED team, the training on project management, human rights, and sustainable development
       was not realized.

IRC:
      12 economic and market facilities were constructed in Bocaranga and Kaga Bandoro as per target and were
       functioning at project completion.
      Training was provided to 1,026 community leaders (target was 240).
      Small business and agriculture support, including provision of seeds and tools, were partially completed.
      One borehole was constructed.

Premiere Urgence
      39 km of roads were rehabilitated in the Ouham Pendé region, exceeding the target of 20 km.
      3 markets, latrines, 5 storage buildings were rehabilitated as targeted.
      Seeds and tools were distributed as targeted to 500 households.
      81 local producer, women, and youth groups were formed, exceeding the targeted 35.
      Technical training was provided on farming activities and conflict management, including training of local leaders
       and maintenance committees.
      No data was available on community water points constructed (target was 10).

Solidarités International
      5.5 tons of seeds and 3,984 tools (hoes and machetes) were distributed (no target specified).
      55 producer groups were formed, against the target of 25.
      Only one veterinary depot was completed out of the planned 65 economic infrastructure sub-projects, due to the
       deteriorating security situation..
      Training was carried out on improved agricultural and gardening techniques, including training of village
       committees (180 days of training against the target of 60). In addition, two theater plays were conducted for
       training on social reconciliation.


Outcome
  Overall, direct project beneficiaries were estimated at 86,382 (target was 50,000), with 31% females.
  22,771 days of youth employment was created during the cash- for- work activities (target was 20,000).
  Access to all-season roads improved for 450,000 people of the three prefectures; 1,825 people are estimated to
    benefit from access to a new borehole; and 1,600 people are estimated to benefit from the improved market
    infrastructure (these were the original indicators that were dropped as there was not baseline to measure the
    targeted increase in 20%).
  There was no data collected on the revised outcome target of 20% increase in the number of beneficiaries
    experiencing greater security in project areas.

The ACTED's evaluation report 2015 demonstrated that Béboura market in Ouham-Pende was used on a weekly
basis with 1,200 to 1,600 beneficiaries as sellers and buyers from 10 different villages; a total of 396 sellers, of which
253 were women, benefited from the market. The bus station is operational and created 161 long-term jobs; women
sold products at the bus station.
The IRC's focus group meetings reported the following results: (i) access to roads improved due to the project; (ii)
despite various trainings, the beneficiaries pointed out that they did not have means to create a business and that
those who had received support lost their equipment through the looting of the armed groups during the political crisis;
(iii) cash for work was a good initiative for youth but it was not sustainable; only a few youth managed to find
occasional work; (iv) associations, including women associations, were trained but the violent crisis had a negative
impact on their activities.

The Premiere Urgence reported the following findings: (i) access to markets, water and sanitation improved due to
civil works; (ii) the cash-for-work program allowed for short-term employment and intended for beneficiaries to use
their savings for investments in their agricultural activity or income-generating activities; the outbreak of the conflict,
however, coupled with looting and displacement, made the project beneficiaries as vulnerable as those who did not
benefit from project activities.



5. Efficiency:

A cost-benefit analysis was not carried out at appraisal for this emergency project. At closure, the project's cost
effectiveness was done through comparing with similar projects: (i) the unit costs of road re-graveling works of
US$9,949 were within the range of two road works projects in Senegal (US$10,181) and Ethiopia (US$11,264), and
significantly lower than in Vietnam (US$25,000); and (ii) Also, in terms of the income generating activities, the cost
per beneficiary under Components 1 and 2 was US$66 and $US75, slightly higher compared to US$71 per
beneficiary estimated under another Bank- financed LONDO project providing temporary employment to vulnerable
people in the country.

The project duration period was three years (the original period of one year was extended by two years). The project's
activities were not fully implemented, mainly due to a highly volatile and fragile security environment and a
subsequent break- out of violence conflict in 2013.

Efficiency is assessed as modest.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                         No
     ICR estimate                      No
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is substantial. The project modestly achieved its objective
of improving access to basic social infrastructure and economic opportunities for local communities in the targeted
areas with a focus on youth. Efficiency is assessed as modest.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Political and security risk . CAR is a fragile and conflict affected country, its progress toward peace is
     inconsistent, and its political will for positive change is unstable.
    Institutional risk . Government presence remains very limited in the north. Public sector capacity remains weak
     (the project was implemented by international NGOs and there was no capacity transfer). Local authorities lack
     operational budgets, equipment, transportation, training, and adequate personnel. The community maintenance
     committees for infrastructure supported by the project were no longer operational due to looting of their tools.
    Social risk. Recurring conflicts in CAR have destroyed the social fabric affecting social cohesion among rural,
     isolated, and agriculturally dependent communities.
   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

This project was prepared as an emergency operation under Operational Policy/ Bank Procedure on Rapid
Response to Crises and Emergencies (OP/BP 8.00) and approved within seven months. The project design was
built on a 2008 Bank feasibility study on piloting innovations for conflict-sensitive community recovery as well as a
Bank- supported food response project in the country. The components and implementation arrangements were
designed to reflect the post-conflict and fragile state context, particularly in terms of lack of Government presence
in the north of the country. The risks were adequately assessed and mitigation measures were put in place. A
Project Steering Committee was set up and included the Ministry of Planning and Development, implementing
agencies, and the Bank. While the safeguards and fiduciary arrangements were appropriate, the M&E design had
weaknesses (see section 10), and had to be revised during implementation.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The ICR (p.20) reports that ten missions were conducted in total during a three- year implementation period, out of
which five were carried out in 2012. A World Bank consultant based in the country helped monitor closely the
project on a daily basis. However, the first field visits were conducted only after one year into project
implementation. As a result of the crisis starting in December 2012 and evacuation of the staff, no missions were
conducted till the project closure; the staff operated from the Yaounde office in Cameroon. The recommendations
of the mid-term review carried out in September 2012 to strengthen the project were not implemented due to the
conflict. The Bank team provided close guidance to support the implementing agencies on the Bank’s fiduciary
requirements, including deployment of a financial management specialist to Bangui for three months and
organization of the workshop on financial management and procurement. There was, however, no safeguards
specialist on the project team throughout the project duration. The focus on M&E was weak: neither the planned
baseline survey nor beneficiary assessments were conducted. Also, there was insufficient follow-up in filing the
project documentation in the system, including the implementing agencies' quarterly reports and aide memoires
(only five implementation status and results reports were filed, according to Table G of the ICR's datasheet), The
monitoring of project implementation was however challenging in a very insecure environment that broke out into
violent conflict, leading to to the displacement of beneficiaries and evacuation of the project staff.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government showed support and commitment to the project during its preparation. It agreed to the formation
of the Project Steering Committee that should hold quarterly meetings and to the adoption and disclosure of
safeguards. During implementation, however, the meeting of the committee was carried out only once. The
disclosure of safeguards framework was delayed, thus leading to the first extension of the project closing date.
While the conflicts in the country and a coup d’état affected the Government's commitment during implementation,
the ICR (p.21) notes that the Government could have been more supportive of the activities it agreed to, including
its participation in supervision. On the other hand, local authorities showed strong participation and project
ownership.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
The project was implemented by four international non-governmental organizations: Agence d’Aide a la
Cooperation Technique Et au Developpement (ACTED), the International Rescue Committee (IRC), Premiere
Urgence (PU), and Solidarités International.

The implementing agencies were already operating in the areas selected by the project. Given the challenging
operating environment, they showed flexibility and creativity to responding to problems and changes on the
ground. For example, a road contractor was brought from Chad because it was not possible to obtain one locally;
and an endogenous network of people was set up to monitor project activities as the difficult security context did
not allow the Solidarités International team to carry out regular monitoring visits. There was lack of familiarity with
Bank procedures and there were some initial shortcomings in fiduciary compliance, including ineligible expenses;
as confirmed by the project team, these were resolved with the support of a financial management specialist.
There was a high turnover and multiple evacuations of the project teams due to insecure environment, and there
was no smooth hand- over of tasks and information.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The key outcome indicators for the project development objective were a 20% increase in beneficiaries in the
intervention area with access to all-season roads, to improved water sources, and market infrastructure, as well as
days of youth employment created. While the outcome targets were set at appraisal, baseline data were supposed to
be constructed within the first three months of project implementation, including the percentage of female
beneficiaries (EPP, Annex 2). The outcome indicator related to youth helped measure progress of the project's
cash-for-work results through labor intensive work and income generating activities for associations. It was however
not disaggregated to track separately youth and the youth associated with armed violence; the implementing agencies
commented that such tracking could potentially stigmatize the youth associated with armed violence as they were
perceived like any other community member (ICR, p.14). During project restructuring in 2012, the outcome indicators
related to access to infrastructure were dropped for absence of baseline data to measure the progress against a 20%
target (the indicators were reported at project completion as an aggregate number). One new outcome indicator was
added: a 20% increase in beneficiaries who experience a feeling of greater security attributable to the project areas.

The intermediate results indicators were designed separately for each implementing agency; these were revised
during the project implementation to harmonize them between the implementing agencies, as per Restructuring Paper
of April 25, 2012. The approach to harmonized indicators for all implementing agencies was not appropriate as they
did not implement the same activities. As a result, for example, the intermediate indicators under Component 4 did not
capture the agriculture-related support provided by Solidarités International , in particular distribution of seeds and
agriculture tools. One can argue, however, that the identification of target values would be difficult as such specific
sub-projects would depend on actual demand identified through community participation.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Quarterly progress reports were submitted by the implementing agencies, with detailed quantitative information.
However, the ICR (p.20) adds, as the Bank system lacked the initial mission reports and quarterly reports, it's not
clear if all the reports were sent by the implementing agencies. The reports included photos of the socio-economic
infrastructures built and were particularly valuable for periods when the Bank was unable to conduct direct supervision
due to security concerns. A baseline survey and beneficiary assessments were not carried out as planned.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR (p.9) reports that there was limited strategic use of information generated by the M&E system, however,
the monthly meetings facilitated information exchange between the implementing agencies that had a positive impact
on implementation efficiency.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was a Category “B” project that triggered three safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP
4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, and OP4.09 Pest Management. Due the project's community-driven nature, the exact
activities financed by the project were not known at appraisal. The ICR (p.10) reports that the overall compliance with
the safeguards was rated moderately satisfactory, though there was no safeguard specialist on the Bank team.

Environmental Assessment and Pest Management : The development of safeguards instruments was a disbursement
condition, and the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), the Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF) and the Pest Management Plan (PMP) were prepared prior to project implementation by the implementing
agencies. There was a delay in the adoption and in-country disclosure of the safeguards instruments that led to initial
implementation delays of several months and a subsequent extension of the project closing date. As indicated by the
ICR (p.10), this was related to OP 4.09 regarding the delivery of seeds (IRC and Solidarités) in May 2011. To improve
overall safeguards awareness and performance, the project beneficiaries, in particular the implementing agencies,
received safeguards monitoring sheets, to help them track and identify any negative environmental or social impacts.
However, their use and impact on the project was limited due to the lack of budget and qualified staff to support this
feedback mechanism, and also, most likely for absence of any significant environmental or social impacts or issues
during project implementation.

Involuntary Resettlement : The project did not require any physical resettlement, nor was land temporarily or
permanently acquired, nor livelihoods negatively affected.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement: Procurement was rated as moderately satisfactory for the four implementing agencies during the last
supervision mission, according to the ICR (p.10). There were weaknesses in contract management, in particular in
following the required contract payment methods. A Bank procurement specialist based in Bangui worked closely with
the implementing agencies on procurement issues. The first ex-post procurement review was conducted for each
implementing agency, but due to the political crisis in 2012, the reports were not finalized.

Financial management: The ICR (p.10) reports that final external financial audit reports were satisfactory. During
implementation, financial reports and audit reports were produced but with delays. The financial management
capacity of the implementing agencies was affected by a high turnover of staff. The issue of ineligible expenses was
resolved through a close support from the financial management specialist deployed in Bangui, as confirmed by the
project team, and there were no other fiduciary issues.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                  IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Unsatisfactory            Moderately             The project was rated modest on two
                                                        Unsatisfactory         criteria- efficacy and efficiency, while
                                                                               relevance of objectives is rated high
                                                                               and that of design is substantial.
          Risk to Development High                      High
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                 Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                          Satisfactory
NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

A number of lessons are derived from a longer list discussed in the ICR:

    In a fragile and post -conflict context, project design and implementation arrangements need to be kept
     simple. This project provided small grants for implementation to non-governmental organizations with
     substantial experience and capacity, which were operating on the ground.

    In fragile and post -conflict countries , a community- driven approach may be the best option when the
     Government capacity is weak and its presence is low . This project's bottom-up approach through communities
     could help make some improvements to the most vulnerable and conflict- affected population.

    Extra resources and effort should be put into generating baseline data in fragile and post -conflict contexts . In
     this project, lack of baseline data for many indicators made it difficult to clerly ascertain the value added by the
     project.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and outcome oriented. It provides sufficient detail in the discussion of issues that affected the
project implementation and offers a thorough analysis of the M&E design and implementation. The list of lessons is
extensive and evidence- based. There is a typo on the allocation of grant amounts in Annex 1 in Table A1.1: ACTED
original grant constituted US$2 million, and US$1.78 million for Solidarités International.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
