Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 21076
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ON A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
TO ROMANIA
FOR A PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 4489-RO)
October 12, 2000
Finance and Private Sector Development (ECSPF)
Europe and Central Asia Region (ECA)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 29, 2000)
Currency Unit        Leu (plural Lei)
I Leu    =     00 bani
I Leu    =    US$0.0000413
US$1          24,169 Lei
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1998          1999         June,2000         July, 2000      August, 2000
8,876        15,333          20,816            21,248           21,875
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AVAB   -  Agentia de Valorificare a Activelor Bancare
BA   -  Bank Agricola
BCR  -  Banca Comerciala Romana
BX   -  Bancorex
CAR - Capital Adequacy Ratio
CEC   -  Savings Bank
EU   -  European Union
FESAL  -  Financial and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loan
FIAS  -  Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GOR  -  Government of Romania
IAS  -  International Accounting Standards
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NBR   -  National Bank of Romania
NGO   -  Non-Governmental Organization
PIBL  -  Private Sector Institution Building Loan
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PSAL  -  Private Sector Adjustment Loan
SMEs  -  Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
SOEs  -  State-owned Enterprises
SOF  -  State Ownership Fund
TORs  -  Terms of Reference
WTO   -  World Trade Organization
ROMANIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Director: Paul Siegelbaum, ECSPF
Sector Leader: Yasuo Izumi, ECSPF
Team Leader: . Khaled Sherif, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (Loan No. 4489-RO)
Contents
A.   Project Data ........................................................1I
B.   Principal Performance Ratings .........................................................2
C.   Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and of Quality at Entry ...............................2
D.   Achievement of Development Objective and Outputs ......................................................... 4
E.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ........................................................    10
F.   Sustainability ........................................................ 10
G.  Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................ 12
H.  Lessons Learned ........................................................                             14
I.   Partner Comments ........................................................ 15
J.   Additional Information ........................................................                     15
K.  Annexes.22
ANNEX 1: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ................................................... 23
ANNEX 2A: PROJECT COSTS ................ 23
ANNEX 2B: PROJECT FINANCING .......................................................................... 23
ANNEX 3: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS ...                                                                 23
ANNEX 4A: BANK INPUTS: SITE VISITS .. .    24
ANNEX 4B: BANK INPUTS: STAFF .. .    24
ANNEX 5: RATINGS FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE/OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT .25
ANNEX 6: RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE .26
ANNEX 7: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS .27
ANNEX 8: BENEFICIARY SURVEY REsuLTs .27
ANNEX 9: STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP RESULTS .27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (Loan No. 4489-RO)
A.    Project Data
Report Date:  October 12, 2000
Name:        Implementation Completion Report for Private Sector Adjustment Project in Romania
Country:     South Central Europe Country Unit (ECC05)
Sector:      Private and Finance Sector Development Unit (ECSPF)
L/C Number:  Loan No. 44890
Region:      Europe and Central Asia
Original             Revised/Actual
Key dates
PCD                           03/10/99                03/10/99
Appraisal                     04/15/99                04/15/99
Approval                      06/10/99                06/10/99
Effective                     08/25/99                08/25/99
MTR                           10/28/99                10/28/99
Closing                       03/31/00                06/17/00
Borrower                  The Government of Romania
Implementing Agency       Project Management Unit (PMU) at the Ministry of Transport
Other partners           N/A
Staff                         Current                 At Appraisal
Vice President           Johannes F. Linn             Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager           Andrew N. Vorkink           Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager           Yasuo Izumi                  Yasuo Izumi
Team Leader of ICR        Khaled F. Sherif            Khaled F. Sherif
ICR Primary Author        Khaled F. Sherif            Khaled F. Sherif
Team Leader of Appraisal  Khaled F. Sherif            Khaled F. Sherif



-2 -
B.    Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely,
UTN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest,
N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance. S
Quality at Entry S
Project at Risk at any time No
ICR S
C.    Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and of Quality at Entry
3.1    Original Objective:
Romania's transition to a market economy has been a long and difficult challenge, characterized by high
inflation rates, deep fiscal and current account deficits, unstable balance of payments, and the recurrence
of negative growth. After an initial period of output decline in 1990-92, Romania's economy experienced
growth from 1993-96. However, this was largely financed by high inflation, foreign borrowings, direct
subsidies to favored enterprises, and arrears or non-payment by uncompetitive enterprises on obligations
to banks, utilities companies, and social funds. By 1997-98, a combination of macroeconomic and
structural weaknesses caused the economy to contract by 16 percent over the last three years. With
mounting external repayment obligations, an increasingly unstable balance of payments, tensions in the
banking system and the lessons of Bulgaria's collapse fresh in the minds of the electorate and policy
makers, the Government of Romania (GOR) moved in late 1998 to initiate needed structural reforms in
the enterprise and financial sectors, and to put its economy on a path to sustainable recovery and growth.
To this end, the Government requested Bank assistance for the design and implementation of its
ambitious program. The Bank responded with a US$300 million Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL)
to provide balance of payments support, and a US$25 million Private Sector Institution-Building Loan
(PIBL) to assist with implementation of the PSAL.
The PSAL aimed to reconcile immediate financing needs (to avert a balance of payments crisis) and
confidence-building measures with medium-term structural reforms for sustainable growth and
development. In addition to immediate financing of US$150 million (first tranche release) and an
additional US$150 million upon successful completion of the reform program, measures taken through
PSAL were designed to send a signal to international markets that Romania's government was moving to
introduce a more conducive legal and regulatory framework for private sector development, to enhance
institutional capacity to implement this new framework, and to reduce the role of direct government
intervention in the economy to a more open and competitive system consistent with EU norms.
3.2   Revised Objective:
No formal revision of objectives was required during the course of project implementation.
3.3    Original Components:
To meet these objectives, the PSAL focused on three critical areas of structural reform: (i) acceleration of
banking sector restructuring, and initiation of privatization (and liquidation) of the remaining state-owned



- 3 -
banks; (ii) acceleration of enterprise privatization (and, where needed, liquidation), and increased
financial discipline in this sector by hardening budget constraints and requiring enterprises to meet their
financial obligations; and (iii) support to growth and development of the new private sector by making the
overall business environment more conducive for new firms to be able to compete with a minimum of
distortions. Recognizing that restructuring, privatization and liquidation in the state enterprise sector were
going to result in layoffs and hardship in some localities, the PSAL program included social protection
measures to mitigate the costs of adjustment among those who were most vulnerable.
Key near-term objectives in each of the four main areas were as follows: (i) in the financial sector, GOR
priorities were to manage and definitively resolve the threat to stability, safety and soundness posed by
the largest, but insolvent, state owned bank Bancorex, to prepare the remaining state banks for
privatization, to strengthen the legal environment to make it possible to privatize the state banks in a
timely manner, to improve regulation of the banking sector by the National Bank (NBR), and to establish
a functioning secondary market for Government securities; (ii) in the enterprise sector, priorities were to
strengthen financial discipline in the state enterprise sector, to liquidate non-viable loss-making
enterprises (e.g., mines), to privatize remaining state enterprises (including in the utilities sector) by
introducing a wider variety of methods than previously, i.e. pool privatization, to induce divestiture
which would diminish overall losses in the state enterprise sector (as of 1998) by 22 percent, and to
strengthen the legal framework for bankruptcy and liquidation to facilitate privatization; (iii) in the
business environment, priorities were to strengthen the legal framework for secured transactions, to
reform the law regulating the Court of Accounts, to improve the tax code, to modemrize accounting
standards, and to launch a comprehensive study to determine ways to reduce administrative and
bureaucratic obstacles to private sector growth; and (iv) in the area of social cost mitigation, key priorities
were to protect those most vulnerable to the negative effects of downsizing and enterprise closure by
providing unemployment benefits, severance pay, enhancing the environment for micro-credits for new
business start-ups and strengthening the social safety net. In particular the legal changes and the new
privatization method in PSAL were also designed to prepare the groundwork for longer-term reforms
needed for stable growth and development.
In addition to these near-term priorities, PSAL was also designed to prepare the groundwork for longer-
term reforms needed for sustainable growth and development. These included tax reform (i.e., global
corporate and personal income taxes), pension reform (i.e., multi-pillar, combination of public and private
financing), and the modernization of public administration via a comprehensive civil service reform.
Technical and financial support for private sector adjustment involved the US$300 million in balance of
payments support, as well as the US$25 million PIBL to assist with implementation of the PSAL. These
resources were utilized to (i) hire privatization advisors and other consultants to assist GOR and the State
Ownership Fund (SOF) with various technical aspects related to privatization methodologies, procedures
and formalities for banks and enterprises, including public utilities; (ii) hire advisors and workout
specialists to more fully develop the asset resolution agency (AVAB) for critical bank resolution issues,
with particular emphasis on the restructuring of bad assets and marketing of loan packages to maximize
salvage value; (iii) hire advisors and law firms to assist in introducing new laws and regulations for a
more market-based economy to function, specifically in the areas of bankruptcy and liquidation; (iv)
engage FIAS to conduct a comprehensive assessment of constraints to trade, investment and private
sector growth, and to make recommendations on reforms to reduce barriers to entry for Romania's new
private sector; and (v) assist with income support and social protection for those adversely affected by
restructuring and privatization. In the fifth area of social protection, the Government of Netherlands also
provided US$3.7 million in balance of payments support for a Trust Fund to assist with Unemployment
Fund deficits and the payment of unemployment benefits which was fully disbursed in December 1999.



-4 -
3.4    Revised Components:
There was no major revision of components.
3.5    Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of (i) consistency of objectives with the CAS
and GOR priorities, (ii) demonstrated capacity of the implementing agency, and (iii) project design,
which accounted for institutional constraints and risks. The program was consistent with the latest CAS
for Romania (dated June 3, 1997) and its objectives of promoting structural adjustment through
privatization and financial sector reforms. The support was proposed to provide balance-of-payments
support to GOR as it undertakes needed yet costly restructuring of its enterprise and financial sectors. In
addition to broad macroeconomic actions, this loan supported reforms that enhance Romania's long-term
prospects for economic growth and development; provide underlying support to people displaced by the
restructuring; and promote development of conditions that would accelerate Romania's preparation for
formal entry into the European Union and other organizations.
D.    Achievement of Development Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The original PSAL program included 51 conditions and a number of benchmarks. GOR achieved or
exceeded all agreed benchmarks, in most cases ahead of schedule. Major reforms were introduced in a
timely manner, with the two-tranche operation fully disbursed in less than one year from loan
effectiveness. Where adjustments and compromises were required, these were minor and justified. The
overall assessment is that the outcome was highly satisfactory.
The only areas where performance was less than fully compliant concerned (i) staffing AVAB in a timely
manner to accelerate the asset resolution process, (ii) issuing regulations by National Bank of Romania
(NBR) for the write-off by banks of all loss loans overdue by more than 360 days, and (iii) drafting
personal and corporate income tax legislation by MOF satisfactory to the Bank. However, even in these
three areas, GOR performance was more than acceptable. In the case of AVAB, initial delays identified in
the October 28, 1999 and April 11, 2000 supervision missions were substantially corrected by June 2000
to allow for second tranche release. With regard to the issuance of NBR regulations, the Bank agreed with
MOF to include the cost impact of tax deductibility of loans classified as loss for more than 360 days (that
are required to be written off against provisions) as part of the budgetary cost of bank restructuring. The
Bank found this acceptable, thus the condition was substantially met. On the issue of personal and
corporate income taxes, GOR substantially met requirements of the Loan Agreement by enacting a
personal income tax law that includes farmers' and pensioners' income as part of tax coverage, and by
agreeing to subsequently amend the corporate tax law to phase out preferential provisions for exporters in
a manner acceptable to the IMF, World Bank and EU. Apart from these minor discrepancies, GOR
achieved or exceeded objectives, met all conditions before the revised closing date (extended by three
months from original closing date), and demonstrated full compliance with the Loan Agreement.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Financial Sector
Outputs
In the financial sector where efforts focused on bank privatization and restructuring, improving NBR
regulation, and the introduction of a Government securities market, GOR introduced a number of
measures prior to first tranche release in support of market-based banking. These involved legal and



regulatory reforms to accelerate restructuring and privatization in the banking sector, and introduction of
a legal and institutional framework for asset resolution. Specifically, these included (i) changes to the
Law on Bank Privatization to speed up the process and to remove the "golden share" option of the State
Ownership Fund (SOF), as demonstrated by the privatization of the Romanian Development Bank in
December 1998 and Banc Post in March 1999, and to be further tested during PSAL with a due diligence
of the loan portfolio of Banca Comerciala Romana, or BCR (as a preparatory step towards its eventual
privatization); (ii) development of a restructuring plan for Banca Agricola, or BA (including stopping the
transfer of assets to the Danube Restructuring Fund) as a first step towards subsequent privatization; (iii)
development of a detailed liquidation plan and appointment of a bank liquidation expert to liquidate the
largest state owned bank in Romania, Bancorex, long the source of unsound financing of non-viable
enterprises and dubious private interests; (iv) the tightening of liquidity and solvency requirements of
banks to enable the NBR to identify' problem banks early on, and to prevent losses to depositors as a
result of bank failures; (v) the strengthening of accounting and audit standards; and (vi) the creation of a
legal framework for asset resolution. Second (andfinal) tranche release conditions included (i)
submission of a satisfactory privatization plan for BCR, appointment of a privatization advisor, and
completion of a satisfactory due diligence report of BCR's loan portfolio; (ii) submission of a satisfactory
privatization plan for BA, appointment of a privatization advisor, and transfer of at least 50 percent of
BA's nonperforming assets to AVAB; (iii) adoption of "irreversible measures" for the implementation of
the agreed liquidation of Bancorex; (iv) strengthening NBR supervision of banks by integrating different
supervisory functions into one department and hiring needed staff; (v) ensuring compliance of banks with
NBR regulations, supported by a strengthened supervision department and external audit requirements;
(vi) further tightening of provisioning requirements for banks based on risk classifications consistent with
International Accounting Standards; (vii) demonstrating that AVAB had qualified management, staff and
advisors in place; and (viii) establishing an acceptable plan to develop primary and secondary
Govemment securities markets based on modem payment and clearing systems, and offering at least four
maturities for such securities.
Impact
Performance in all areas was considered satisfactory. Notwithstanding slower than desired progress in
asset resolution and some delays regarding the tax deductibility of provisions for loan losses, overall
performance was high given the short period of time in which objectives were achieved. In bank
restructuring and privatization, the first program area dealing with the privatization of state banks
achieved objectives. The due diligence of the BCR loan portfolio was substituted with a June 30, 1999
audit and loan portfolio review, and this fed directly into the second tranche condition to develop a
satisfactory restructuring plan prior to privatizatiori. Acceptable privatization advisors (Merrill Lynch and
Arthur Andersen) were appointed to help implement restructuring and privatization plans. In the second
program area dealing with Banca Agricola, the financial and operational assessment of BA led to defacto
NBR takeover of the bank to contain losses, to transfer more than 50 percent of non-performing assets to
AVAB (in exchange for Treasury bills), and to prepare BA for prompt privatization (if successful) or
liquidation. Acceptable privatization advisors (Lazard and Raiffeisen) were appointed to implement the
privatization plan. In the third program area, Bancorex was decertified on July 31, 1999 with the
withdrawal of its license, and its name was removed from the official company registry on October 31,
1999. These are considered irreversible measures, and Bancorex has ceased to exist, shutting down the
major funnel for loss-making and fraudulent activities in the Romanian economy. In the fourth program
area dealing with strengthened banking supervision and regulatory compliance, progress has been
ongoing since before PSAL. To shore up bank liquidity, NBR had already established minimum reserve
requirements at 15 percent of all deposits on a remunerated basis prior to PSAL. As a condition of first
tranche release, NBR introduced stricter risk-weighted capital adequacy requirements (CARs) to bolster
bank solvency, raising requirements to 8 percent (Tier I capital) and 12 percent (Tier I + 2 capital).
Along with higher minimum reserve requirements, these measures have enabled NBR to identify problem



- 6 -
banks earlier on, and have helped to prevent/contain losses to depositors as a result of bank failures.
(Where there is a weakness in this area is with unregulated cooperative banks. This is being addressed as
part of the proposed PSAL 2 program.) Meanwhile, GOR strengthened supervisory capacity by
reorganizing the banking supervision activities of NBR into one department, with staffing requirements of
112 personnel (70 of which had been filled as of April 2000) focused on on-site inspection, off-site
surveillance, strategic/policy coordination, and legal matters. In the fifth program area meant to improve
bank compliance with prudential regulations, compliance with prudential norms has been demonstrated
by regular reports based on Basle Core Principles, external audits, and monthly reports related to specific
provisioning requirements (noted below). In the sixth program area to strengthen accounting and audit
standards and practices, GOR had already begun this effort prior to first tranche release with adoption of a
chart of accounts consistent with IAS, introduction of a new Banking Law (introduced in 1998) requiring
that all banks appoint independent external auditors, and that banks produce quarterly, not just annual,
statements. As part of the PSAL program, NBR also introduced tighter provisioning standards on a
monthly pre-tax basis in the currency of exposure. These measures were subsequently strengthened by
new regulations issued by NBR for better risk classifications, stricter principles applied to loss categories
of principal and accrued interest exposures to companies in bankruptcy or liquidation, the requirement
that exposures to companies in bankruptcy or liquidation be fully provisioned, and the requirement that all
loss loans overdue by more than 360 days be written off against provisions. These provisions are now all
tax-deductible, in keeping with international standards. (The condition that loss loans overdue more than
360 days was substantially complied with, while all others were fully complied with.) The seventh
program area, focused on the creation of a legal framework for asset resolution, is the one area where
GOR performance was viewed to be less than satisfactory through most of the PSAL. The main issue was
that AVAB was slow to appoint needed management, staff and advisors, partly due to delays in
submitting a new ordinance to Parliament to provide AVAB with the salary and incentive flexibility
necessary to hire needed professionals. However, this situation was rectified in April-May 2000, and
AVAB now has needed management, staff and advisors in place. With regard to development of a
Government securities market, GOR has established a plan for the computerized clearing and settlement
of Government securities transactions, and it has offered at least four different maturities. (To kickstart
trading on a transparent market for Government securities will be an important issue in the proposed
PSAL 2 program as a sound alternative to ensure MOF financing, and to bring down interest rates.)
Enterprise Sector
Outputs
In the enterprise sector, GOR focused on case-by-case privatization, pool privatization, SOF privatization,
loss reduction and privatization of "national" companies, and liberalization of the utilities sector. First
iranche release focused on establishing a legal framework for accelerated privatization, establishing pools
of firms for privatization, accelerating SOF privatization, and moving forward with plans to liberalize
network industries in the utilities and power sector and to privatize the national oil company. Specifically,
these measures included (i) enacting an acceptable Privatization Law for case-by-case privatization of
large-scale enterprises; (ii) initiating tenders to major international investment banks to serve as financial
advisors for the privatization of four large commercial SOEs; (iii) selecting 50 large SOEs from the SOF
portfolio to be offered for sale in five pools of ten enterprises each; (iv) SOF privatization of an additional
30 large SOEs and at least 250 SMEs which, together, accounted for at least 4 percent of SOF's total
equity portfolio; (v) SOF privatization of at least 40 SOEs in which it held residual shares; (vi)
identification of a list of SOEs accounting for at least 15 percent of SOF losses, and movement towards
their liquidation; (vii) hiring an international investment bank to sell new shares in Petrom, the national
oil company; and (viii) the drafting of TORs for a regulatory and structural assessment of Romania's
network industries (i.e., power generation and transmission). Second tranche release conditions focused
on (i) completing the tendering process for the privatization of at least three large SOEs, the appointment



- 7 -
of international advisors for the privatization of another five large SOEs, and appointment of international
liquidators for the workout or liquidation of yet another five large SOEs; (ii) the offering of at least 30
large SOEs in pools through acceptable sales agents; (iii) SOF privatization or liquidation of at least 15
large SOEs and 600 SMEs which, together, accounted for at least 5 percent of SOF's equity portfolio; (iv)
SOF offer to sell an additional 160 enterprises in which it held residual shares; (v) the appointment of
liquidators for, or termination of operations of, SOEs generating at least 12 percent of SOF losses; (vi) at
least a 25 percent proportional reduction in losses at six mining companies from 1998 to 1999; (vii)
conclusion of contracts to close and perform needed environmental clean-up at a minimum of 10 mines;
(viii) the offering of at least 35 percent of the capital of Petrom, including new shares; (ix) establishment
of an independent regulatory agency for electricity and heat; (x) completion of an assessment and action
plan to improve the regulatory and structural framework for electricity, telecommunications, railways,
and the oil and gas sectors; and (xi) appointment of international advisors to help prepare a privatization
strategy for the generation and distribution of electricity.
Impact
Performance in the enterprise sector was satisfactory, as GOR met or exceeded objectives on time or
ahead of schedule. The only areas where there were problems involved the privatization of Tractorul and
Petrom, and questions of transparency and integrity related to some proposed SOF transactions. In the
cases of Tractorul and Petrom, attempts at privatization simply met with a disappointing response from
the market. Technically, GOR was in full compliance with PSAL conditions. However, there were
concerns about the transparency of the privatization process for Sidex, and these were expressed to GOR
by the Bank. In the end, Sidex was removed from the PSAL privatization list, which was permitted by
PSAL conditionality as three of the four large SOEs agreed with the Bank moved forward on the
privatization track with advisors. (GOR decided to move forward with the Sidex privatization on their
own, claiming that the Bank's procurement procedures were too cumbersome and that this would stall the
process.) Overall priorities in enterprise reform under PSAL were geared to strengthening financial
discipline in the state enterprise sector, liquidating non-viable loss-making enterprises (e.g., mines),
privatizing most remaining state enterprises (including in the utilities sector), and cutting overall losses
(and subsidies) in the state enterprise sector by 22 percent. These objectives were all met. Regarding
privatization, in the first program area of large-scale case-by-case privatization, tendering procedures and
contracting all proceeded in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Tarom, Alro and Alprom are all on the
privatization track. Meanwhile, an additional seven large SOEs have been selected for privatization,
including Tractorul (again), and 50 large SOEs have been selected for workout or liquidation. This
compares with original benchmarks of five and five, respectively. In the second program area of pool
privatization, contracts were signed in March 2000 for the sale of at least 30 large SOEs. In the third
program area of privatizations undertaken by SOF, benchmarks were generally exceeded. As of January
17, 2000, SOF had privatized 45 large SOEs and 717 SMEs (vs. target of 15 and 600, respectively), sold
residual shares in 255 companies (vs. target of 160), and reduced losses and subsidies by more than 15
percent (vs. target of 12 percent). In the fourth program area focused on loss reduction in the mining
sector, benchmarks were also exceeded as loss reductions averaged more than 47 percent (vs. target of 25
percent), and 14 contracts had been signed by January 17, 2000 for technical closure and environmental
clean-up (vs. target of six). In the power and utilities sector, a 35 percent stake in Petrom was offered for
sale, although the sale was not successful. GOR outlined an action plan for the establishment of an
independent regulatory agency for electricity and heat. Similar progress was made in developing an action
plan for the liberalization and regulation of the electricity, telecommunications, railways, and oil and gas
sectors, all of which will receive EU assistance.
Business Environment
Outputs



With regard to the business environment, there was recognition in the PSAL program that privatization
and liquidation in the SOE sector would not be sufficient to put the economy on a sustainable growth
track. Therefore, the PSAL program also focused on making the environment more conducive for private
sector development by focusing on secured interest in personal property, tax reform, bankruptcy,
accounting and audit, and the overall enabling environment. First tranche release honed in on (i)
introducing a draft Law of Security Interests in Personal Property, and developing options for the
registration of security interests in movable property; (ii) strengthening the legal framework for
bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings to facilitate privatization; (iii) strengthening the accounting and
audit framework, including approval of a draft law for the Court of Accounts; and (iv) developing TORs
to conduct a business environment study to reduce administrative barriers to entry for new businesses.
Second tranche release focused on (i) enacting a Law of Security Interests in Personal Property, and
preparing an implementation plan for the registration of security interests in personal property; (ii)
preparation and submission to Parliament of draft amendments to the corporate and personal income tax
laws, combined with an assessment of the effects these amendments would have on fiscal revenue, the
enterprise sector, and private citizens; (iii) adoption of acceptable by-laws for the Audit Chamber; and
(iv) completion of a business environment study with recommendations for improvement.
Impact
GOR performance in the business environment was satisfactory, although less impressive than
performance in the banking and privatization areas of PSAL. Priorities in this area were to strengthen the
legal framework for secured transactions, to reform the law regulating the Court of Accounts, to improve
the tax code, to modernize accounting standards, and to launch a study to determine ways to reduce
administrative obstacles to private sector growth. These objectives were broadly achieved. In the first
program area regarding security interests in personal property, the law was adopted, implementing
regulations were approved, a registry for personal property was established, and software applications
were introduced for the electronic archive on December 15, 1999. All of this represents full compliance
with PSAL loan covenants on/ahead of schedule. In the second program area of tax reform, several issues
emerged under PSAL that were ultimately remedied. On the recommendation of the Bank, GOR included
pensioners' and farmers' income streams into the global personal income tax base. GOR also withdrew
profit tax exemptions for exporters from the corporate tax base. However, investment tax holidays for
Daewoo and Renault remain in place due to recognition by the Bank of legal agreements in place.
Henceforth, tax holidays will not be offered. Overall, tax legislation is now more consistent with WTO
and EU norms, is more acceptable to the Bank (and IMF), and is backed by a program of support (e.g.,
public awareness, IT, training) for successful implementation. Moreover, GOR has provided a satisfactory
assessment of the impact of tax reform on companies and individuals, as well as on fiscal revenues (the
latter supported by FIAS and the IMF). In the third program area of bankruptcy reform, GOR complied
with the first tranche conditions (i.e., amending the law, establishing a commission for reform). However,
the final report that was due from the commission never materialized. Consequently, the Bank agreed
with GOR that the condition would be met once GOR had signed a contract for a qualified firm or
individual to prepare the report. This has been done, and the net effect will only be a few months' delay
from the original schedule in having the bankruptcy commission's proposals for reform presented. In the
fourth program area of accounting and audit reform, MOF issued an ordinance to bring accounting
standards in line with IAS, and acceptable by-laws were adopted by the Audit Chamber. Thus, loan
conditionality was fulfilled. However, there is a risk to backtracking in the future, and this would be
damaging to overall market and institutional development in Romania. As elsewhere in the region,
institutional capacity in the audit field is weak, and this undermines the quality of management
informnation generated by firms, raising the cost of credit and investment due to higher risks. In the fifth
area of assessing the overall environment, FIAS conducted a comprehensive assessment and provided a
large number of recommendations encompassing regulatory reforn, corruption, company and tax
registration, foreign exchange, property rights, standardization, employment, land and site development,



- 9 -
and customs and international trade. GOR approved the recommended action plan, and this will serve as
the basis for future operations in support of a viable, private sector-oriented economy.
Social Cost Mitigation
Outputs
In the area of social cost mitigation, there was clear recognition in the PSAL program that the magnitude
of restructuring could cause hardship. On the other hand, without decisive action, the Romanian economy
would not recover, and without the signal of immediate action, it could have collapsed . Thus, GOR and
the Bank endeavored to mitigate the social costs of enterprise restructuring by providing targeted
measures of social protection, mainly income support, measures to obtain altemative employment,
protecting the most vulnerable, and raising public awareness of the need for workers to actively search for
employment. First tranche release conditions included (i) a draft Law for Collective Dismissals which
required that affected workers participate in pre-layoff services, and that services be rendered by both
public and private providers; and (ii) design of a public awareness and communications campaign on the
need for eligible workers to actively seek employment, rather than relying on the state or SOEs to provide
employment opportunities. Second tranche release conditions focused on (i) enacting the Law for
Collective Dismissals; (ii) financing existing Unemployment Fund deficits, and ensuring all
unemployment benefits and severance payments were made to those eligible/entitled; (iii) preparing an
analysis of unemployment, nominal and real benefit levels, and a cash flow forecast of the
Unemployment Fund's financial position; (iv) offering pre-layoff services as called for in the draft Law
for Collective Dismissals; (v) adopting legal measures on the accreditation of organizations and
administration of funds for micro-lending as part of the services rendered to laid off workers; (vi)
submission of a satisfactory report detailing the number of social assistance recipients, the nominal and
real value of social assistance benefits levels, the kinds and quality of delivery systems for social benefits,
and an action plan to improve delivery systems; and (vii) implementation of the public communications
strategy on employment opportunities.
Impact
GOR's performance in the area of social cost mitigation has been very satisfactory, and all conditions of
the loan were technically fulfilled. However, there remains a key structural financing problem with regard
to the Unemployment Fund, which continued to show a deficit in April 2000. Nonetheless, it was able to
pay out all benefits from reserves, thus meeting PSAL conditionality, as this deficit was met from the
State Budget. Key priorities in the social sphere were to protect those most vulnerable to the negative
effects of downsizing and enterprise closure by providing unemployment benefits, severance pay and
enhancing the legal environment for micro-credits for new business start-ups. These objectives were
achieved. In the first program area of providing sustainable income support to laid off workers, conditions
were broadly met. The framework Law for Collective Dismissals was passed on June 17, 1999, and
methodological norms were approved later in the year, making it more affordable to GOR to remove
special privileges and not pay them concurrently with unemployment benefits. GOR provided satisfactory
evidence that all eligible workers were paid severance and unemployment benefits. The structural deficit
position of the Unemployment Fund appears to have been temporarily remedied by borrowing from
MOF. (It is envisaged under the proposed PSAL 2 that transferring severance payment obligations to the
budget, rather than treating these as insurance payments from the Unemployment Fund, will put both on a
more sustainable and transparent financing track.) GOR provided a satisfactory report on unemployment
benefits, including financial forecasts for 1999-2000 that demonstrate a material decline in the real value
of unemployment benefits by 50 percent since 1996. In the second program area targeting assistance to
laid off workers, pre-layoff services are being rendered, participation is increasing, and NGO
intermediaries are now permitted to provide micro-credits (although methodological norms and



- 10-
regulations were still being developed in April 2000). In the third program area focused on strengthening
the social safety net for the poorest of society, GOR presented a satisfactory report on social assistance
recipients, nominal and real value of benefits, delivery systems, and an action plan for improved delivery.
(This will serve as the basis for a separate Social Sector Development Loan.) In the fourth program area
of raising public awareness of the need to actively search for alternative employment, a communications
strategy was implemented.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No financial or economic cost-benefit analysis was undertaken for the PSAL.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
See above
E.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Given the ambitious nature of the loan, the number of components, traditional political resistance to
reform in Romania, and the potential for widespread opposition given the dislocation of thousands of
workers, GOR is to be commended for its management and implementation of the PSAL. GOR
determination, combined with assistance from the Bank (including technical assistance funds for
implementation from the PIBL) and the Government of the Netherlands (to provide unemployment
benefit payments), translated into virtually all objectives of PSAL being achieved in a timely manner, and
all conditions of the loan being met before the revised closing date (extended by three months from
original closing date). From an operational standpoint, all loan covenants were complied with, and only
minor modifications were required.
Project identification commenced on January 10, 1999, board presentation was June 10, 1999, and loan
effectiveness was on August 25, 1999. During that time, GOR introduced comprehensive reforms, and
established a framework for significant structural reform. Given the number of legal measures that
required Parliamentary approval, it is apparent that the political climate in Romania was more receptive to
reform than in earlier years. This may have been a default position in light of past failures, Romania's
increasingly weak economy and fragile balance of payments, and the effect on the public of Bulgaria's
near collapse just two-three years earlier. Nevertheless, it was a contributing factor to PSAL success,
including the quick turnaround between project identification and first tranche release (about eight
months), and first and second (final) tranche release (10 months).
Weaknesses that impacted PSAL performance relate to overstretched capacity at a number of institutions
that slowed asset resolution (at AVAB), privatization (at SOF), and bankruptcy reform (recommendations
from the appointed bankruptcy commission). In the case of the second weakness, GOR pointed out to the
Bank that it viewed the procurement process as too cumbersome, and that this was the reason for some of
the slowdown (i.e., Sidex). A more general risk is that future elections may lead to a reaction against
PSAL reforms because of lost or foregone patronage by earlier vested interests. However, these are
comparatively minor weaknesses relative to past performance on previous adjustment operations (i.e.,
FESAL), the range and depth of objectives PSAL sought to achieve, and what GOR generally achieved
under PSAL within a very short time frame.
F.    Sustainability
6.1    Rationale for sustainability rating:



- I 1 -
PSAL success can be measured against the objectives mapped out within the PSAL framework, as well as
in establishing the preconditions for sustained efforts at meaningful structural reform. PSAL provided a
number of immediate benefits that reinforced a stable macroeconomic framework and put in place
meaningful reforms in the banking, enterprise and social sectors. PSAL was conceived as part of a larger
effort to put in place a macroeconomic framework which reduced inflation rates, provided a more stable
fiscal foundation, supplied meaningful balance of payment support when intemational market confidence
in Romania's debt servicing capacity was rapidly diminishing, and instituted financial discipline to restore
sound economic fundamentals. At the structural level, PSAL was central to introducing financial
discipline at the firm-specific level and an improved incentive structure at the institutional level. This
combination stabilized macroeconomic hemorrhaging that was taking place in late 1998-early 1999, and
sent a signal to the international and domestic community that GOR was prepared to take strong action to
finally put economic policy on a course of sustainable growth. These efforts are already showing results
in the form of primary fiscal surpluses, reduced current account deficits, lower inflation rates, and
projections of positive real growth in 2000 after three consecutive years of decline. At the same time,
however, the recent panic in the banking sector with the collapse of the National Investment Fund and the
run on deposits at BCR and CEC show how fragile the country's economy and financial system remain.
In the financial sector at the firm level, meaningful progress was made in restructuring state banks to
salvage value and privatization prospects, and in liquidating Bancorex to definitively rupture the flow of
funds to non-viable enterprises and the degree of fraud in the financial sector. The incentive structure was
improved and institutional capacity enhanced by reorganizing the NBR supervision department,
tightening prudential regulations to conform to Basle Committee's 25 Core Principles, providing NBR
with the information and means to increase banks' compliance with the regulatory framework, bringing
Romania's accounting standards closer to IAS, adopting by-laws and guidelines to strengthen audit
capacity, establishing a basic framework for asset resolution, and providing the mechanics of electronic
clearing and settlement for an active Government securities market. All of these will serve as building
blocks for a more competitive and efficient financial system able to better intermediate resources, and
based on higher levels of public confidence.
In the enterprise sector, GOR moved closer to privatizing and liquidating most remaining SOEs,
significantly reduced losses in the SOF portfolio and the mining sector, initiated needed environmental
clean-up at some of Romania's most hazardous mines, and conceptualized meaningful action plans that
will liberalize (with proper regulation) the electricity, heat, telecommunications, rail, and oil and gas
sectors. These actions were coupled with introduction of an improved legal framework for secured
interest in personal property and an electronic registry for movable properties, useful tax reform that
brings Romania's tax regime closer to EU (and WTO-recommended) norms, movement towards
meaningful bankruptcy reform, a strengthening of accounting and audit standards, and a broad assessment
of the business environment with recommendations for reform. All of these actions represent major
progress towards an economy characterized by private sector competition under fairly equal conditions of
entry and exit, enhanced regulatory oversight in the power and utilities sectors where liberalization and
modernization are now proceeding, enhanced incentives to lenders to provide secured credit, better
incentives for professional governance (and management) due to rising competition and more creditor-
friendly bankruptcy procedures, and better information if audit standards become more professionalized
in practice.
In the social sector, PSAL provided meaningful assistance where GOR had earlier been notoriously weak.
In the past, GOR had used the state system (banks and enterprises, direct budgetary financing and
subsidies, arrears to social funds and utilities) to provide social protection and employment. The mix of
social, political and economic purposes represented a carryover from the earlier period of centralized
control, and was one of the key root causes of macroeconomic instability and structural decay. Under
PSAL, GOR moved to provide income support, job assistance, social assistance and education within the



- 12 -
context of movement towards a less state-oriented and more market-oriented economy. This provided
some cushion to those immediately affected by layoffs, and has put in place a mechanism for enhanced
support in the future. PSAL also supported efforts to properly quantify the numbers of people receiving
benefits, to quantify the present value of their benefits in real terms, to better identify the sources and uses
of funding for unemployment and severance benefits, and to elaborate intermediation norms for the
delivery of micro-credits for laid off workers. These are not sufficient for long-term sustainability.
However, identification of financing weaknesses, rationalization of assistance programs, and recognition
of institutional capacity and policy coordination weaknesses that emerged during PSAL point to measures
that will be taken to put these forms of social protection on a sustainable track.
6.2    Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Notwithstanding the significant progress made in the last eighteen months, GOR is now at the point
where many of its reforms are being challenged. With general elections scheduled to be held in November
2000, delays in the implementation of politically unpopular reforms are possible. Short-term policy
reversals are also possible, although the long-term direction of the reform program seems reasonably
assured, given that there is no alternative in view of the EU accession requirements, and the EU's reliance
on continued World Bank progress for structural reform. Regardless of its political orientation, the new
Romanian government, which will probably emerge after the elections, is likely to continue the structural
adjustment reforms with the help from the World Bank.
Based on the success of PSAL, the current GOR has already requested the Bank to support a subsequent
operation in the form of PSAL 2, as well as social protection in the form of a Social Sector Development
Loan. Both can be expected to build on successes from PSAL. In banking, future attention is expected to
focus on the privatization of remaining state banks, strengthening banking supervision, rooting deposit
insurance in principles of safe and sound banking, and strengthening governance and management
systems. The securities, mutual fund and the equity markets, i.e. the non-bank segment of the financial
markets, is expected to consolidate and then develop under transparent and properly supervised
conditions. The start of trading in the market for Government securities is expected to be an important
part of the proposed PSAL 2 program, and so is the strengthening of the regulatory framework of the
securities industry. In the enterprise sector, next steps are expected to focus on finishing up with
privatization, liquidating non-viable remnants from the SOF portfolio, and moving forward to implement
liberalization measures in the utilities sector under proper regulatory guidelines. The business
environment is expected to improve with the implementation of modern bankruptcy practices, higher
quality collateral, strengthened financial information (resulting from improved accounting and audit
standards), and adoption of FIAS recommendations that would reduce barriers to entry and exit. On this
note, a professional and modem audit function is an essential prerequisite for good governance and
accurate information in a market economy. In the area of social assistance, future efforts are expected to
focus on building effective and sustainable income and social support structures, introducing a multi-
pillar pension scheme, ensuring effective administration of micro-credit funds by NGOs, and developing
an effective working framework for poverty reduction efforts at all levels of government. The separation
of unemployment and severance payments should put the Unemployment Fund on sound financial
ground, while a combination of public and private pension financing should assist the citizenry with
improved prospects for long-term financial security.
G.    Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1   Lending:



- 13 -
Satisfactory
7.2    Supervision:
Bank supervision missions were thorough in their review of GOR compliance with loan covenants, and in
this sense were highly satisfactory. However, there was limited analysis of the impact of changes in
banking and enterprise restructuring/privatization under PSAL relative to major PSAL goals and
objectives. For instance, in the banking sector, changes in asset, loan, deposit and capital concentration
ratios by major banking institution after liquidation of Bancorex (even based on unaudited year end 1999
figures) would have better described the financial restructuring of the major banks (and the sector as a
whole), their respective roles, their prospects for privatization, and risks associated with such
concentration. In the enterprise sector, obligations/arrears of the large SOEs to banks, GOR, insurance
funds, and utilities companies would have provided a gauge of trends regarding financial discipline, key
to macroeconomic and structural objectives under PSAL. Particularly given the high cost of supervision
in the banking and enterprise sectors relative to other PSAL components, it is thought that such analysis
could have been provided. However, these are not major deficiencies, and it is recognized that such
analysis might have been complicated by the state of flux in the banking and enterprise sectors resulting
from PSAL-related restructuring and privatization. Moreover, given the multitude of components, the
challenges involved, and the short time frame in which objectives were achieved, the Bank's performance
was quite satisfactory throughout the duration of the project.
7.3    Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance was satisfactory to highly satisfactory during all stages of PSAL, although major cost
overruns of about US$140,000 were incurred in supervising the program. Under challenging
circumstances, project identification and appraisal proceeded swiftly, and negotiations were consummated
in a cooperative and constructive manner. The Bank was responsive to GOR requests throughout project
implementation, made reasonable modifications to loan conditionalities when appropriate (i.e., tax reform
issues, bankruptcy commission report), yet applied pressure as needed when progress appeared to lag in
critical areas (i.e., AVAB). In addition, the parallel PIBL for technical assistance assisted GOR with
implementation, and the Bank demonstrated flexibility and understanding in the use of these resources to
respond to GOR needs.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation:
Satisfactory
7.5    Government implementation performance:
Given the number of components and requirements under PSAL, the Borrower's overall performance
should be interpreted as highly satisfactory in most areas, particularly when compared with earlier
performance (i.e., FESAL). GOR worked closely with the Bank throughout the preparation and
implementation phases, and this cooperation had much to do with overall PSAL success. In the area of
covenant compliance, GOR demonstrated virtually complete compliance, with only a few areas showing
partial compliance or delays. GOR's strong institutional support is particularly noteworthy, given its
stretched administrative capacity.
In the limited number of areas where GOR performance was less than highly satisfactory, but these were
still remedied to the satisfaction of the Bank. Political issues surfaced on getting AVAB up and running,
and weaknesses in these areas were pointed out in Bank supervision missions in October 1999 and April
2000. Nevertheless, GOR ultimately responded, and now AVAB is operating with a board, management,



- 14-
staff and advisors in place. In other areas, GOR agreed to reasonable compromises in the area of tax
reform (while honoring existing legal agreements with major investors), bankruptcy recommendations,
and the Unemployment Fund. In some cases, GOR performance could have benefited from more timely
use of outside advisors to achieve full compliance (i.e., bankruptcy commission recommendations, faster
tendering for international privatization advisors).
7.6   Implementing Agency:
Although the Project Management Unit (PMU) suffered some management and administrative
weaknesses, it has nevertheless proved itself to be one of the most successful project institutions in the
country. PMU earned the respect of the PSAL team and government for its effectiveness in solving
multiple problems. Overall, the PMU's performance in implementing the PSAL 1, under some very
difficult circumstances, was satisfactory.
7.4   Overall Borrower Performance:
Satisfactory
H.    Lessons Learned
One reason for PSAL's overall success was strong GOR institutional and political support. Effective
cooperation and coordination between GOR and the Bank also helped sustain support and momentum.
This resulted in "buy-in" from the Government, support from the Bank, and focus on the part of both
parties in achieving objectives.
A second major success factor was the use of international investment and privatization advisors to assist
with the restructuring, privatization and liquidation plans of major SOEs and banks. The use of these
advisors introduced an element of transparency, professionalism and objectivity to the process that would
not have occurred if left to the State Ownership Fund. By extension, the use of outside advisors helped to
develop a framework for asset resolution processes to take hold in Romania during a period in which
significant nonperforming bank assets were transferred from state banks' balance sheets to prepare for
privatization. Outside advisors were also used to provide a comprehensive action plan to reduce
administrative barriers to entry in support of private sector development (i.e., FIAS), and to assist with
major legal reforms (i.e., bankruptcy reform, reconciliation of bank regulations on provisioning
requirements and associated tax applications).
A third factor was the coupling of social protection with major restructuring efforts. The priority given to
mitigating the social costs of enterprise restructuring, and the publicity and benefits surrounding these
efforts, are considered to be one of the reasons why social turmoil did not erupt. Concrete efforts to
provide unemployment and severance payments and pre-layoff services appear to have had a positive
impact, even in the politically sensitive mining sector where about 100,000 people have lost their jobs due
to mine closures.
On the negative side, GOR administrative capacity was stretched, particularly in relation to the multitude
of tasks and components to be achieved in such a short period. Both GOR and the Bank would have
benefited from the appointment of permanent on-site advisors to assist with PSAL implementation. This
would certainly have been helpful with the preparation of TORs, and tendering/contracting/procurement-
related issues. Both the Bank and GOR would have also benefited from efforts to develop a
comprehensive data base on changes in the financial and enterprise sector resulting from structural
reforms under the PSAL, and their impact on the macroeconomic framework. In this area, on-site advisors



- 15 -
could have assisted GOR with development of the data base and regular/quarterly updates. This would
have permitted GOR and the Bank to better quantify benefits and progress.
I.      Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This ICR was prepared with substantial assistance of the PMU, which have provided data and worked
closely with World Bank's ICR mission.
(b) Cofinanciers.
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
FIAS conference on Administrative Barriers to Investment (Summer 2000) provided a large number of
recommendations to adopted by the GOR over the years to strengthen the private sector and promote
economic competitiveness.
J.      Additional Information
Table 1O.1: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant  Present   Original     Revised        Description of Covenant            Comments
Agreement  Section      Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
LA    2.02 (b)    01, 03       C                           Borrower to open and maintain a   Complied with
Deposit Account into which Loan
proceeds are deposited, on terms
satisfactory to the Bank
LA    2.02 (c)    03, 05       C                           Borrower agrees that Loan       Complied with
proceeds can not be used to finance
expenditures cited in Schedule I of
the Loan Agreement
LA     2.02(d)        03       C                           No withdrawals can be made from   Complied with
the Loan account until required
fees are paid
LA     2.02(d)        03       C                           No withdrawals can be made from   Complied with
Loan account above US$1S50
million unless actions and
performance of Borrower are
viewed as satisfactory by the Bank
(as per Article III of Loan
Agreement)
LA       2.03         03     CD        3/31/00    6/17/00 Closing date is March 31, 2000 or  Complied with; minor
such later date as the Bank shall    delay accommodated at the
establish                       request of GOR
LA       2.04         03       C                           On or promptly after the Effective   Complied with
Date, the Borrower shall pay to the
Bank a fee equal to 1% of the
amount of the Loan
LA       2.05         03       C                           The Borrower shall pay to the   Complied with
Bank a commitment fee equal to
0.75% per year of the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn
LA  2.06 (a, b,       03       C                           The Borrower shall pay interest on  Complied with
c, d)                                                 the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding based
on a LIBOR Base Rate plus



- 16 -
LIBOR Total Spread formula, with
the spread equal to 0.75%
LA       2.07        03       C                           Borrower shall make payments on  Complied with
interest and other charges semi-
annually to the Bank on March 15
and September 15 each year
LA       2.08        03              9/15/04-             The Borrower shall repay the    First principal payment
3/15/19            principal amount of the Loan in    scheduled for September
accordance with the amortization    15, 2004
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 of
the Loan Agreement
LA  3.01 (a, b, 03, 05, 09    C      10/28/99,            Borrower and Bank shall exchange  Complied with
c)                               4/11/00,            views on progress in carrying out
6/21/00            agreed Program
LA  3.02 (a)   01, 05, 09     C                           Upon the Bank's request, the    Complied with
Borrower shall have the Deposit
Account audited in accordance
with standards acceptable to the
Bank
LA  3.02 (b, c) 01, 05, 09    C      10/30/00             Borrower shall fumish to the Bank  Complied with
a certified copy of the audit report
as soon as possible, and not later
than six months after the date of
the Bank's request for an audit, as
well as any other information the
Bank reasonably requests on
information concerning the
Deposit account
LA       4.01 03, 05, 09      C                           Event of suspension if a situation   Complied with; not
has arisen which makes it      relevant to PSAL given
improbable that the program will  satisfactory management
be carried out                 by GOR of program
implementation
LA       5.01  03, 05, 09     C                           Macroeconomic framework of the  Complied with
Borrower is consistent with the
objectives of the program
LA       5.02     03, 09      C       8/25/99             The date 120 days after date of the  Complied with
Legal Agreement is specified for
purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions
LA       6.01        09       C                           Minister of Finance of the      Complied with
Borrower is designated as the
representative of the Borrower.
LA  Schedule  01,   03,       C                           Excluded Expenditures           Complied with
1,  Paras 05, 09
1-7   (re
Section
2.02 c)
LA  Schedule         03              9/15/04-             Amortization Schedule           First principal payment
2     (re                         3/15/19                                            scheduled for September
Section                                                                              15, 2004
2.08)
LA  Schedule      03, 05      C       6/30/99             Banca Comerciala Romania        Complied with on June 30,
3, para. I                                           (BCR): Borrower has submitted a   1999; Merrill Lynch and
(i, ii)                                              satisfactory privatization plan,  Arthur Andersen selected
appointed acceptable advisors for   as privatization advisors;
BCR                            Bank received and
accepted privatization plan
LA  Schedule  01, 03, 05      C      10/19/99             Banca Comerciala Romania        Complied with; PWC
3, para. I                                           (BCR): Borrower completed a due  completed audit of BCR
(iii)                                                diligence report satisfactory to the  accounts as of June 30,
Bank on the loan portfolio of BCR   1999 in accordance with



- 17-
international standards, in
lieu of portfolio due
diligence; a copy of the
BCR audit report was
received and accepted by
the Bank on 10/19/99
LA  Schedule      03, 05      C      6/30/99             Banca Agricola (BA): Borrower    Complied with;
3, para. 2                                           has submitted a satisfactory   satisfactory plan submitted
restructuring and privatization  in June 1999; Lazard and
plan, appointed acceptable advisors Raifeissen were appointed
to help implement restructuring  as advisors; more than 50
plan, and transferred at least 50  percent of BA
percent of BA's nonperforming  nonperforming loans were
loan portfolio to AVAB in a    transferred to AVAB under
manner satisfactory to the Bank    an emergency ordinance,
with MOF T-bills
replacing BA's
nonperforming assets
LA  Schedule      03, 05      C      7/31/99-            Bancorex (BX): Borrower has     Complied with; BX
3, para. 3                      10/31/99             adopted irreversible measures,  licenses were withdrawn
agreed with the Bank, for the  on July 31, 1999; BX
implementation of the liquidation   balance sheet was merged
procedure of BX.               with BCR on September
10, 1999; BX was
liquidated on a step-by-
step basis, documented by
GOR and submitted to the
Bank; BX removed from
Company Registry before
October 31, 1999
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09      C                          Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with; NBR
3, para. 4                                           evidence to the Bank that NBR has issued regulations, and
(i)                                                 issued regulations based on IAS    banks now provide
that commercial banks shall    monthly classifications and
produce a risk classification of  provisioning accordingly
their portfolio and provisions for
loan losses (which are tax-
deductible) on a monthly basis
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09      C                          Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with; banks now
3, para. 4                                           evidence to the Bank that NBR has classify as loss all
(ii)                                                issued regulations based on IAS    exposures to clients against
that commercial banks shall    which forced execution,
classify in the loss category all    bankruptcy or liquidation
exposures to clients against which  procedures have been
forced execution, bankruptcy or    initiated
liquidation procedures have been
initiated
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09      C                          Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with; all such
3, para. 4                                           evidence to the Bank that NBR has exposures are now
(iii)                                               issued regulations based on IAS    provisioned 100 percent,
that commercial banks shall    and these are tax-
provision for all loss category  deductible; MOF has
exposures at 100 percent, and that  agreed to ensure that the
these provisions are tax-deductible, cost impact of tax
irrespective of collateral values  deductibility will be added
attached to related exposures  to the cost of bank
restructuring, and that this
will be reflected in the
budget on a phased-in basis
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09     CP                          Borrower has provided satisfactory  Substantially complied
3, para 4                                            evidence to the Bank that NBR has with, although not fully;
(iv)                                                 issued regulations based on IAS    GOR performance



- 18-
that commercial banks shall write  acceptable to the Bank
off against provisions all loss
category loans and overdue more
than 360 days
LA  Schedule      03, 05     CD      12/31/99    3/31/00, Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with on a
3, para. 5                                  and then evidence to the Bank that AVAB    delayed basis; GOR and
6/28/00 has qualified management and   AVAB have appointed a
staff, and that advisors acceptable   CEO satisfactory to the
to the Bank have been appointed    Bank, issued an ordinance
providing AVAB with a
special salary decree to
facilitate hiring needed
professionals, hired needed
staff, and appointed needed
advisors; actions taken
occurred in late 1999-early
2000 after the Bank's
10/28/99 PSAL
supervision reported
highlighted significant
weaknesses with regard to
AVAB conditionality
LA  Schedule      03, 05      C                          Borrower has concluded contracts  Complied with; contracts
3, para. 6                                           with international investment  have been signed to
banks, in a manner acceptable to   privatize Tarom, Alro and
the Bank, for the privatization of at Alprom
least three of four large SOEs
agreed with the Bank
LA  Schedule      03, 05      C                          Borrower has appointed         Complied with; contracts
3, para. 7                                           international investment banks, in  have been concluded with
a manner acceptable to the Bank,   international investment
for the privatization of at least five  banks to privatize
large SOEs agreed with the Bank   Antibiotice, Electroputere,
Hidromecanica, Romvag,
and Tractorul (re-bid)
LA  Schedule      03, 0S      C                          Borrower has appointed         Complied with; contracts
3, para. 8                                           international liquidators, in a  have been concluded with
manner acceptable to the Bank, for international liquidators to
the workout or liquidation of at    liquidate or work out
least five large SOEs agreed with   Clujana, IUG, Nitramonia,
the Bank                       Roman, and Sideurgica;
contracts have also been
concluded with sales
agents for 50 large
enterprises in five pools of
10 companies each
LA  Schedule      03, 05      C       3/15/00            Borrower has offered for sale   Complied with; contracts
3, para. 9                                           through accepted sales agents, in    were signed on March 14-
pools acceptable to the Bank, at    15, 2000 for five pools
least 30 large SOEs agreed with    which cover at least 30
the Bank, and concluded advisory  large SOEs agreed with the
privatization contracts with those   Bank
agents for SOEs among them to be
privatized
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09      C       1/17/00            Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with; SOF
3,  para.                                            evidence to the Bank that SOF has  exceeded benchmarks,
10                                                  privatized/liquidated at least 15  privatizing 45 large SOEs,
large SOEs and 600 SMEs which,  and 717 SMEs by 1/1 7/00
together, represent at least 5
percent of the total SOF equity
portfolio



- 19-
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09       C      1/17/00             Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with; SOF
3,  para.                                            evidence to the Bank that SOF has  exceeded benchmarks,
11                                                   made a firm offer to sell the   selling residual shares in
residual shares it holds in 160  255 companies by 1/17/00
enterprises
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09       C      1/17/00             Borrower has appointed liquidators Complied with; SOF
3,  para.                                            for, or terminated the operations    exceeded benchmarks,
12                                                   of, SOEs generating at least 12  reducing losses and
percent of losses of the SOF   subsidies by 15.2 percent;
SOF also appointed
liquidators as required
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09      C      12/31/99             Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with; loss
3,  para.                                            evidence to the Bank that it has    reductions averaged 47.4
13 (i)                                               achieved a 25 percent proportional  percent in 1999 at the six
reduction of accounting losses  mining companies vs. 1998
from operations of the six mining   results; 14 contracts for
companies agreed with the Bank   technical closure and
environmental clean up
have been signed
LA  Schedule  03,05, 06       C      12/31/99             Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with; 14
3,  para.                                            evidence to the Bank that it has  contracts for technical
13 (ii)                                              concluded contracts for the     closure and environmental
technical closure and          clean up have been signed
environmental clean up of at least
i0 mines
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09       C                          Borrower has offered for sale at    Complied with; the 35
3,  para.                                            least 35 percent of the total capital  percent stake has been
14                                                   of Petrom (including new shares)   offered for sale, reflecting
technical compliance with
Bank conditionality;
however, the sale was not
successful, and Petrom
remains to be privatized
LA  Schedule      03, 05       C      4/11/00             Borrower has completed a        Complied with; with
3,  para.                                            regulatory and structural       assistance from the Bank,
15 (i)                                               assessment study, satisfactory to    GOR has completed the
the Bank, for the electricity,  assessment and developed
telecommunications, railway, and   an action plan acceptable
oil and gas sectors            to the Bank
LA  Schedule      03,05       C       4/11/00             Borrower has appointed          Complied with; advisors
3,  para.                                            international advisors, satisfactory  from Paribas were
15 (ii)                                              to the Bank, to prepare a       appointed and have
privatization strategy for the  prepared a privatization
generation and distribution of  strategy for the distribution
electricity                    of electricity
LA  Schedule      03, 05      C       9/16/99             Borrower has enacted a law on   Complied with; the Law
3,  para.                                            security interests in personal  was enacted in May 1999,
16                                                   property, and issued implementing  and implementing
regulations relating to the law  regulations were approved
on September 16, 1999
LA  Schedule      03, 05     CP Personal tax:             Borrower's government has       Partial (substantial)
3,  para.                        99-5/00;            prepared and submitted to       compliance; personal
17                              corporate            Parliament a draft amendment to   income tax law and
income tax:           the corporate income tax law, and a ordinance were issued in
12/99            draft personal income tax law,  1999, and amended in May
satisfactory to the Bank       2000 to include pensioners
and farmers; corporate
income tax law was
amended in December
1999; GOR was offering
selective tax incentives to
foreign investors against



- 20 -
the Bank's
recommendation that tax
incentives be globalized,
but GOR has agreed to
phase these out
LA  Schedule       03, 05      C         10/99              The Borrower has adopted by-    Complied with; acceptable
3,  para.                                              laws, acceptable to the Bank, for    by-laws were adopted by
18                                                    the Audit Chamber                 GOR in October 1999
LA  Schedule       03, 05      C         11/99              The Borrower has completed a    Complied with; action plan
3,  para.                                              business environment study, and    approved by GOR is based
19                                                     an action plan for the improvement on FIAS assessment and
of the business environment,    recommendations
satisfactory to the Bank
LA  Schedule      03, 05       C       6/17/99              The Borrower has enacted a      Complied with; new law
3,  para.                                              Framework Law for Collective     makes dismissals more
20                                                     Dismissals, satisfactory to the  affordable to Government
Bank                            by removing special
privileges and not paying
them concurrently with
unemployment benefits
LA  Schedule  03, 05, 09       C                            Borrower has provided satisfactory  Complied with; the deficit
3,  para.                                              evidence to the Bank that the    in the unemployment fund
21                                                     Borrower has financed any existing  has been addressed, and
deficit in the Unemployment Fund, outstanding benefits to
and that all unemployment benefits unemployed workers have
and severance payments have been  been paid
paid to eligible workers
LA  Schedule         03,       C                            The Borrower has submitted to the  Complied with; a
3,  para.                                              Bank a satisfactory report on    satisfactory report on
22                                                     unemployment levels, nominal and  unemployment benefits
real unemployment benefit levels,  and levels for 1999 and
and a cash flow analysis and    2000 has been presented,
financial forecast for the      benefits have fallen by 50
Unemployment Fund               percent in real terms since
1996, and further
compression is not possible
without causing severe
hardship
LA  Schedule      03, 05       C       1/29/00              The Borrower has adopted legal    Complied with; an
3,  para.                                              measures, satisfactory to the Bank,  ordinance on the
23                                                     on the accreditation of          accreditation of NGO
organizations for the           intermediaries for micro-
administration of funds for micro-  credit was approved
credits
LA  Schedule          10       C         10/99              The Borrower has submitted to the  Complied with; a
3,  para.                                              Bank a report, satisfactory to the    satisfactory report and
24                                                     Bank, on the number of social    action plan for all areas
assistance recipients, nominal and   was presented
real social assistance benefit levels,
the kinds and quality of social
assistance benefit delivery systems,
and an action plan for the
improvement of such delivery
systems
Covenant types:                                                                               Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits                                   8. = Indigenous people                  C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                      10. = Project implementation not covered    CP  complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds               by categories 1-9                    NC  not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                              11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing      or other resource allocation



- 21 -
agency                                                  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6.  Environmental covenants                                   regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                              13.   Other



- 22 -
K. Annexes
Annex I       Key Performance Indicators
Annex 2a      Project Costs
Annex 2b      Project Financing
Annex 3       Cost Benefits Analysis
Annex 4a      Bank Inputs: Site Visits
Annex 4b      Bank Inputs: Staff
Annex 5       Ratings for Achievement of Objective/Outputs by Components
Annex 6       Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7       List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8       Beneficiary Survey Results
Annex 9       Stakeholder Workshop Results



- 23 -
Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators
As PSAL was an adjustment operation, there was no PAD
Annex 2a: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
1. Balance of Payments support            300.0    300.0                 300.0    300.0
2. Trust Fund for Social Cost                3.7       3.7                 3.7       3.7
Mitigation (unemployment benefits
payments)
Total                                      303.7    303.7                303.7    303.7
Annex 2b: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
IBRD/IDA                                   300.0    300.0                300.0    300.0
Cofinancing Institutions                     0.0       0.0                 0.0       0.0
Other External Sources                       3.7       3.7                 3.7       3.7
Domestic Contributions*                      0.0       0.0                 0.0       0.0
Total                                      303.7    303.7                303.7    303.7
* Domestic contributions provided by GOR in-kind in the form of office space, furniture,
telecommunications, etc.
Annex 3: Cost Benefit Analysis
No normal financial or economic cost-benefit analysis was undertaken for the PSAL



- 24 -
Annex 4a: Bank Inputs: Site Visits
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization    Typesof
Year  Persons  Field
Through Appraisal         04/99     7      10       Appraisal       N/A
Appraisal through Board   05/99     7       7      Negotiations     N/A
approval
Supervision               10/99     7      10      Supervision      N/A
04/00     10     10      Supervision      N/A
Completion                06/00     7       7      Completion       N/A
Total                               44
Annex 4b: Bank Inputs: Staff
Planned                 Actual*
Stage of project cycle    Weeks  US$          Weeks       US$
Preparation to Appraisal    4.55  28,097.81        -0.33     -1,553.56
Appraisal                   6.40  32,348.79         6.63     30,754.26
Negotiations through Board  0.13     122.20         0.00        44.05
approval
Supervision                45.07 193,677.47        92.09   364,076.79
Completion
Total               56.15 254,246.27       98.39   393,321.54



- 25 -
Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objective/Outputs by Component
A. Achievement of Objectives                                  MdSubstantial     t  Negligible  Not applicable
Macro Policies                        /          E          E             E                 E
Sector Policies                       /                    f              E                 El
Financial Objectives                  /            E                      E                 [1
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives                              [          E             El                /
Poverty Reduction                     /            l        El                               O
Gender Issues                        nEl o/
Other Social Objectives               C          E          E             E                 /
Environmental Objectives              ^/          C         E             E                  ]
Public Sector Management             3            /        o              E                 E
Private Sector Development            a          /          E             E                 E
Other (specify)                         l          l        E               l               /



- 26 -
Annex 6: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Hiehlv
Bank Performance                     satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(V) O                                                /
Lending                                                       jj
Supervision                                                   ,I,1
Overall                                                       El a
Borrower Performance            satisfactorv               Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                          V                        [                          [
Implementation                      /
Implementation Agency               V/                                                   E
Overall                             x/ 



- 27 -
Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents
Aide-Memoire
Annex 8: Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A
Annex 9: Stakeholder Workshop Results
Study                    Purpose as defined at      Status       Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Administrative    To review the bureaucratic and  Completed    Provided a large number of
Barriers to        administrative impediments to                 recommendations to be
Investment         establishing and operating a                   adopted over the years to
(FIAS)             business and to suggest                        strengthen the private
improvements to create a better               sector and promote
environment for business                      economic competitiveness;
sufficient commitment
from GOR to satisfy
condition for second
tranche release



