Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P731 3-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
May 17, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 14, 1999)
Currency Unit               Leu (plural Lei)
1 Leu             =         100 bani
1 Leu             =         0.000066 US$
US$1              =         15065 Lei
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA-FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
Vice President             Johannes Linn
Country Director           Andrew Vorkink
Sector Director            Lajos Bokros
Program Team Leader        Khaled Sherif



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AR        -         Agency for Restructuring
BA        -         Banca Agricola
BP        -         Banc Post
BPTF    -          Bank Privatization Task Force
BSE      -         Bucharest Stock Exchange
BX       -         Bancorex
CC       -         Commercial Company
CCSER   -          Council for Coordination, Strategy, and Economic Reform
CEC      -         Savings Bank
CIEB     -         Credit Information Bureau
Co       -         Certificate of Ownership
DFI      -         Direct Foreign Investment
DSR      -         Department for Selective Restructuring
EBRD    -          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU       -         European Union
FESAL   -          Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FRF      -         Financial Recovery Fund
FRP      -         Financial Recovery Program
GD       -         Government Decision
GOR      -         Government of Romania
ICE      -         International Competitive Bidding
IDP      -         Industrial Development Project
IPO      -         Initial Public Offering
MEBOs  -           Management and Employee Buyouts
MOF      -         Ministry of Finance
MPP      -         Mass Privatization Program
NAP       -        National Agency for Privatization
NBR       -        National Bank of Romania
NSC      -         National Securities Commission
POFs    -          Private Ownership Funds
PSAL    -          Private Sector Adjustment Loan
PSD      -         Private Sector Development
RA       -         Regie Autonome
RBFT    -          Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade
RBD      -         Romanian Bank for Development
RCB      -         Romanian Commercial Bank
RDA      -         Romanian Development Agency
SAL      -         Structural Adjustment Loan
SOCE    -          State-Owned Comniercial Banks
SME      -         Small and Medium Enterprises
SOES    -          State-Owned Enterprises
SOF      -         State Ownership Fund
TA       -         Technical Assistance
VAT      -         Value Added Tax
WOD      -         Work-Out Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
Romania
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                    Romania
Amount:                      US$300 Million
Terms:                       Single currency loan, at the Bank's standard US$ LIBOR-based interest
rate, with a proposed 5-year grace period and a 20-year maturity.
Commitment Fee:              0.75% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:    The proposed adjustment program would build on and complement the
reforms already undertaken by the Government since 1990 supported by
the World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan and the previous FESAL
operation. The Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) aims to
stimulate reforms in the following areas:
In the Enterprise Sector: (a) accelerating state-owned enterprise (SOE)
privatization across a wide spectrum of sectors; (b) enforcing hard
budget constraints on remaining SOEs through the closure of big loss-
makers (i.e., mines); and (c) implementing an action plan to stimulate
private sector development and streamline the business environment.
In the Financial Sector: (a) gradually strengthening the Romanian
banking system; (b) ensuring that state banks are properly restructured
as a prerequisite for their privatization, or liquidation; (c) ensuring that
the National Bank of Romania (NBR) puts into place the regulations
that will improve the overall soundness of the banking system at large;
and (d) developing further the government securities market.
In the Social Sector: reforms in both enterprise and financial sectors are
designed to strengthen the social safety net through: (a) creating income
support programs for displaced workers; (b) ensuring adequate
budgetary resources are made available for such purposes; (c)
improving employment services for displaced workers; (d) strengthening
the social assistance programs for the long-term unemployed and poor;
and (e) informning the general public and the affected workers about the
rationale for the reform and the mitigating support the government is
prepared to provide.
Benefits:                    Implementation of structural reforms in the enterprise and financial
sectors under this operation will enhance Romania's prospects for
growth, and sustain its macroeconomic stabilization. Privatization will
increase efficiency in the economy, as enterprises will be better suited to
respond to changes in market conditions and consumer demands.
Improved financial discipline and stronger governance will reduce losses



v
and arrears in the SOE sector, freeing resources for private sector
development. Financial sector reforms would provide the basis for
building up a sound and efficient financial intermediation system and the
development of a new capital market. Such progress will promote the
development of suitable financial instruments for contractual savings,
which will assist GOR over time with its fiscal challenges. The
program will also strengthen substantially the regulatory and
supervisory capabilities of the NBR. Economic stability and growth
would help Romania achieve creditworthiness and gain easier and
cheaper access to external finance. A more dynamic and market-based
banking system overseen by more accountable corporate governance
standards, strengthened internal audit functions and management
systems, and enhanced supervisory capacity from the regulatory side
will lead to improved resource allocation. Ultimately, this will lead to
restored public confidence, more stable funding, and more effective
intermediation. The social mitigation measures will lead to a more
rational, effective, and affordable social safety net, which will both
undergird tax reforms and provide social protection benefits beyond the
life of these reforms.
Risks:                        The main risks associated with the proposed Loan stem  from the
political difficulty of implementing the ambitious Government program.
Slippage in macroeconomic stabilization would further complicate the
implementation of the program, and would reduce its expected benefits.
Political resistance to restructuring and privatization adds to the risk
that privatization may be delayed because of implementation problems.
The volatility of the political situation, but also the determinedness of
the government to see through the program is expressed by that fact that
the government had to endure a no-confidence motion in response to the
passage of laws agreed upon as part of the PSAL. Another key risk
derives from the negative impact the program is likely to have on
poverty in the short- to medium-term, particularly because (a) Romania
is judged weak on safety nets; (b) job losses must occur through mine
closures and are likely to be substantial through mass privatization; and
(c) wages are already low, implying that the families of many of those
laid off are not far above the poverty line to start with. This risk is
partly mitigated by the support provided under the PSAL for
unemployment insurance, severance pay, micro-credit, and other forms
of financial coverage that will assist those declared redundant as a result
of needed structural reforms. Other risks that could surface include
insufficient capacity in public admninistration for satisfactory
implementation (e.g., Romania gets a low score on all three "Quality of
Public Service" ratings) of the program, together with lack of political
will in parts of the administration; here, the role of foreign investment
banks and other agencies will help contain the magnitude of risk. A
final risk is that privatization to foreign buyers under the direction of
foreign advisors and investment banks may be perceived as "giving
away" enterprises to foreigners who seek to benefit from the need to
accelerate reforms while Romanians endure poverty.



vi
Schedule of Disbursements:   Two tranche disbursements: the first immediately after loan
effectiveness (expected in June 1999); the second after the conditions
specified in the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Poverty Category:            Not applicable
Rate of Return:              Not applicable
Project ID Number:           RO-PE-64853
Map
The World Bank Tean [comprised of Khaled Sherif, Yasuo Izumi, Marcelo J. Bueno, Hiran Heart,
Arabela Sena Negulescu, Doina Visa, Sorin Teodoru, Ramin Shojai (all ECSPF); Ronald Hood (PSDBE),
James R Welch (PSDEN), Christof Ruehl (ECSPE), John Innes, Richard Florescu (both ECSHD),
Maurizio Ragazzi (LEGEC), and Sanjay Sinha (ECSEG)] wish to thank the Romanian Authorities for their
collaboration in preparing the proposed Private Sector Adjustment Loan. The team would also like to
thank their colleagues in the International Monetary Fund's Romania Team for their collaboration.



vii
ROMANIA: PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I          INTRODUCTION ......................................................1
II   RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND CHALLENGES TO
STRUCTURAL REFORM  .....................................................2
Recent Economic Developments .....................................................2
Challenges to Structural Reform .....................................................4
III        THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR .....................................................8
Reform  Efforts to Date and Enterprise Sector Problems ...........................8
Government Program  for Enterprise Reform .......................................... 10
Privatization and divestiture of large state-owned enterprises ........... 11
Privatization of small and medium  firms ............................................ 12
Divestiture and reduction of losses of loss-making enterprises ........... 12
Strengthening the environment for private sector development ......... 13
The PSAL and Enterprise Sector Reform ................................................ 14
IV         THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ....................................................                     16
Overview  of Financial Sector Reforms and Problems ............................... 16
Government Program  for Financial Sector Reform .................................. 20
The PSAL and Financial Sector Reform ................................................... 22
v    MITIGATING THE SOCIAL COSTS OF ENTERPRISE
RESTRUCTURING .................................                                                24
VI    MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .................................                                        27
Fiscal Policy .................................                                          28
Monetary Policy .................................                                        29
Balance of Payments and External Debt .................................                  30
The Need for Structural Reforms .................................                        32
VII   THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN ...........................                                                 34
Rationale for Bank's Involvement ...........................                             34
World Bank Group and IMF Support .................................................... 34
Board Presentation and Release of the First and Second Tranches ......... 35
Loan Features and Components ....................................................         36
Monitoring Arrangements ....................................................             36
Environmental Assessment Requirements ................................................ 37
VIII       BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................................                       38
IX         RECOMMENDATION ....................................................                           39
ANNEXES .40
Annex 1: Key Economic Indicators
Annex 2: Time Table of Key Processing Events
Annex 3: Letter of Development
Annex 4: Policy Reform Program Matrix
Annex 5: Country at a Glance
Annex 6: Map



I.    INTRODUCTION
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Private Sector Adjustment
Loan (PSAL) to Romania for US$300 million to provide financial support for the Govemment's
adjustment program. The Loan will be payable after 20 years, which includes a 5-year grace period.
2.       Romania is a lower-middle income country with a population of about 22.5 million. Following
the demise of the previous regime in December 1989, Romania faced a daunting agenda of systemic and
structural reforms in the transition to a market economy. Since then, a large volume of legislation has been
passed establishing new institutions and the fundamental statutory framework required to govern public and
private economies in a market setting.
3.       The proposed adjustment program would build on and complement the reforms already
undertaken by the Government since 1990 supported by the World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan and
the previous FESAL operation. The PSAL aims to stimulate reforms in the following areas:
In the Enterprise Sector:
(a) accelerating state-owned enterprise (SOE) privatization across a wide spectrum of sectors;
(b) enforcing hard budget constraints on remaining SOEs through the closure of big loss-makers
(i.e., mines); and
(c) implementing an action plan to stimulate private sector development and streamline the business
environment.
In the Financial Sector:
(d) strengthening the Romanian banking system;
(e) ensuring that state banks are properly restructured as a prerequisite for their privatization;
(f) ensuring that NBR puts into place the regulations that will improve the overall soundness of the
banking system at large; and
(g) developing further the government securities market.
In the Social Sector:
(h) creating income support programs for displaced workers;
(i) ensuring adequate budgetary resources are made available for such purposes;
(j) improving employment services for displaced workers;
(k) strengthening the social assistance programs for the long-term unemployed and poor; and
(I) informing the general public and the affected workers about the rationale for the reform and the
mitigating support the government is prepared to provide.
Details of the program follow in sections III, IV and V.



2
H. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND CHALLENGES TO
STRUCTURAL REFORM
A. Recent Economic Developments
4.     The transition to a market economy has been a slow and difficult process for Romania. As in all
neighboring countries, the collapse of central planning resulted in an immediate and substantial decline of
output, accompanied by high inflation (Annex 1). Unlike other transition economies, however, the return of
growth was short-lived and subsequently has been reversed. From the first year of recovery until now,
growth has averaged zero, as sharp declines in 1997 (-6.6%) and 1998 (-7.7%) wiped out the progress
made in previous years. Inflation rose again as well, to more than 150% in 1997, before returning to a more
modest level the next year. During this period of transition, a persistent current account deficit
accompanied the path of GDP, culminating in a deficit of 8.1% of GDP in 1998. Romania, which had
started the transition free of external debt, accumulated a net debt to GDP ratio of approximately 30% in
nine years. It faces the imminent threat of a financial and balance-of-payment crisis because of a bunched
repayment schedule in 1999 and structural weakness in the banking sector.
5.     At the heart of this dismal performance is a lack of structural reform in the enterprise sector. The
Romanian economy was more centralized and isolated than other economies in 1989, and market reforms
started more gradually. Opening its industrial sector to competition at world market prices quickly unveiled
that a large portion of the domestic capital stock (including agriculture, utilities, and primary industries)
produced at non competitive prices, given the quality of its output. Nowhere this problem was decisively
addressed. Instead, unabated loss-making was being financed by various forms of subsidization. Initially,
these soft budget constraints led to high rates of inflation, as the economy-wide deficit was monetized by
means of directed credits and exchange rate manipulation. After serious attempts at monetary stabilization
had been made, contingent liabilities (in particular to banks and large public enterprises) continued to grow,
indicating how non-payment had replaced centralized credit. Payment discipline, however, remained
extremely weak.
6.     The results of this weakness are visible today, as arrears between enterprises; arrears from
enterprises to the budget; or, perhaps most dangerous, in the build-up of a large bad-loan portfolio in the
state-owned banking sector' and the parallel build-up of foreign debt. The non-payment of enterprises
obligations, nonperforming bank loans, foreign borrowing and the luring of private savings into subsidizing
the public sector by high interest rate bonds have replaced inflation as the primary source of funding the
losses. But the subsidization of unproductive industries persists. Consequently, the development of a new
private sector has been extraordinarily difficult. The new private sector has been crowded out by high
implicit and explicit taxation, high interest rates, and also by an inconsistent and erratic legislative
framework.
7.     The temporary recovery from 1993 through 1996 was a politically motivated attempt at shoring up
the economy by relaxing monetary and fiscal policies and by exchange rate manipulation, so as to
"recapture" otherwise idle industrial and agricultural capacity. It did little but to increase the inflationary
pressure in the system: The overall public sector deficit surged, and rapid growth of the monetary base
pushed inflation from 28% at end-1995 to 57% at end-1996. This "backtracking" during the election year
of 1996 is indicative of the tenure of the successor of the Communist Party. Hard budget constraints to
induce enterprise restructuring, privatization, and administrative reform all fell prey to the desire of
l Total payments overdue in 1997 are estimated at 35% of GDP.
2 According to IMF staff estimates, the total public sector deficit, including quasi fiscal expenditures by the NBR
reached 8.3 percent in 1996.



3
maintaining control over the economy so as to avoid a further contraction of GDP. Cooperation with
multilateral lenders effectively ceased during that period. Also in 1996, Romania gained its first sovereign
credit rating and thus access to international capital markets. It used this access to replace lost IFI funding
by floating two sovereign bonds - a Eurobond lead managed by Merril Lynch (225 million USD) and a
Samurai bond lead managed by Nomura (50 billion yen, today apprix. 450 million USD).
8.    With the Bulgarian crisis unfolding next door, the electorate opted in favor of an agenda of
economic reform. When the previous ruling party yielded power and a reform-minded government entered
the scene in late 1996, macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms were put on the agenda taken
seriously and for the first time since the start of transition. A 13-month standby arrangement with the IMF
was concluded, and the World Bank committed to support the new government's reform agenda by re-
designing an existing adjustment operation, the FESAL; a new Agricultural Structural Adjustment Loan
(ASAL), and an accompanying Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL). The remaining administered
prices and exchange rates were liberalized as the first steps in economic reform; fiscal and quasi-fiscal
deficits were cut drastically; and privatization and agricultural reform was initiated.
9.    None of these programs met with the expected success. In the second half of 1997 and in particular
during the first half of 1998, structural and macroeconomic reforms slowed, and in some areas, came to a
complete standstill. In 1997, the low implementation capacity of the Romanian administration and also
emerging cracks in the ruling coalition were revealed. The slowdown in economic reforms was due largely
to political infighting, illustrating the power of vested interests and their effectiveness in stalling reform,
especially in the banking and enterprise sector. All key economic ministers were replaced in November and
December, but the withdrawal of support for the coalition by one of its partners and the demand for the
Prime Minister's resignation put the efforts of program implementation on hold. After four months of
virtual standstill, Radu Vasile assumed the post of Prime Minister in April 1998. However, it is only since
the fall of 1998 when the Government became further consolidated under the threat of an imminent external
payment crisis and domestic financial instability that economic reforms have re-entered the agenda of the
new coalition government.
10.   During this period of political uncertainty and turmoil, the IMF's 1997 Standby veered off track. It
expired in May 1998, with Romania having made only two of the five scheduled purchases. The FESAL
closed in April 1998 with the final tranche of US$ 100 million undisbursed. The ASAL went off track and
had to be extended until June 1999. Romania's sovereign credit risk was downgraded repeatedly, and by
now approaches the lowest (default) category.
11.   While a modicum of macroeconomic stability could be maintained throughout 1998,
structural reforms slowed markedly during the period of political infighting. Enterprise losses
continued unabated, with utilities, banks, and the budget acting as the economy's aggregate shock
absorbers. Privatization continued to lag other transition economies, with the State Ownership
Fund (SOF) maintaining a majority of the book value of enterprises allocated to it. Banks' balance
sheets and bad-loan portfolios continued to deteriorate, as financial discipline remained as elusive
for them as for state enterprises in the "real economy". The political stalemate during the first half
of 1998 cost Romania dearly, in terms of missed opportunities to speed up economic reforms and
by affecting its standing with the international community.
12.   Following this deterioration in financial management, the economy still faces the structural
challenges outlined above. Without decisive measures to accelerate restructuring and privatization
of enterprises and banks, Romania has little hope of ending the current economic decline. Without
improved conditions for carrying out business, a new private sector will not emerge with the
speed necessary to support the resumption of economic growth.



4
13.   In addition, Romania now teeters on the verge of a financial and balance-of-payments
crisis in conjunction with a bunched repayment schedule for private external debt, and structural
weaknesses of the banking sector. Market expectations for Romania to overcome its short term
difficulties and to avoid a breakdown. of its financial system are low at this point. Without the
confidence building announcement of a Bank! INM program, the situation is likely to become
critical in a matter of months.
14.   However, reforms have resumed in Romania since the fall of 1998. Starting last fall,
privatization was accelerated substantially, banking reforms progressed, a budget in accordance
with guidelines established by the IMF was voted into effect by Parliament, and substantive
negotiations with the IFI have resumed. The Government has explicitly requested our support in
its desire to accelerate the reform momentum further.
15    The following paragraphs discuss the Bank's strategy to avert a financial crisis and to
support the stated willingness of the Government to accelerate economic reform by means of a
Private Sector Adjustment Loan. Our aim is to reconcile the immediate need for, measures to build
confidence and to avert the crisis threat with urgent structural reforms to improve Romania's
prospects over the medium term. The proposed PSAL is the core of this strategy. It targets
effective short term crisis management, the urgency of immediate structural reform, and the need
to better the environment for economic reforms in the future. Short-term crisis prevention, the
kick-start of urgent structural reforms, and the possibility of re-igniting long-term measures to
improve the business environment are the goals of the proposed operation.
B. Challenges to Structural Reform
16.   The conditionalities designed to accomplish these goals focus on three key areas of
structural reform. The first is to accelerate the restructuring of the banking sector and to initiate
the privatization of the state-owned banks. The second is to speed up enterprise privatization and
liquidation and to foster the imposition of economy-wide financial discipline and hard budget
constraints. Third, the PSAL is designed to support growth of the new private sector by
improving the private business environment in Romania. The program also includes social
protection measures to mitigate the adverse effects of accelerated economic reform on the
vulnerable parts of the population.
17.   The need to safeguard against an imminent financial and balance-of-payments crisis
derives from three main risk factors: the bunching of external debt repayments in 1999; the
insolvency of large state owned banks, compounded by continuing large losses of public sector
entities; and a currency mismatch in the commercial banking system (cf. section VI below). The
underlying structural weakness of the economy affects the financial sector, the enterprise sector,
and the administrative capabilities of the authorities (cf. section III, IV, V below).
18.   The threat of a short-term crisis relates to the fact that the country's sovereign external
debt repayment schedule for 1999 exceeds its repayment capacity. In the absence of new funding,
meeting the obligations will deplete foreign currency reserves to levels that could trigger a run
against the currency. Romania currently has large external imbalances and has to guard against
pressures on its reserves originating from speculation against the Lei. The prospects of refinancing



5
Romania's external obligations in the international capital markets are not good, as its sovereign
risk ratings have deteriorated. However, this prospect would improve from an announced
agreement with the IFIs.
19.   The domestic banking system is in a precarious position. It is dominated by large state-
owned banks. The sector is vulnerable to public perceptions of insolvency or illiquidity. Since the
beginning of transition, banks acted as governmental agents in various ways. They distributed
directed credits, intervened in the exchange market, and accumulated enterprise losses. As a
result, their loan portfolio continues to deteriorate and in particular two banks have had to be
bailed out repeatedly (Bancorex, the former foreign trade bank, and Banca Agricola, the bank
servicing the agricultural sector). The National Bank financed the losses of state-owned banks by
extending loans or by intermediating large scale bail outs (in 1997, to the tune of USD 1 billion).
In addition, these banks were forced to access the inter-bank market which lead to pressure on
interest rates.
20.   Besides poor portfolios, commercial banks are characterized by an alarming currency
mismatch. Foreign currency deposits are two and a half times larger than reserves in the
commercial banking sector. And while forex deposits are roughly equivalent to credits
denominated in foreign exchange, borrowers on the whole are neither foreign exchange eaming
nor hedged. Clearly, the system is not able to withstand a sudden demand for hard currency on the
part of depositors. It remains crucial to bolster market confidence.
21.   In the enterprise sector, a large number of loss-making enterprises persist and progress in
privatization has been limited. Agriculture has not been revived with the unresolved issue of the
restitution of land blocking further progress. Utilities remain unable to collect their bills and are
not forced to cut-off delinquent customers. The banking system is fragile, as banks have been
forced to absorb enterprise losses. Moreover, the regulatory environment is inadequate and the
supervisory capacity is weak. This extends to the area of liquidation and bankruptcy law, with
current legislation preventing liquidation from being implemented effectively. One of the most
important goals of the new PSAL is to address the core issues currently blocking the imposition
of financial discipline on the economy.
22.   On both the fiscal and the monetary side, there is a lack of instruments to effectively
control macroeconomic aggregates. The tax regime is still built around a wage and profit tax
(with no global income tax), which impedes attempts at revenue collection beyond traditionally
registered activities. On the expenditure side, old entitlements compete with insufficient means of
redistribution, with social funds, the unemployment fund (etc.), organized under different line
ministries. Romania has not yet established a functioning secondary market for government
securities, leaving attracting time deposits as the NBR's measure of choice to conduct open
market policy. There is no interministerial body to coordinate the implementation of reforms that
affect more than one line ministry. The willingness and ability of different government bodies and
departments to cooperate remains limited. In addition, the existing civil service administration
suffers from an exodus of qualified pdople. The Government's implementation capacity then is
restricted. The PSAL operation addresses these issues, starting with the installation of an
interministerial Project Management Unit (PMU) at the PM's office and include the support of
long-term institutional reforms.



6
23.   The proposed adjustment operation has as its primary goals the restructuring of the
banking system to avert the immediate threat of a financial crisis, and the initiation of the overall
restructuring and planned privatization of state-owned banks in Romania. Second, by developing
a credible program of enterprise closures as well as steps to harden budget constraints throughout
the economy, it plans to accelerate privatization and address the problem of loss-making
enterprises and the lack of financial discipline. Acknowledgement of the fledging character of the
Romanian economy and the continued contraction of output leads to the urgent need of
supporting growth of the relatively small private sector. To this end, the PSAL matrix contains
measures designed to enhance the business climate. Finally, the proposed operation recognizes the
acute need in Romania to safeguard those adversely affected by an acceleration of economic
reforms by providing measures of social protection.
24.   Financial sector restructuring. This part of the program sets indispensable and up-front
conditions for crisis management (such as the liquidation of Bancorex), and combines them with
support of the Government's stated long-term goal of privatizing the state banks. Several banks
are prepared for privatization, and the legal environment (bank privatization law) is strengthened
to make these privatizations possible in time. In addition, the program provides a road map for
the establishment of a functioning secondary market for government securities, indispensable for
strengthening the tools of economic policy at the disposal of the NBR.
25.   Enterprise divestiture. The program sets targets for improving financial discipline by
accelerating enterprise liquidations (including mines) and privatization (including the beginning of
privatization in the utility sector). The measures included in the matrix will cut aggregate losses
in the economy (including subsidies) by approximately 22%. In addition, the matrix calls for
several variants of privatization, including case-by-case privatization of large loss-makers (such as
the national airlines or the country's largest steel factory) and the novel approach of pooling
companies to sell or liquidate them by legally empowering a consortia of sales agents to conclude
the sale/work-out process. A new privatization law will, as an up-front condition, facilitate
privatization and improve upon the existing liquidation and bankruptcy procedures.
26.   Improvement of the business environment. A number of laws will provide for an
immediate improvement in the pursuit of private sector transactions, among them a secured
transaction law and the reform of the law regulating the Court of Accounts. In addition, the
program aims to change key legal areas where private business is currently most impaired: It is
preparing for comprehensive tax reform by the introduction of a global income tax and prepares
the introduction of international accounting standards. In both areas, reforms need to be carefully
worked out, so that the envisaged changes in the legal environment do not result in further
disruption and increased confusion about the rules under which business transactions have to be
carried out. The program will implement the results of a study designed to reduce bureaucracy
and to streamline the administrative procedures currently blocking private sector activities.
27.   Mitigation of social costs. Implementation of the program will be accompanied by
measures to protect the short-term losers of economic reform, especially those affected by the
downsizing and closure of enterprises. To this end, unemployment benefits, severance payments,
and the availability of micro credits to enable the victims of industrial restructuring to remain
economically active will be reorganized. Adequate financing from the state budget has to be
insured to cope with the unexpectedly large numbers of workers and their families affected by the
planned acceleration of reform on the enterprise level. In addition, adequate ways and means



7
have been identified to strengthen the safety net for the long term unemployed and society's
poorest members.
28.   Long-term perspective. The program has several long-term components designed to
better the preconditions for reform in the future. While our intention is to prepare the ground-
work for their implementation now, many will not surface until after a successful conclusion of
the PSAL and a follow-up operations can be implemented. Among them are: sustained tax
reform, including the implementation of a global (individual and corporate) income tax as the
foundation toward which other laws and regulations will be adjusted; pension reform, including
the implementation of a modem pension system with a private component; civil service reform,
including the overhaul of the existing administrative structures necessary to enhance the
Government's ability to improve the implementation record for sustainable economic development
in the future.



8
m. THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Reform Efforts to Date and Enterprise Sector Problems
29.    Early Developments. The first step  in the reform  of the enterprise sector was the
commercialization of SOEs, a process that was completed by mid-1991. This resulted in two types of
enterprises:
*  Regies Autonomes (RAs): These are natural monopolies of public interest or essential for national
defense and security that are not intended to be privatized. As of November 1995, there were
around 400 RAs. Of these, 44 were public utilities owned by the state. The remaining 350 were
"local service" RAs owned by local authorities, municipalities, and other administrative units that
were to be reduced through mergers and reorganization.
*  Commercial Companies (CCs): 6,300 joint-stock companies were corporatized in 1990-1991. The
capital of each was split between the State Ownership Fund (SOF), which owned 70%, and one of
five private ownership funds (POFs) holding the remaining 30%. The SOF is a government agency
that exercises ownership rights on behalf of the state until the CCs are privatized. The five POFs
were formally owned by all Romanian citizens to whom certificates of ownership (COs),
representing shares of the POFs, were distributed freely in 1992. The POFs were transformed into
private investment funds by early 1997.
30.   In 1995, SOEs (CCs and RAs) accounted for approximately 68.6% of employment and output. By
June 1998, SOEs accounted for less than 40% of total employment and output. The output of the
industrial sector, composed almost fully of SOEs, fell by half between 1989 and 1992 due to the collapse
of the CMEA and the drop in trade with the former Soviet Union. Industrial production increased by an
average of about 2% per annum in 1993-1994, and grew faster over 1995-1996. However, due to the lack
of structural adjustment, industrial production fell again by 6% in 1997, and 17% in 1998. Future
prospects remain gloomy, with a 4% decline projected for 1999.
31.    SOEs' aggregate profitability (before tax) declined from 15% of revenues in 1990 to 5% in 1993
and to 0.6% in 1994. The actual financial situation of the SOE sector may have been substantially worse
than what was indicated by these ratios. Costs were underestimated, because they were based on historical
cost accounting, and depreciation charges were too low. Also, in 1994, enterprises made very limited
provisions against uncollectable accounts receivable at a time when payment arrears were a major problem.
On a cash flow basis-which gives a more accurate picture of their financial health-the SOE sector
generated an aggregate negative operating cash flow of around 6% of GDP. These numbers have very
likely worsened in the last two to three years, as indicated by the liquidity problems faced by enterprises
viewed as insolvent.
32.    To continue operating, the largest loss-makers financed their operations by building up arrears with
suppliers, the State Treasury, banks, and, occasionally, their payroll. The Romanian authorities' initial
reaction to the accumulation of arrears, like other transition economies, was to "net out" the stock of
arrears with a "Global Compensation Scheme" (Law 80 of December 1991). Credit was injected into the
economy in early 1992 via credits extended by commercial banks to debtors, who were compelled to use the
proceeds to pay down their arrears. Soon after, it became clear that arrears would again begin to
accumulate unless incentives were created to force enterprises to maintain financial discipline. In fact,
some large loss-making companies have continued to accumulate arrears, in spite of the Government's
commitmnent not to undertake any further compensation schemes.  In 1994-1995, payment arrears



9
amounted to 23.3% and 24.4% of GDP, respectively. By 1997, they increased significantly to 28.3% of
GDP.
33.    Several measures were taken to improve financial discipline in the enterprise sector.  The
legislative basis for enforcing repayment was strengthened, and there is evidence that it is increasingly
being applied. The Commercial Code and other relevant legislation is already adequate to enable creditors
to establish and realize security, to force borrowers into bankruptcy, to enable creditors to cooperate with
the SOF in placing bankrupt companies into liquidation, and to use the threat of taking such actions to
force borrowers into implementing restructuring and other solutions agreed upon with their creditors. Since
1992, creditors have been charging interest penalties on arrears, presently 0.15% per diem, as provided for
in Law 76/1992, the passage of which was agreed under the SAL. Creditors, notably banks, are initiating
a growing number of court actions to declare debtors insolvent and to realize their security, if necessary, by
public auction of the delinquent debtors' assets. A new Bankruptcy Law was passed by the Parliament in
May 1995. This new law included a stay on collection actions against a debtor on the initiation of
proceedings, provisions for a reorganization plan, and priority in asset claims for post-bankruptcy
creditors. Finally, privatization, by improving efficiency and strengthening corporate governance, was
expected to contribute to enhanced financial discipline in the sector. However, further improvements to the
legal framnework for bankruptcy are necessary to make the system more efficient.
34.   Recent Developments. Earlier measures have proved incomplete, as evidenced by Romania's
continuing need for restructuring and privatization in the enterprise sector. While the FESAL sought to
apply financial pressure through banking and financial service reforms to serve as a catalyst for enterprise
privatization and restructuring, two broad weaknesses undermined efforts to achieve all objectives under
the FESAL: (i) government support and commitment was lacking; and (ii) the imposition of financial
discipline in the real sector was undermined by the run-up of arrears, the rollover of loans that were not
serviced, the provision of new loans to loss-makers, and the inadequate support infrastructure (e.g.,
efficient court procedures, market-based valuation standards, professional liquidation companies) which
made it difficult for banks and other intermediaries to collect on loans. As such, the "muddle-through"
approach persisted and ultimately failed, prompting more definitive recognition by GOR of the need for
meaningful reform. Developments in recent years suggest that the enterprise sector has been hampered in
the following ways:
-  General market conditions have not been conducive to growth and profitability. Consumer
purchasing power has remained low, limiting potential for volume expansion and steady
movement towards higher value-added products/services. Supplies have not always been
reliable, undercutting the ability of agricultural and manufacturing firms to operate. The run-
up of payment arrears has weakened inter-enterprise relationships and undermined efficiency.
In general, the enviromnent has been a difficult one in which to operate.
* Romanian firms frequently have limited earnings and capital, making it difficult for them to
make new investments to be competitive. Income statements and balance sheets are distorted
by fictitious revenues, inadequate depreciation charges, and accounting standards that do not
adequately adjust values for inflation. Firms' inability to raise additional equity from the
private capital market has resulted in an increase in the indebtedness of companies to very high
levels, even when compared to Asian economies. At the same time, much of the debt is not
serviced, which undermines creditworthiness and now makes it more difficult to obtain new
funds from debt or equity sources. Such a negative spiral affects investment in needed fixed
assets and systems, as well as on more immediate working capital needs. This weakness in
cash flow has adversely affected the banks, and created a vicious cycle in which enterprises fail
(and/or are unable) to service their debts, prompting a run-up of arrears that undermines
creditworthiness with banks and suppliers.



10
*  Banks and investors have been increasingly unwilling to expose themselves to risk due to weak
enforcement of creditor/shareholder rights. This has been most evident in loan collection
efforts. Such weaknesses undercut incentives for financial institutions to take risks, curtailing
the supply of financing available for the real sector.
* Credit to the non-government sector in 1997 increased in nominal terms by 34%, but it
declined in real terms by 47%. Lei-denominated credit declined abruptly by 4% in nominal
terms, or 62% in real terms. The steeper decline in the Lei component of credit in relation to
overall credit to the non-government sector is explained only by the depreciation of the Lei
against the US dollar from Lei 4,035 per US dollar at end-1996 to Lei 8,023 per US dollar at
end-1997. Such credit has become less available as the economy has worsened, and as anti-
inflationary policies and tightened prudential regulations have reduced the availability of
banks' funds for on-lending to loss-making enterprises. Alternatively, when banks were
providing more funds to loss-making enterprises, they had less available for viable private
enterprises. Thus, firms that might have been creditworthy were still unable to access adequate
funding because of the allocation of lending flows to loss-making SOEs. The percentage of
new lending to the private sector as a share of total credit has increased in recent years, but the
overall level of credit to the private sector has been limited.
*  Financing the GOR fiscal deficit has reduced available credit to the private sector. In the recent
past, the three large state-owned banks-Bancorex, RCB, BA, and the bank, RBD -on
aggregate have provided over 75% of credit to the private sector. The share of loans to the
private sector in total loans extended by these banks ranges from 25% in RCB to 60% in RBD.
However, the overall decline in credit availability, coupled with the recent increases in
government financing (investment in government securities instead of lending to the enterprise
sector) by these banks, has resulted in the squeezing out of the private sector from the credit
market. The customer loan portfolio of these banks has declined to below 40% of their total
assets.
B. Government Program for Enterprise Reform
35.    The GOR's program for enterprise reform is based on four key components: (i) privatization and
divestiture of large SOEs; (ii) privatization of SMEs; (iii) divestiture and reduction of losses of loss-making
enterprises, particularly in the mining sector; and (iv) development of a more conducive environment in
support of overall private sector development. Privatization, the strengthening of the hard budget constraint
faced by SOEs, and improving the governance of enterprises are the focal points of this program. In
particular, clear ownership rights via privatization is considered necessary for operational and managerial
efficiency and financial discipline to take hold at the enterprise level. By focusing on these priorities and
issues, GOR expects to contribute to a more stable macroeconomic framework by reducing fiscal deficits
and the access of loss-makers to budgetary funds; providing an improved incentive framework through
clearer ownership rights, governance structures, and management accountability; enhancing the
creditworthiness of firms by requiring modern management techniques and better accounting and reporting;
providing the financial sector with a better choice of projects (and methods of imparting financial
discipline) by increasing lenders' rights to collect on loans (see Section IV); and establishing a more
positive environment for investment and growth by strengthening judicial institutions, improving the
regulatory framework, and making the tax burden less cumbersome and costly while expanding the fiscal
base. These represent an important change of heart on the part of GOR, which now recognizes that
financial sector reforrn alone is insufficient to transform Romania's economy into a competitive European
economy. Each is discussed below.



11
(i)    Privatization and divestiture of large state-owned enterprises
36.    For large state-owned enterprises, a program of case-by-case privatization, liquidation, and work-
out will be initiated to stem losses and introduce new ownership and management. The goals of this
prograrn include: (i) reducing payment arrears to utilities, other commercial creditors, and the budget; (ii)
supporting financial sector restructuring by preventing insolvency due to the unpaid debt of loss-making,
state-owned companies; (iii) starting to eliminate the fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs of supporting loss-
makers; (iv) starting to enforce hard budget constraints; (v) increasing the efficiency of large industrial
enterprises by attracting new investment and new owners; and (vi) providing a credible signal to the market
that reforms are being pursued in Romania. As conditions for Board presentation or first tranche release of
the PSAL, GOR will have identified and designated for liquidation large SOEs responsible for 15% of
losses (including State subsidies); enacted a new privatization law and regulations; issued tenders for
investment banks to serve as financial advisors for four large privatizations, and an additional tender for
shares in a major oil company; and selected an additional 50 large SOEs for privatization, of which 30 will
be privatized in 1999. All of these measures are expected to clarify the financial position of large SOEs (i-
iv), and contribute to market development and competitiveness (v-vi) by cutting off loss-makers from their
traditional sources of financing.
37.    Short-term Actions. To accelerate privatization, the government will take the following steps.
First, Parliament is expected to pass a new privatization law in agreement with the World Bank. GOR is
expected to adopt norms, in consultation with the Bank, to implement this law. This new law will permit
the use of sales agents, forbid the setting of minimum sales prices, require the provision of adequate
warranties, improve administrative liquidations, and contain provisions for debt work-out and forgiveness
of state debt. Second, using an international tender and World Bank procurement rules, GOR will initiate
tenders to hire investment banks to privatize four key enterprises: TAROM, the national airline; SIDEX,
the country's largest steel-maker, which currently employs over 30,000 but is in poor financial condition
and represents a steady drain on government/banks' resources; and two significant aluminum companies,
ALRO and ALPROM. Third, GOR will agree to the privatization of at least 30 large SOF companies
through the use of five pools of 10 companies each, tendered to international sales agents. Fourth, GOR
will issue a contract to privatize COMTIM (or move it into liquidation proceedings), all in an effort to
resolve its $82 million in debt and to break the link in state financing of this loss-maker through Banca
Agricola. Fifth, the GOR will privatize at least 30 large enterprises in 1999. Sixth, the GOR will privatize
40 state companies in which it holds residual shares (as a condition of Board presentation). Thus, all of
these measures are expected to have an impact in 1999, or set the stage for impact shortly thereafter.
In addition, GOR has selected an international investment bank to privatize at least 35% of the
total capital of SNP Petrom, including new shares.
38.   In reference to the commitment to privatize 30 companies using pools (mentioned above), firms
will need to be offered in pools to attract sales agents because of the poor condition of many of the large
firms and the low value of many of the smaller ones. GOR is making its selection of sales agents based on
an international tender and World Bank procurement procedures.
39.   Medium-term Actions. The Government will follow six steps in the medium term: first, selling an
additional 15 large enterprises representing 2.5% of SOF capital stock; second, completing the tenders
and conclude the contracts for at least three of the four large enterprises (TAROM, SIDEX, ALRO,
ALPROM) with international investment banks, with the intention to privatize them; third, selecting five
large state-owned enterprises for privatization, and appointing, through international tender, investment
banks to carry out such privatizations; fourth, selecting five large state-owned enterprises for work-
out/liquidation and appointing international liquidators to carry out such work-out/liquidation; fifth,
appointing sale agents for pool privatization for at least 30 out of the 50 large state-owned companies



12
agreed upon with the GOR; and sixth, privatizing another 160 companies in which the state holds residual
shares on the RASDAQ market, or by other methods. Additionally, new shares issued by the national oil
company, PETROM, will be offered for sale.
(ii)    Privatization of small and medium firms
40.    The SOF will undertake a more rapid pace of privatization and liquidation of small- and medium-
sized firms. This trend has already been in evidence since the FESAL closing date (April 30, 1998), about
the time GOR decentralized SME privatization by allowing regional branches of the SOF to handle the
process. At the time, 3,030 small- and 844 medium-sized firms had been privatized. By-end 1998, there
were 3,823 small-scale firms and 1,066 medium-sized firms that had been privatized, representing an
increase of 1,015 firms in the last eight months of 1998; the eight-month increase accounts for 20% of total
privatizations in Romania, representing both a significant increase in the pace of privatization and
recognition that there is now political will to see the process through. The goals of this prograrn are to
increase the share of the private sector in GDP, to promote efficiency by strengthening links between
private enterprises, to increase diversity in production, and to provide alternative opportunities for
employment and demonstration effects.
41.   Short-term Actions. GOR will privatize 250 of the small- and medium-sized enterprise portfolio,
which represents about 1.3 % of the total equity portfolio of the SOF. GOR has already demonstrated
significant commitment in this regard since the closing of the FESAL; about 1,000 SMEs were privatized
in less than a year's time.
42.    Medium-term Actions. GOR will continue with the privatization of an additional 600 small- and
medium-sized firms, which represents 14.5% (2.5% of capital stock) of the number of remaining
enterprises in the SOF portfolio. Thus, by the end of the program, 850 small- and medium-sized
companies will be privatized, which represents 4% of the total equity stock of the SOF portfolio. Together
with the large enterprises, the SOF will have privatized at least 9% of the total equity stock portfolio since
January 1999.
(iii)   Divestiture and reduction of losses of loss-making enterprises
43.    The mining sector in particular represents a significant share of the losses in the state-owned
economy-estimated at 29.9% for mid-1998. Although significant cost reduction measures have already
been taken (e.g., closure of 113 mines, collective lay-offs of about 81,500 employees, corporatization of
four mining regies), the financial performance of this sector continues to deteriorate.  Strengthened
financial discipline is required in this sector, and in SOEs in general, to stem losses that have had a severe
negative impact on declining overall economic output, rising fiscal deficits, still-high inflation rates, and a
weakening exchange rate. At the structural level, strengthened financial discipline is needed to restore
creditworthiness (from banks and suppliers), and equity interest on the part of private investors. These
realities are recognized by GOR, and given greater urgency in light of the weak reserve position of the
government in the face of spiraling debt and the need for restructuring with international creditors. At a
minimum, there is broad recognition of the need for increased flows of external financing to stabilize the
balance-of-payments position. Thus, the authorities are now prepared to create conditions more conducive
to foreign direct investment as a way to strengthen reserves and the balance of payments, and to attract the
needed management and links to markets that will help restore some of Romania's foregone
competitiveness.
44.    Short-term actions. The GOR now recognizes the importance of taking firm action on loss-making
SOEs. Thus, (i) to achieve an annual reduction equivalent to at least a 25% loss reduction in real terms,
GOR will cut costs for mining companies by reducing subsidies, closing inefficient mines, and further



13
reducing labor costs; (ii) GOR will also contract the technical closure of at least 10 mines, to include
environmnental mitigation, so that the cost of conservation is reduced or eliminated; and (iii) GOR will
initiate the liquidation of state-owned commercial companies that generate at least 15% of SOF losses.
Such bold moves in a traditionally difficult and politically sensitive sector represent the determination of
GOR to follow through on needed and long deferred structural reform efforts, a commitment that was not
sufficiently in place during the FESAL.
45.    Medium-term actions. The GOR will appoint the liquidators or terminate the operations of state-
owned enterprises that account for at least 12% of losses in the portfolio (including subsidies), and contract
the technical closure and environmental work with respect to 35 mines.
(iv) Strengthening the environment for private sector development
46.   Improving the business environment remains one of the key components of the PSAL. In this area,
GOR has six primary goals: (i) pass and promulgate a secured transaction law for movable property; (ii)
reforrn direct taxes to improve efficiency, equity, and the administration of (and compliance with) the direct
tax system; (iii) improve the business environment through regulatory reform, enhancement of business
services, and rationalization of the incentive system; (iv) introduce a more efficient and effective system of
bankruptcy and liquidation to assist with private sector restructuring and to help deal with non-perforning
enterprises; (v) implement sound, internationally-recognized accounting standards and financial audit
requirements; and (vi) amend the Court of Accounts law.
47.    Short-term Actions. A draft law of Security Interest in Movable Property has been prepared by a
team of Romanian and international experts. This draft has been discussed with numerous Romanian
constituencies and has the strong support of the private and financial sectors. While introducing modem
secured transaction notions and instruments, the draft is consistent with Romanian legal system and
traditions. GOR will present a draft Law, in consultation with the World Bank, to Parliament. Further,
GOR expects to develop options, consistent with the draft Law, for the registration of security interests in
movable property, again in consultation with the World Bank.
48.    To improve the business environment, GOR will take steps to streamline regulatory and
administrative practices, regularize the system of incentives, and enhance the quality of business services.
The GOR will conduct a comprehensive study of the business environment to identify the constraints faced
by foreign and domestic enterprises, and formulate a plan to remove constraints and reform relevant laws,
regulations, and administrative practices. While GOR has agreed to comparable moves in the past, there is
currently greater resolve to remove these constraints in light of the balance-of-payments strain Romania is
currently experiencing, and the recognition that sustainability of a stable macroeconomic framework
requires an enabling environment for private investment. In addition, the government will amend the Court
of Accounts law.
49.    To introduce a more effective and efficient system of bankruptcy, GOR will repeal EO 58 and
adopt the proposed amendments to Bankruptcy legislation to accommodate privatization. GOR will also
authorize the Reform Commission to review and propose further bankruptcy reformns. Such strengthening
of measures, as reflected in the GOR decision to liquidate key enterprises that can not be privatized, are
indications that GOR expects to use bankruptcy and liquidation as tools of enterprise and financial sector
restructuring and privatization. The intensified threat of bankruptcy and liquidation are also intended to
instill far greater financial discipline on firms, and to provide for easier removal of, and stricter penalties
for, management and board members guilty of errant management and criminal behavior.
50.   In the area of accounting standards, GOR will provide an Order of the Ministry of Finance
approving the Accounting System Development Framework and the International Standards Conceptual



14
Framework (volumes I and II). In addition, the Government will pass the Law on Financial Audit.
Programs for enhancing the capacity of professionals in accounting and auditing to implement the
intemational standards are being developed. In support of these measures, the government will develop a
program to train local accountants, auditors, and academics, and to produce necessary training material.
;3 n    Medium-term Actions. The Government will enact the Law on Security Interest in Personal
Property and will issue adequate rules of implementation for this law. GOR will implement an option
consistent with the above law for the registration of security interests in movable property, in consultation
with the World Bank. All of these measures are expected to improve access to financing and provide banks
and other lenders with greater legal recourse to assets for loan recovery in the event of borrower default. In
turn, this is expected to increase the willingness of banks to assume credit risk over time, and to instill
greater discipline on enterprises to avoid loss of assets as a result of loan default. Such measures will also
provide for enhanced governance, as equity holders in enterprises stand to lose assets if operations are
mismanaged (as manifested by a firm's inability to service or repay debt, to identify risks early on and
communicate these risks to exposed lenders, or to come to an agreed work-out plan with exposed creditors
without having to endure a liquidation scenario).
52.   In the area of direct taxation and with the assistance of technical advisors, GOR will complete
studies that support the introduction of a global income tax system and a revised corporate income tax.
The studies will include assessment of existing tax administration capacity, the impact of the tax system on
revenues, and the impact on business incentives and profitability. The studies will also provide analysis of
institutional capacity-building requirements for a more sustainable fiscal policy. This is crucial in light of
the high level of gray sector transactions that currently take place in Romania.
53.    Once the studies of the business environment are completed, GOR will take the necessary steps to
implement the recommended actions. The GOR would adopt bylaws, acceptable to the World Bank, for
the Borrowers Audit Chamber.
C.    The PSAL and Enterprise Sector Reform
54.   There is broad recognition in governnent and in the real sector that modern management
techniques-bolstered by accountable and responsible governance, and driven by meaningful ownership
stakes-are necessary for Romania to compete in the next century. In the past, these issues have been
deferred as a result of political divisions, skepticism of market reforms, and fears of dislocation and unrest.
55.    The PSAL aims to strengthen financial discipline in much the same way as intended by the
FESAL, but to ensure that it is more rigorously applied at the enterprise level as well. This process has
already begun with the hardening of budget constraints, but is currently insufficient for the restoration of
sustainable growth in the economy.
56.    One of the objectives of the PSAL program of the Government of Romania is to provide $300
million in balance-of-payments support to facilitate and accelerate the restructuring, privatization, and
liquidation (where needed) of a group of firms. These transactions will involve more than 109 large
enterprises via the tender process of other means; 200 SOF privatizations using the RASDAQ; and 850
SMEs in the SOF portfolio. These actions are designed to ultimately enhance the private sector's role in
the economy, and to put public finances on a more sustainable path. The strategy for achieving this
objective is predicated on the transfer of state-owned assets to the private sector, and the creation of an
environment conducive to private sector growth and development, thereby establishing a viable fiscal base.
57.    By pursuing accelerated enterprise privatization and reform, the PSAL is putting corporate
restructuring at the top of the agenda in recognition of performnance weaknesses under the FESAL. These
reforms are considered necessary for financial sector reforms to be effective, and for macroeconomic



15
stability to be restored. It is the view of the PSAL that sustained GOR commitment to enterprise
privatization is an absolute prerequisite for successful PSAL implementation. The agreement with GOR
reflects such a commitment, a commitment that was not apparent during implementation under the FESAL.
The enterprise privatization strategy under the PSAL is designed to unblock constraints to enterprise access
to finance by improving management and transforming the incentive structure. Two key components in this
direction are: (i) the privatization and divestiture of large state-owned enterprises; and (ii) the privatization
and divestiture of small and medium firms. Between April, 1998 (the FESAL closing date) and the end of
1998, 1,077 state-owned companies were privatized, of which 62 were large (such as Romtelecom,
Romaero, Sometra, Petrotel, etc.). The Government is committed to accelerate the privatization of both
large as well as medium and small companies. Thus, between January 1, 1999 and May 31, 1999, another
30 large companies and 250 medium-size enterprises will have been privatized. These measures, which
address a broad array of enterprises, including politically sensitive companies and sectors, send a clear
signal that ownership, management, and govemance need to change.



16
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Overview of Financial Sector Reforms and Problems
58.    Overview. The reforn of Romania's banking system was initiated in 1990, when entry to the
banking sector was liberalized and the two-tier banking system was established. The commercial activities
of the NBR were assigned to the Romanian Conunercial Bank (RCB), allowing the NBR to concentrate on
its function as the monetary authority. Despite the entry of foreign banks and the establishment of several
Romanian domestic private banks, four large state-owned commercial banks- Romanian Development
Bank (RDB), Romanian Commnercial Bank (RCB), Banca Agricola (BA), and Bancorex (BX)-still
dominate the sector, accounting for about two-thirds of the banking system's total assets and total credits in
mid-1998. The Savings Bank (CEC), which once had a monopoly over household deposits, now accounts
for only 35% of deposits and its share of the system's total assets has fallen to 8.4%. However, after seven
years of immobility, CEC is now being converted into a full-service savings bank with technical assistance
from the Deutsche Sparkasse.
59.    As of December 31, 1997, there were 45 banks licensed by the NBR, of which 35 were open to the
public and operating normally; three3 had their operations effectively suspended, pending reorganization or
liquidation; and seven (mostly foreign-owned) were preparing to open. As of 12/31/98, the number of
banks licensed by NBR had increased to over 50. The table below summarizes the segmentation of the
principal balance sheet aggregates as of 09/30/98 among the three categories of banks:
ROL billions     Lei deposits  iFX deposits by  Lei loans to   FX loans to   Total assets
by customers  customers   _non-gvt        non-gvt
State-owned           33,849.7       12,254.9     17,968.2      18,462.3     88,137.4
Pnvate Romanian        5,571.4        3,602.5       3983.6       5,726.1     21,384.6
Foreign/mixed          2,339.5        5,905.1        696.0       4,035.4     14,222.6
Totals                41,760.6       21,762.5     22,647.7      28,223.8    123,744.6
$Million               4,520.5        2,355.8      2,451.6       3,055.2     13,395.2
3   The three banks whose operations are effectively suspended are Dacia Felix Bank, Credit Bank, and Columna
Bank.
4   USD equivalent calculated using the parity USD 1 = ROL 9,238.



17
The segmentation of the banking industry in Romania as of 09/30/98 is summarized in the table below.
Banks / segments          Lei deposits   FX deposits    Lei loans   FX loans non-  Total assets
09/30/985                     by            by         non-govt.    govt. (%)        (%/0)
Customers   Customers (%)     (%)
(%)
RCB                              28.3           19.4        32.6           11.2         20.3
RBD                              10.6            7.0        19.4            3.7          8.0
BANCOREX                          8.1           24.2         7.7           47.4         20.5
Banca Agricola                   12.7            2.9         9.2            2.3          9.0
Banc Post                         3.5            2.3         5.0            0.2          2.4
Savings Bank (CEC)               17.6            0.0         5.1            0.0          9.5
Eximbank                          0.3            0.5         0.4            0.6          1.4
State-owned banks                81.1           56.3        79.3           65.4         71.2
Private banks owned by           13.3            16.6       17.6           20.3         17.3
Romanian capital6
Foreign banks & mixed             5.6           27.1         3.4            14.3        11.5
foreign Romanian                      I_I
Private banks                    18.9           43.7        20.7           34.6         28.8
All banks (except NBR)            100            100         100            100          100
60.    Banks still represent the bulk of financial activity and funding to commercial companies, even
following the credit crunch of 1997-1998. The capital markets' have been used to render tradable the
shares in companies acquired by Romanian citizens under the mass privatization program, but not to raise
significant amounts of new capital. The secondary markets in government securities have so far been slow
to develop. For the enterprise sector, the declining availability of bank credit has not been replaced by
other funding sources, owing to the broad lack of public confidence in the banks and the consequent
withholding of potential deposits; except for a modest inflow of foreign direct investment, there has been
limited incremental funding in the last two years for enterprises, so inter-enterprise arrears have continued
to grow.
61.    Current legislation is not conducive to the establishment and development of leasing and venture
capital firms. On the contrary, the current leasing tax and depreciation legislation are a deterrent to the
development of such activities. The low return on most equities, typically well below both the inflation rate
and the high nominal interest rate on bank deposits, has rendered portfolio investment in the two stock
markets an unattractive option. This dramatically limits the equity funding options for commercial
companies, in particular for highly leveraged private ventures.
(d) Recent Problems and Current Issues. Major problems facing the financial sector relate to the web
of financial misallocation that has weakened the banks, the government, and the enterprises. Loans
5   Source: NBR Monetary Survey, based on unaudited figures submitted monthly by the banks to the NBR
Monetary Policy Department. The figures for customer loans are shown before deducting specific loan loss
provisions, so that the percentage shares in loans to non-government large state banks with severely impaired
portfolios are significantly overstated.
6   The percentage shares of private banks owned by Romanian capital in deposits, loans, and total assets is
overstated by the inclusion of Dacia Felix, Credit Bank, and Coluinna Bank in the NBR statistics.



18
extended to loss-making enterprises have undermined the financial condition of major state-owned banks,
which has required liquidity infusions from the government while the fiscal deficit remains high.
Meanwhile, the high fiscal deficit adds to the general weakness of the economy, and contributes to high
interest rates and the crowding out of private investment. Moreover, because of the problems banks have in
collecting bad loans from loss-making SOEs, banks have invested in government securities. Thus, rather
than financing loss-making enterprises, banks are financing the government deficit, which is in deficit
largely because loss-making enterprises have been kept afloat. In either scenario, well managed enterprises
with good prospects for commercial viability find it difficult or overly costly to borrow, constraining their
growth or their ability to function in the market. Generally, the banks suffer from the poor quality of their
loan portfolios, an inadequate and volatile capital base, a narrow funding base, a growing foreign currency
mismatch between deposits and reserves, over-dependence on NBR refinancing or inter-bank credit,
continuing dominance by the state banks, a high degree of segmentation, and a lack of corporate
governance.
62.    The financial sector has been hampered by a volatile macroeconomic environment. Since 1997, the
macroeconomic picture has deteriorated. Increased needs for domestic borrowing on the part of the
government and the large liquidity infusions to support ailing banks (troubled by exposure to loss-making
SOEs) have contributed to persistent high real interest rates. Shifts between liquidity infusions to finance
bonds in support of the fiscal deficit and to keep ailing banks afloat, and credit restrictions aimed at
supporting the exchange rate, have caused inter-bank rates to fluctuate widely, which in turn increased
expectations of depreciation.
63.    The financial sector has also been adversely affected by enterprise financing weaknesses (e.g.,
weak cash flow, shortage of working capital, excess debt, insufficient equity, run-up of arrears, lack of
creditworthiness) for years. In response to worsening enterprise performance, banks have cut the supply of
credit to the real sector. The ability of the banking sector to absorb losses from exposure to loss-making
SOEs largely depends on the sufficiency of their earnings to create adequate loan loss provisions and still
preserve a strong capital base. Under these circumstances, the shift by most banks away from customer
lending towards investment in government securities and NBR deposits, and the development of fee-based
services, is clearly a prudent and logical protective response. Such behavior in other nearby countries (e.g.,
Poland) has permitted banks to recapitalize while sending a signal to enterprises that they need to meet
stringent requirements to access scarce credit. Over time, if Romania is able to stabilize its macroeconomic
environment and if banks have recourse through judicial and extra-judicial means to recover loans, it is
likely that the banks will return to more risk-taking financing. However, until net spreads narrow and the
institutional environment is more conducive to risk-taking, banks will be wise to strengthen their financial
condition and reduce the risk of their overall exposure.
64.      Banks are no longer willing to renew overdue loans, a practice that previously concealed the true
situation. Consequently, the need for increased provisions has become manifest. However, despite
increasing recognition by banks that rollovers cannot be sustained in light of the more stringent reserve and
prudential requirements of NBR (and the general deterioration in portfolio quality banks have carried), the
share of nonperforming loans rose in 1998. Large credit expansion by the government, which suggests a
lack of hard budget constraints in the economy and the fact that most of the new loans have been used to
roll over old credits that otherwise would have been classified as non-perforning, was characteristic of the
GOR approach through early to mid-1998, even though banks themselves have generally curtailed such
behavior. GOR has finally come to realize the pitfalls of such an approach. However, notwithstanding
more recent trends of late, the banks still have significant weaknesses that have been carried over from
1998 and earlier.
65.    Current NBR regulations on portfolio classification and loan loss provisioning are comprehensive,
but still need some improvement. First of all, less emphasis should be placed on the value of collateral.



19
Second, banks should be required to make provisions immediately, rather than deferring provisions by four
to six months from the date to which they refer. Even more detrimental to the health of the banking sector
is that while banks are allowed to provide for unpaid inter-bank loans and off-balance sheet exposures, in
practice they do not because such provisions are not tax-deductible.
66.   A number of the recently established private Romanian banks appear to be expanding more rapidly
than their capital and management resources can sustain. Several of these new banks, seduced by the
appeal of "universal banking," are seeking to diversify into non-banking financial products (the risks of
which they may not fully understand) before they have mastered the basic skills of commercial banking.
This reflects the need for prudential regulations that are consistent with practices emerging from the Basle
Committee, IOSCO, and IAIS, as well as with EU Directives concerning banking and other financial
activities that fall under the rubric of "universal" banking.
67.   In the category of smaller, privately capitalized banks, those institutions with foreign ownership
that have professional and experienced management appear to be operating under clear and relatively
conservative policy nonns. As of 09/30/98, these banks constituted 39.9% of total private banking assets,
and 11.5% of total banking assets. However, most of the private banks owned entirely by Romanian
capital (accounting for 17.3% of total banking assets as of 09/30/98) suffer from seriously impaired loan
portfolios (between 40% and 80% of loan portfolios classified in the "doubtful" and "loss categories") and
relatively poor management. To date, two private banks have failed (Dacia, Felix and Credit Bank)
although their owners have been able to stop the NBR from removing their licenses and putting them into
liquidation through the court system. A third (Columna Bank) has stopped normal operations, following
legal action by its largest creditor (the State Ownership Fund). These weaknesses point to the need for a
legal/judicial base and NBR supervisory mandate to revoke licenses, suspend operations, and liquidate
troubled banks such as these.
68.   The experience of failing and failed banks to date has highlighted the inability of the NBR to take
tough and effective action to deal with troubled banks. This is partially attributable to defects in the 1991
Banking Law (as noted above, a new banking law was passed in February 1998). However, another reason
is that the NBR Banking Supervision Department continues to suffer from under-staffing, high turnover,
and insufficient training. These problems are compounded by the fragmentation of the banking supervision
function between various departments of the NBR, and the apparent reluctance of the NBR's top
management to take a firm political stance in dealing with problem banks. Political interference is an
additional problem-as noted above, the courts overruled the NBR's decision to revoke the licenses of two
private banks.
69.   The NBR Supervision Department has submitted to the World Bank periodic reports on its
activities every six months for the past several years as agreed upon under the FESAL program. While on-
site inspection is gradually improving, the Supervision Department has failed in the past to react effectively
and in a timely fashion to several troubled banks. The pending reorganization of the NBR on a regional
basis should afford opportunities to strengthen banking supervision by mobilizing staff outside Bucharest
presently employed by the Control Department; this staff presently performs duties commonly associated
with bank supervision in market economies. Nonetheless, the ability of the NBR's banking supervision
staff to perform the most basic risk-based supervision, and to obtain an accurate picture of the financial
condition of banks is questionable. In particular, the Supervision Department needs to become much more
effective in dealing with distressed banks that require fundamental restructuring.



20
B. Government Program for Financial Sector Reform
70.   The GOR program for financial sector reform consists of five key components: (i) privatizing
state-owned banks; (ii) restructuring Bank Agricola, and downsizing/liquidation of Bancorex; (iii)
strengthening prudential regulations, banking supervision, and accounting/audit standards; (iv) developing
a legal framework for bank resolution; and (v) developing a Government securities market. Banking sector
reforms are critical to the health of the financial sector. Bank privatization is expected to have a positive
impact on the macro-economic stabilization program and the reform of the Romanian economy as a whole,
since it will reinforce free-market incentives in the banking industry. The restructuring of Bank Agricola
and the downsizing of Bancorex will lead to a better allocation of resources based on commercial
principles. An improved prudential regulatory framework and accounting/audit standards will lead to better
governance and an improved financial position for the banks, and by extension, should strengthen financial
discipline in the real sector. The development of a legal framework for bank resolution is expected to
provide a more orderly method of bank restructuring in the future as market conditions evolve.
Development of a Government securities market is expected to assist with broader capital markets
development.
(i) Privatization of State-owned banks
71.   In 1998, the Government embarked on privatizing two state-owned banks: (i) the Romanian
Development Bank (RDB), which accounts for about 7.5% of banking sector assets; and (ii) Banc Post
(BP), a smaller bank accounting for 2.4% of total assets of the banking sector. In December 1998, the
RBD was successfully privatized by selling 51% of its shares to Societe Generale of France. The Banc
Post privatization has been completed, with GE Capital and Banco Portugese de Investimento (BPI)
purchasing a major share of the bank. These privatizations demonstrate the GOR decision to move ahead
with banking sector privatization, and their recognition of the need for strategic investors. The large
presence of prime-rated banks in Romania-notwithstanding their relative lack of risk-taking to date, as
measured by balance sheet exposures-reflects the interest on the part of major global financial institutions
in the Romanian market.
72.   Of the remaining three large state-owned banks, the Romanian Commercial Bank (RCB) has
impaired but adequately provisioned loan portfolios, satisfactory risk-based capital adequacy after
provisioning, and management with a clear perception of their respective bank's policy direction. This
bank is under-loaned (customer lending represents only 40% of total assets), and the present perverse
structure of interest rates enables it to earn handsome returns on low-risk investments in Treasury bills and
deposits with the NBR, at rates far above those on customer loans. Short-termn measures of the GOR plan
also call for (i) an amended Law on Bank Privatization, and (ii) development of terms of reference for the
appointment of an auditor to conduct a due diligence of RCB's loan portfolio (to be followed by measures
to prepare RCB for privatization).
(ii) Restructure and downsize/liquidate major loss-making State-owned banks
73.   The other two large state banks7 (accounting for 41.3% of state-owned banking assets and 29.5%
of total banking assets) have suffered from undue political interference, misguided senior management
policies, and serious credit losses during recent years. Both banks have significantly impaired capital (even
after the government's very large recapitalizations in the second half of 1997) and need to define their new
policy direction. However, it is noteworthy that during 1998, following a change in top management and
7   Banca Agricola (BA) and Bancorex (BX).



21
the creation of a broadly based Restructuring Committee8 to oversee the rehabilitation process, Banca
Agricola is striving to improve its financial situation. The bank has reduced staff numbers by around 20%,
closed over 60 outlets, and commenced a vigorous debt recovery. The bank was fortuitously assisted
during the second half of 1997 by the high interest rates prevailing on its holdings of Government
securities. Nevertheless, of greater long-term importance are the bold measures taken to date to restructure
Bank Agricola prior to its privatization. The agreement between GOR and the World Bank on the fate of
COMTIM (see para. 29) also shows recognition by GOR of the need to restructure companies responsible
for the poor performance of banks' portfolios, Bank Agricola being a prime example. The GOR plan also
calls for a least-cost plan for restructuring/privatization of Bank Agricola, and the termination of asset
transfers to the Danube Restructuring Fund.
74.   In the case of Bancorex, although the balance sheet has been partially repaired, fundamental
problems to be resolved. A new management team was appointed in April 1998 to tum the bank around.
A foreign investment bank was also appointed to advise senior management. Although some steps were
taken, a comprehensive restructuring plan was never implemented and the bank has deteriorated further. In
February 1999, a Special Administrator replaced the management team with a time line for the
restructuring of the bank. The GOR plan calls for a detailed liquidation plan to wind down the operations
of the bank, and the appointment of a liquidation expert to implement the plan.
(iii) Strengthen prudential regulations, banking supervision, and accounting standards
75.   During the last eight years, the banking sector and the accompanying regulatory and supervisory
framework have developed rapidly. Following the conversion of the NBR into a central bank, a
comprehensive set of prudential regulations and a bank supervisory function were put in place. Banking
laws approved in 1991 were replaced with much improved laws (drafted with IMF assistance) in early
1998. A new Banking Law was passed by Parliament in February 1998, and a new NBR Statute and a
Bank Insolvency Law were passed in March 1998. A new chart of accounts for commercial banks based
on IAS was introduced on January 1, 1998, and an IAS accounting plan for the NBR was introduced on
March 1, 1998. An efficient paper-based Interbank Payments System (IPS), which will be managed by the
NBR, has been introduced and will be automated in due course. Recent reforns represent recognition on
the part of GOR regarding the need for an enabling environment for meaningful levels of financial
intermediation. These reforms have proceeded more rapidly than in the enterprise sector, reflecting some of
the progress made in the financial sector under the FESAL.
76.   However, the Supervision Department of the NBR has failed in the past to react effectively and in
a timely fashion to several troubled banks. Part of the problem is due to the previous Banking Law, dated
1991, which did not give sufficient power to the NBR. The implementation of the new 1998 Banking Law
and its attendant regulations will strengthen the enforcement powers of the NBR's Supervision Department,
enabling NBR to react more effectively and immediately to troubled banks. However, this will also depend
on GOR sustaining the political will to truly address and remedy the problem. The GOR plan calls for a
further tightening of liquidity and solvency requirements based on IAS and Basle Committee
recommendations, strengthened supervisory capacity and legally mandated enforcement powers of NBR,
the application of sanctions on banks that are not in compliance with capital adequacy and other
requirements, the introduction of more timely and matched (e.g., currency) provisioning practices and tax
deductibility for banks, and detailed instructions on the preparation of bank annual reports and financial
statements.
Chaired by a Secretary of State from the MOF and comprising participants from the MOF, NBR and the State
Ownership Fund (SOF).



22
(iv) Create a legal framework for bank resolution
77.   The GOR plan calls for the establishment of an Asset Resolution Agency to assist with bank
resolution in an orderly manner with a sound board and management, and detailed budget and operating
procedures.
(v) Develop a Government securities market
78.   The GOR plan calls for development of primary and secondary government securities markets that
offer at least four different maturities, and have computerized clearing and settlement systems.
C. The PSAL and Financial Sector Reform
79.      The proposed PSAL aims to stimulate reforms in the financial sector. This operation would
build on and complement the reforms already undertaken by the Government and concentrate on selected
high-priority areas. (Issues not covered by this program will be considered under follow-up operations.) In
the financial sector, this operation will concentrate on three areas: (i) restructuring and privatizing state-
owned banks; (ii) strengthening of prudential regulations and the supervision capacity of the NBR to
improve the overall soundness of the banking system; and (iii) furthering the development of the
government securities market. Details of the banking sector are given in Annex I and summarized below.
80.      Restructuring, with the ultimate objective of privatizing poorly performing state-owned banks,
has been initiated. The current attempts at downsizing Bancorex and restructuring and privatizing Banca
Agricola are crucial not only to create a functioning commercial banking system, but also to remove the
large distortions currently characterizing the money market.
81.    The GOR will modify the norms of the Law on Bank Privatization to make the privatization
process quicker and more transparent.  This will be done by (i) replacing the current two-stage
privatization procedure with a one-stage procedure. In the new procedure, the appointed privatization
advisor will prepare, under the supervision of the Privatization Com Bank, the feasibility study, the bank
evaluation report, and the sale memorandum, and he/she will complete the privatization; and (ii) removing
the SOF's current option of retaining either a Golden Share or an equity position after privatization. Any
shares that may temporarily remain in the SOF portfolio will be due to a lack of market demand for those
shares.
82.      The creation of an Asset Resolution Agency (ARA) will support bank restructuring by
providing an outlet to dispose of non-viable assets. This will be one of the preconditions to avoid bank
liquidation, and to prepare state banks for privatization, albeit at a potentially high cost to the Romanian
taxpayer. However, without an intensified approach to bank supervision and improvements in the legal
procedures for loan work-outs and enterprise bankruptcy procedures, most of the efforts directed at
recovering bad loans will remain unsuccessful.
83.      To facilitate quick and smooth bank restructuring, the NBR will need to tighten and simplify
loan classification requirements, mandate realistic valuations of collateral, and increase the provisioning of
bad loans. Liquidity and solvency requirements will have to be tightened by increasing risk-adjusted
capital adequacy requirements to strengthen the NBR's capacity to identify problem banks, to provide the
banks themselves with a cushion against unforeseen losses, and to prevent depositor losses. In addition, the
supervisory capacity of the NBR needs to be strengthened. The powers of the NBR to withdraw licenses of
insolvent banks without court approval will be increased under proposed new legislation. Currently, the



23
US Treasury is providing technical assistance to the NBR. Additionally, the IMF will provide technical
assistance .
84.   While the PSAL will not directly focus on small private banks, the PSAL will support prudential
regulations that are consistent with practices emerging from the Basle Committee, IOSCO, and IAIS, as
well as with EU Directives concerning banking and other financial activities that fall under the rubric of
universal banking.
85.   Measures adopted and enforced under the PSAL will provide the legal/judicial basis and the NBR
supervisory mandate to revoke licenses, suspend operations, and liquidate troubled banks such as these.
PSAL-supported initiatives are expected to preclude this option in the future. The PSAL is expected to
provide support in the form of technical assistance that will strengthen GOR's capacity to successfully
implement the PSAL. As with legal reform, the inability to enforce undermines the effectiveness of the
reform.  Strengthened enforcement powers and enhanced risk management in NBR's Supervision
Department will provide GOR with tools that were lacking or not as widely available under the FESAL.
This will complement other reforms tied to bank resolution (see paras. 71, 72).
86.      While the banking sector remains the largest (albeit troubled) focus of financial intermediation
in Romania, it is the intent of the PSAL and GOR to also develop more fully the secondary markets in
government securities. Along with accelerated privatization in the enterprise sector and among the
remaining state-owned banks, the PSAL is expected to provide a significant push towards capital market
growth and development. The absence of an operational secondary market for government paper is the
most glaring hole in the non-banking, market-based part of the financial sector. The need to develop this
market is obvious, in particular to improve the conduct of monetary policy by facilitating efficient open
market operations (which currently are carried out mostly by competing for deposits) and to establish a
market-determined term structure of interest rates on government paper. Currently, erratic lending in the
inter-bank market drives interest rates. A functioning secondary market for government securities would
thus provide a reliable source for market-priced domestic financing to the Government of Romania, and in
the process, allow the NBR to monitor effectively the structure and evolution of interest rates, and the
financial market response to economic policy.
87.    These actions are ultimately expected to strengthen the intermediation capacity, enlarge market
opportunities, and tenhance the product array and management capacity of domestic banks being
restructured and privatized. This is particularly crucial as banks begin to enter into "non-bank" activities
under a more "universal" banking-type market, and as the capital markets develop in the coming years
(with the support of PSAL financing). Such objectives are intended to build on progress made in the
financial sector under the FESAL by consolidating gains made in the areas of legal reform and tightened
prudential regulations. Moreover, the PSAL urges the GOR to take bold moves in the direction of broader
judicial capacity and NBR supervisory capacity for enforcement of legal and regulatory requirements, and
to transform the banking sector definitively to one that is commercial in orientation and market-based in
incentives.



24
V. MITIGATING THE SOCIAL COSTS OF ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
88.    Both the enterprise and banking restructuring will result in the substantial lay-off of workers,
estimated at some 200,000 over the lifetime of the reforms. It is imperative that both the immediate welfare
losses of these workers as a result of redundancy, and their long-term employment prospects are addressed
adequately.
89.    A variety of current ordinances specify the severance pay entitlements to various categories of
workers. Some are more generous than others (e.g. transport and especially the mining sector), reflecting
the greater economic leverage that workers in some sectors enjoy. However, such generosity is misplaced
and unaffordable at a time of fiscal stringency. Moreover, the actual severance payments made are based
upon averages within the industrial branch rather than the specific worker's earnings. This has both
distortionary redistributive effects - with lower-paid workers receiving relatively higher severance pay
(frequently higher than their previous earnings), and also a ratcheting effect on the actual costs, as it is
usually the lower paid workers that are laid off in larger numbers. In a large number of cases, as workers
receive both unemployment pay (over a period of up to 18 months) and severance pay (over a period from
1 to 9 months) simultaneously, their total income exceeds their prior work income (at least for the duration
of the severance pay period) which acts as a major disincentive to job search. Under the PSAL, the
Government will make severance consistent across all branches of industry. GOR will cancel special
privileges or at least allow them to lapse by the end of 1999, and will make severance payments to
individual workers based on the worker's prior earnings, rather than industry averages. These changes
introduced under the PSAL will therefore reduce inter-sectoral inequity, treat workers equitably based upon
their earnings profile, and increase the affordability of severance payments.
90.    Furthermore, workers who are unemployed for more than an 18-month period (i.e., 9 months with
an Unemployment Benefit (UB) of 60% of prior earnings followed by an additional 9 months with an UB
40% of prior earnings) are thereafter eligible for the means-tested social assistance program, the Minimum
Income Guarantee Scheme (MIGS). This income support trajectory has a number of adverse effects: (i) it
discourages job search; (ii) it erodes workers' future employability as they remain outside the labor market;
and (iii) it encourages unemployed workers to become locked in a welfare dependency, with a very low and
uncertain income through the MIGS. Moreover, severance pay is frequently paid as a lump-sum of up to
6, 9, or even 18 months of salary based upon the specific severance ordinances and length of service. Field
investigations by the Bank and MOLSP demonstrate that many workers behave myopically, spending the
money rapidly (clearing past debts, buying furniture, real estate, or expensive goods), rather than using the
money more prudently. Under the PSAL, the Government will ensure that severance payments be made
monthly over a period of 6 months unless the worker proposes a sound business plan, in which case the
severance can be paid as a lump-sum. Not only will this reduce the costs of income support, it will provide
an added incentive for workers to seek alternative employment.
91.    Workers have come to view UB as a program to be exploited to the maximum rather than as a
form of temporary income support while the unemployed seek alternative employment. Under the PSAL,
UB will be renamed Labor Market Reinsertion Allowance (LMRA) as part of the campaign to re-educate
and reorient workers to more actively seek alternative employment (discussed further in para. 84).
92.   In addition to these measures to rationalize the social protection system, the Government will
initiate three itnportant parallel actions to provide support to those laid-off workers.
* First, despite the tight fiscal situation, the Govenmment will guarantee through adequate budgetary
provision (monitored as a condition of second tranche release) that there are sufficient funds available



25
in the Unemployment Fund (under the MOLSP) for the payment of both severance pay and LMRA for
all eligible workers. The additional costs to the Unemployment Fund on an annual basis of this
restructuring are estimated at about 0.2% of GDP (as a result of reduced revenues to the UF, and the
direct pay-outs for severance pay and LMRA). It is essential that the LMRA and severance payments
are actually made to eligible workers, otherwise such workers would face severe hardship and social
unrest could ensue, which would undermine the PSAL and other economic reforms. To establish the
long-term fiscal viability of the UF, the Government will also evaluate the progress of unemployment
benefit recipients over the last three years (1997-1999), the nominal and real benefit levels, cash-flow
analysis of the UF for 1999, financial forecasts for 2000-2001, and discuss the implications of this
evaluation with the World Bank, as a condition of second tranche release.
Second, services to help workers find alternative employment will be strengthened and expanded to
cover the additional 200,000 lay-offs expected (about 2% of the current labor force). The Government
established the Labor Redeployment Program (LRP) in 1997 with financial support from the World
Bank through the Employment & Social Protection Loan (ESPP). The LRP is targeted specifically to
workers made redundant through the mass lay-offs of enterprises undergoing restructuring. A wide
variety of pre- and post-lay-off services have been provided to over 30,000 workers thus far. However,
analysis of the results to date demonstrates two sets of problems. Many workers do not benefit from:
(i) pre-lay-off services, and therefore do not receive counseling on alternative employment
opportunities, or orientation on personal financial planning and the use of severance pay; and as a
result lack information on (ii) post-lay-off services that are being made available. The lack of
participation by workers is caused by a variety of factors such as inadequate warning of the lay-off,
lack of interest or encouragement to participate in such services, or in many cases, lack of availability
due to a shortage of service providers. The result is a lower than anticipated utilization of post-lay-off
services, and short-term excessive consumption based on lump-sum severance pay receipts, with
consequent rapid immiserization thereafter. To address this issue, the Government will make it
mandatory that all laid-off workers participate in pre-lay-off counseling during the 30-day notice period
as a prerequisite for redundancy and the receipt of severance pay. To expand the provision of such
services, the local labor offices will be authorized to contract suitably qualified private sector service
providers. The importance of such services will be explained through public information campaigns.
* Third, micro-credit provision for sound business proposals from laid-off workers has been absent from
the menu of services provided under the LRP, due to a lack of accredited intermediation agencies, and
laws that require cash or near-cash collateral of 150% or more of the loan amount. The Government
will establish the legal framework for credit agencies, other than banks, to administer funds for micro-
credit and reduce substantially the requisite collateral required from small borrowers such as laid-off
workers. Both the EU and USAID have financing available for micro-credit if such obstacles can be
removed.
93.    Beyond these labor market measures, the Government is aware of the need to strengthen the social
safety-net for those who fail to find employment after the severance payment and LMRA have expired.
The main element of this system, the means-tested MIGS, has been beset by many problems. Administered
by local governments with highly divergent procedures, mechanisms, targets, and benefit levels, the number
of recipients has fallen sharply in the last three years from about 425,000 to 200,000 households at a time
when poverty has been rising. Analysis of the weaknesses in this system is being studied through a contract
funded under the ESPP. This analysis, together with an action plan to address any problems encountered in
the MIGS will be discussed and agreed upon with the World Bank as a condition of the second tranche
release. Further support to the strengthening of the MIGS will be provided through the proposed Social
Sector Development Loan (FY01).



26
94.   It is crucial that there be a well-designed and implemented public information campaign to present
the rationale for the reforms, and to explain the supportive actions of the Government to care for its citizens
during the costly and difficult reform. This is important for all of the reforms embodied in the PSAL,
including those mitigating the social costs of enterprise and bank restructuring. The Government has
already developed a sound program, satisfactory to the World Bank, for this campaign, and will
demonstrate adequate implementation thereof as a condition of second tranche release.



27
VI. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
95.    Since the onset of transition, hesitant and inadequate structural reforms have resulted in a
disappointing macroeconomic performance. After the initial decline in output (averaging more
than 9% annually, 1990 through 1992), growth has been slow to return. Monetary stabilization
has been less successful than in other transition economies, and the balance-of-payments situation
continued to deteriorate rapidly (see Table 1).
Table 1: Main Macroeconomic Indicators
1992   1993   1994    1995    1996    1997        1998
Real GDP growth, percent    -8.8    1.5    3.9      6.9      3.9    -6.6    -7.3
Unemployment (eop)           7.4    9.5   10.9      8.9      6.3     8.8    10.5
LeiperUS$(eop)             433   1141   1774    2558    3750    7985    10951
Real effective rate (90=100)       79.2   86       85.7    76.8    91.7   118.4
Bank lending rate           43.60  86.41  61.81   47.50   53.60    55.60    58.90
Bank deposit rate           32.90  42.47  49.49   32.40   38.90    34.10   42.30
Average lend money mkt rate                                51.7   102.4   159.0
Revenues                    37.4   33.9   32.1    31.9    30.1    30.7    32
Expenditures                42      34.2   33.9    34.5    34.1    34.3    35
Consolidated balance        -4.6   -0.3   -1.8    -2.6    -4        -3.6    -3
Primary balance                    +0.6   -0.5    -1.2    -2.2    -0.5    +1.9
FD/M2                       17.9   29.0  221.4    22.6    23.4    28.4    32.6
M2/GDP                      28.9    9.1   21.5    25.4    28.9    24.9    27.3
Basemoneygrowth                    114.6  151.2    44.6    67.9    34.4    82.8
M2 growth (eop)             80.2  140.9  138.1    71.6    66.0   104.8    48.9
Domestic credit growth (non -  38.6  156.3   93.5    73.3    63.3    33.8    64.6
gov't)
CPI Inflation, eop         199.2  295.5   61.7    27.8    56.9   151.6    40.6
CPI inflation, av          199.9  227.3  139       35.3    44.6   146.7    59.1
Current Account GDP         -8      -4.5   -1.4    -5      -7.4    -6.2       -7.9
Gross reserves in months of  1.6    2       3.8     2        2.4     4.4      2.7
imports
of which NBR                0.2    0.1    1.1      0.4     0.6      2.5      1.6
Net external debt GDP        6.6    6.1   18.5    18.6    23.5    26.5    23
96.    Measures  of institutional reform   and  economic  transformation  have  also  been
discouraging. The private sector share of GDP hovers at just over 50%, compared to more than
70% estimated for other Central and Eastern European economies. Enterprise losses continue,
with utilities, banks, and the budget acting as the economy's "shock absorbers". Privatization lags



28
behind other transition economies, with the State Ownership Fund (SOF) maintaining a majority
of the book value of enterprises allocated to it. Banks' balance sheets and bad-loan portfolios
continue to deteriorate, as financial discipline remains as elusive for them as for enterprises in the
"real economy". By any standard, legal and institutional reform and the capacity to implement
and enforce existing regulation, are weak.
97.   Lack of economic growth has driven an already poor population deeper into poverty.
Recorded unemployment has reached 12%, and more than one third of the population live below
the official poverty line.
A. Fiscal Policy
98.   Enterprise losses translate into budgetary pressures either directly (e.g., if they represent
direct subsidies or unpaid taxes and arrears to the budget), or indirectly (e.g., if they manifest
themselves as non-performing loans in the banking system or as contingent liabilities of public
enterprises), and eventually call for budgetary support. In the Romanian budget, both effects are
visible.
99.   Table 2 shows the general government balance, with revenues and expenditures expressed
in percent of GDP for the period 1995 through 1998, and with staff estimates for 1999. It shows a
significant drop in tax revenues - from 33.5% of GDP in 1992 to 30.9% in 1998, with total
expenditures diminishing as well, if at a slightly higher pace. The rapid accumulation of public
debt to finance the deficit through the observed period resulted in increased expenditures for
interest payments on that debt. Such payments increased from 0.2% of GDP in 1992 to 5.4% of
GDP in 1998, creating a primary surplus for the first time; payments are projected at nearly 6% of
GDP in 1999. Domestic borrowing and high interest rates increasingly burden Romania's fiscal
position.
100.  Of all the items in table 1, expenditures on subsidies show the most marked change,
dropping from 13% of GDP in 1992 to 1.7% in 1998. However, this positive tendency does not
register in the overall deficit. Without privatization proceeds, the overall deficit in 1998 stays at
4.6% of GDP, the same level as in 1992. One reason is that expenditures for transfer payments
increased from 9.4% of GDP in 1992 to 13.1% in 1998. More importantly, however, is that fact
that, while budgetary subsidies to state-owned enterprises were indeed cut substantially,
"unexpected" costs to the budget caused by emergency operations to refinance state-owned banks
increased substantially. The 1997 bail-out of Bancorex and Banca Agricola alone, for example,
cost 1 billion USD. Traditionally, non-tradable (low interest, long maturity) bonds issued by the
Ministry of Finance were issued to substitute for NBR's role as the lender of last resort in these
operations.
101.  The only way thus far to increase government revenues sufficiently to lower the overall
deficit (to 3.6 and 3.3% of GDP in 1997 and 1998, respectively) has been the collection of
privatization revenues. Accelerated privatization in 1999 is expected to bring the deficit down to
2.5% of GDP. It is important to keep in mind, however, that the sale of government assets as a
one-time operation is no solution to finance budget deficits and should be treated as a financing
item below the line rather than a part of budgetary revenues. To restore fiscal sustainability in the



29
long run therefore would require a comprehensive reform of revenue and expenditure habits as
well as improved tax collection.
102.  On the other hand, it needs to be recognized that Romania has come a long way from the
time (prior to 1997), when a large share of the public sector deficit was taken over by the NBR,
usually in the form of subsidized credits to state-owned banks, which in turn used these funds to
subsidize public sector enterprises. The size of these quasi-fiscal deficits is estimated to have been
at least as large as the general government deficit.9
Table 2 Consolidated Budget Deficit
1992      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999
37.4      32.1     30.1      30.7      35       38.3
TOTAL BUDGET REVENUE
Tax revenue                        33.5      28.8       27      26.8     30.9      35.3
Privatization proceeds                                             1      2.3        1.1
42.0      34.7     34.1      34.3     38.3        41
TOTAL BUDGET
EXPENDITURES
Subsidies and Transfers            22.4      14.9     14.8      14.2       16        17
Subsidies                          13.0       4.1      4.4       2.5      1.7       2.0
Interest expenditures               0.2       1.4      1.7       3.4      5.4        6.6
Overall Balance                    -4.6      -2.6       -4      -3.6     -3.3      -2.5
Overall balance net of             -4.6      -2.6       -4      -4.6     -5.7      -3.6
privatization proceeds
.FINANCING
Domestic                                      1.9      3.4      -0.3        3       -0.3
Extenal                                       0.8      0.9         3      0.5         2
Additional privatization proceeds                                                   0.4
Discrepancy                                  -0.1     -0.3       0.9     -0.2         0
MEMO
Primary Balance*                             -1.2     -2.3      -0.2      2.0        3.9
Source: Ministry of Finance and IMF staff estimates
B. Monetary Policy
103.  Traditionally, monetary policy in Romania was geared toward supporting specific sectors
of the economy through directed credits and quasi-fiscal subsidies. This not only gave rise to
inflationary pressures but, prior to 1997, has often prevented the visibility of financial weakness
on the enterprise level as it prevented these losses from showing up in the accounts of comnmercial
banks. The 1997 Standby was the first serious attempt at monetary stabilization. The monetary
9   IMF staff has estimated the total public sector deficit (including the quasi-fiscal expenditures of the NBR) at
2.9 and 8.3% for 1995 and 1996, respectively.



30
base was. kept under control during the first half of the year, despite the liberalization of a range of
still administered prices and of the exchange rate which took place at the same time.
104.  During the second half of the year, however, firmer monetary policies combined with the
unabated accumulation of losses by state-owned enterprises led to a visible deterioration of the
accounts of the (largely state-owned) commercial banks. The translation of continued losses in the
enterprise sector into the balance sheets of the banking sector already under conditions of merely
"normal" monetary policy put pressure on the NBR to monetize at least part of these losses. In
1998, this resulted in a marked expansion (in real terms) of credit to the enterprise sector. These
developments illustrate just how difficult it will be to maintain restrictive monetary policies
without overburdening the system. Judging from experience, there seems to be little chance for
success if this policy is not supported by deep structural reforms; reforms of enterprises as well as
of the commercial banks. The ability of the NBR to keep monetary policy under control thus
depends to a considerable extent on the ability of the government to enforce hard budget
constraints on the system as a whole.
105.  Another important element of monetary policy has been implicit exchange rate targeting.
A controlled depreciation was typical for the period of transition since 1997. In order to contain
pressure during massive liquidity injections, the NBR was forced to use the only sterilization tool
available (given the lack of a secondary market for government securities), namely deposit
auctions, which led to massive swings in domestic interest rates. Bail-outs of ailing banks caused
additional distortions by pushing interest rates on the domestic money market still higher. In
particular, Bancorex was forced to borrow on a weekly basis from the inter-bank money market
(including the NBR) in order to finance itself, despite repeated government interventions to bail
the bank out. Exchange rate intervention plus this level of refinancing (up to 2 trillion Lei on a
weekly basis for this bank alone) explain the erratic movements of interest rates in Romania
throughout the transition.
Table 3. Selected Financial sector Indicators
Percent                  1992  1993  1994 1995 1996  1997  1998
Ratio of currency in circulation to GDP     6.8   5.2   4.4  5.2  4.9   3.7   3.4
Dollarization ratio (FD/M2)                  18    29    22   23   23    28    33
Ratio of M2 to GDP                           29    23    22   25   28    24    27
Nominal growth of credit to non-government   39   156    94   73   63    34    65
M2 growth rate                               80   141   138   72   66   105    49
MO growth rate                            na      115   151   45   68    34    83
CPI inflation, eop                          199   296    62   28   57   152    41
C. Balance of Payments and External Debt
106.  Romania's macroeconomic position is the consequence of a lack of financial discipline in
the economy, and this extends to its external sector as well. The rapid accumulation of foreign
debt and the subsequent difficulties in debt refinancing became an important source of potential
vulnerability for Romania. This situation occured despite positive initial conditions, as Romania
did not inherit any foreign debt from the past regime. It has, however, been running large trade



31
deficits that were partially financed by borrowing abroad; in addition, access to long-term IFI
finance was abandoned in favor of bond financing on the private capital market in 1996 to escape
the checks and balances associated with concluding agreements with the bank and the IMF. From
almost 0% indebtedness in 1990, external debt is now projected to arrive at more than 30% of
GDP in 1999. While still low by international standards, external debt has risen more than three-
fold during the period 1992-1998. The debt-to-exports ratio has increased to more than 100%.
Given the present turbulence in international financial markets and the dubious repayment
prospects for Romania in 1999, the roll-over risk has increased substantially.
107.  Table 4 shows the composition of total debt and ratios relative to GDP, exports, and
reserves. The deterioration of Romania's external position is most obvious in the ratio of debt
service to exports (which increased ten-fold during the period 1992 -1998). In 1998, total debt
service already accounted for almost one quarter of total external debt. Amortization increased
from 9.6% of total debt in 1997 to 16.2% in 1998. Short-term debt as a percentage of GDP is still
above that of many Latin American countries.
Table 4. External debt and Liquidity Indicators
External Sector Indicators                  1992   1995    1996   1997    1998
Real Exchange Rate Index (90=100)                   85.7    76.8   91.7   118.4
CA Balance (% of GDP)                         -8     -5    -7.4   -6.2    -7.9
Gross External Debt/GDP                     16.6   18.7    25.9   27.5    25.1
Gross Extemal Debt /Exports                         73.2    89.3   95.2   100.7
75.6
Exports/GDP                                 21.9   22.1    22.7   24.2    21.8
Debt Service/Exports                         2.8   12.3    15.3   15.9    21.7
Amortization/Exports                                 7.5      9.7   14.2    16.2
2.6
Intern. Reserves in months of imports        1.6      2      2.4    4.4       2.7
of which NBR                                 0.2    0.4       0.6    2.5      1.6
Short-term debt/Total debt                          19.5     8.9    9.1
23.5                             9.9
Private debt/Total debt                              6.2      4.0    7.0
6.9
Short-term Debt as a percent of intern.     92.1   94.4    70.8   32.6    25.1
Reserves
Spread of benchmark bonds, bp, eop            na      na     364    350    1300
Memo Items
Gross External Debt (in billions of USD)     3.2    6.7       9.2    9.5      9.6
GDP (in billions of USD)                    19.6   35.7    35.5   34.8    38.2
108.  Although Romania's financial situation is of their own making, the impact of the global
financial situation, the crisis in Russia, and more recently the war in Kosovo impairs its capacity to
defuse a precarious repayment situation. This problem is manifested in three ways. First, the
prospects for FDI, important for privatization revenues as well as for private sector growth, have
eroded along with the diminishing confidence in emerging markets. Second, the international



32
financial crisis has made foreign financing scarcer and more expensive, in particular for countries
with a rating record like Romania's. Thirdly, exercising options on bonds or calling loans becomes
an increasingly attractive proposition for international lenders to adjust their own portfolios if
sovereign risk deterioration in a wider set of countries requires such adjustments. This in turn
entails the danger of cross defaults. Which loans can be withdrawn under such an option,
however, will to a large measure depend on agreements negotiated before the worsening of
international financial conditions. It thus need not reflect the true risk distribution after the global
financial environment changes and may affect countries for reasons unrelated to country risk.
109.  Naturally, economies with insufficient international reserves or adverse current account
balances are more threatened by these effects than others. Romania's external position, however,
is mostly home-made. Three years after the previous government had used its newly gained access
to the international capital markets to replace IFI funding, Romania struggles to meet a bunched
repayment schedule. Lack of effective debt management, inadequate progress on structural
reforms, the speed with which the country went into external indebtedness, and the relatively
short maturities to which the first debt instruments were contracted have all contributed to the
present situation.
D. The need for structural reforms
110.  A system of production based on communist-era technology and organization can not
operate in an open economy without the support of subsidies. But subsidies introduce the wrong
incentives. They discourage reorganization and the advancement of productivity, especially if they
are available only to the worst performers. In addition, subsidies need to be financed and will
therefore drain resources from more productive segments of the economy, thus blocking private
sector development and FDI by increasing the explicit or implicit tax burden on those able to pay.
111.  Losses, which in a functioning market economy cause inefficient enterprises to disappear
and make room for new and fitter firms; are in a weak economy, transferred to these new and
fitter firms instead, where they might be absorbed and hidden for a while. Ultimately, however,
they will come to light if their root cause does not disappear and if the underlying mechanism of
redistribution is not changed. In the case of Romania, losses show up in three areas. The first is
the sovereign debt repayment schedule (already mentioned). The second is the domestic banking
system. The third is payment arrears that block the normal operation of the system.
112.  A series of indicators point to the fragility of the banking sector. The relative importance
of loans classified as Standard (35% in 1994, 11% in June 1998) and as Loss (11% in 1994 and
33% in June 1998) reversed itself within four years. The solvency ratio fell below 11% in June
1998. The capital adequacy ratio for the five largest banks (all state-owned until December 1998)
is steadily declining. It has fallen from an "uncomfortable" 10% to a scary 7% within two years.
Furthermore, aside irrespective of banks, which are notoriously in trouble (i.e., exclude Bancorex,
Banca Agricola, Credit Bank, Dacia Felix, and Columna Bank) the ratio of own funds to the sum
of domestic credit to non-government plus inter-bank loans to other commercial banks fell from
about .33 in 1997 to .26 at end 1998. In other words, losses accounting for 26% of credits to
non-government and other commercial banks would be enough to wipe out the entire commercial
banking system. Given the composition of banks' portfolios and the lack of factual provisioning
possible under Romanian accounting standards, such a scenario is less far fetched than one might
wish for. The dramatic currency mismatch in the commercial banking sector, where foreign



33
reserve deposits exceed foreign reserve reserves by a factor of more than 2.5 adds to the danger
of financial instability (see section II).
Indicators for the quality of loans in the banking system
Quality of Banks indicators         Dec-94    Dec-95     Dec-96    Dec-97       Jun-98
(W+S+D+L)/Total, net                64.3%      83.2%      88,9%      86.4%      89.1%
Act.risk/(W+S+D+L)                   2.2%       11.6%     10.6%      21.1%      27.8%
Req.risk/(S+D+L)                      7.9%      16.6%      17.7%     28.9%      34.7%
(W+S+D+L)/Own Capital               512.7%    560.1%     581.0%     506.7%     736.3%
(W+S+D+L)lTotal assets              29.6%      47.3%      43.2%      34.6%      41.0%
Own Capital/total assets             5.8%       8.5%       7.4%       6.8%       5.6%
(W+S+D+L)-act.risk prov.           5,905.37   13,572.02  21,260.85   27,307.66   33,458.19
Own Capital                        1,177.25    2,741.84    4,092.16   6,832.38    6,295.27
%                                   501.6%    495.0%     519.6%     399.7%     531.5%
Loan classification: W - Watch, S- substandard, D - doubtful, L - Loss (source: NBR)
113.  The latest available data indicate that payment arrears in the economy as a whole
amounted to 34% of GDP in 1997. More than one third are accumulated by private enterprises,
and approximately one third by firms with "mixed-ownership" (in Romania this is usually a
euphemism for private minority shareholders). This indicates that the private sector can no longer
insulate itself from the common practice: It is increasingly forced to adhere to the logic of soft
budget constraints.
114.  Not surprisingly, Romania's citizens pay the price. Unemployment has risen above 12%,
and more than 40% of the population lives below the poverty line. The continued lack of financial
discipline has not only discouraged the growth of a new private sector, has also jeopardized a
successful transition by diminishing the chances of restructuring existing industries. Depreciation
has rendered Romania's stock of productive capital more obsolete than it was at the beginning of
the transition. Romania's reputation in the international financial arena is low. The loss in human
capital incurred during a prolonged period of economic depression is incalculable. It is hard to see
how this process could be reversed without the support of multilateral lenders being prepared to
take the risk of following the government's quest for support.



34
VII. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
115.  The World Bank proposes to support this program with an adjustment loan of US$300 million.
This program is consistent with the CAS dated June 3, 1997 and its objectives of promoting structural
adjustment through privatization and financial sector reforms. The support is proposed to provide balance-
of-payments support to GOR as it undergoes needed yet costly restructuring of its enterprise and financial
sectors. In addition to broad macroeconomic actions, this loan would support reforms that will enhance
Romania's long-term prospects for economic growth and development; provide underlying support to
people displaced by the restructuring; and promote development of conditions that would accelerate
Romania's preparation for formal entry into the European Union and other organizations. The PSAL
would support nine broad areas of activity: (i) privatizing state-owned banks; (ii) restructuring several
poorly performing state-owned banks to prepare them for eventual privatization; (iii) strengthening bank
regulation and supervision; (iv) assisting in the development of government securities markets; (v)
privatizing and divesting the remaining large state-owned enterprises; (vi) privatizing and divesting the
remaining small and medium state-owned enterprises; (vii) improving the business environment; (viii)
reforming the utilities sector; and (ix) mitigating the social cost of enterprise restructuring.
B. World Bank Group and IMF Support
116.  The Government of Romania has reached broad agreement with the IMF on the main economic
objectives for 1999. These include reducing the current account deficit, reducing inflation, slowing the
decline in output in the long term, and addressing structural weakness in the enterprise and banking sectors.
In broad agreement with the IMF, the Government of Romania has agreed on the needed macroeconomic
policy measures to accomplish these goals. Key priorities are to: (i) reduce the general government deficit,
excluding privatization receipts, to 3.9% of GDP; (ii) place a strict ceiling on nominal wage bills in the
state sector (i.e., for general government, regies autonomes, national companies, and the 27 largest loss-
making commercial companies); (iii) continue the tight credit policy aimed at strengthening reserves and
containing the depreciation of the leu such that the inflation rate will target 35% per year; and (iv) reduce
the current asccount deficit to about 2 billion USD.
117.  The approved budget forecasts that the general government's wage bill will rise by 21 % in nominal
terms, implying a 12% decline in real terms. In addition, the nominal wage bills in 1999 in the regies
autonomies and national companies will be no higher than four times their level in the last quarter of 1998.
This implies a maximum increase of about 15% in nominal terms. Furthermore, an ordinance will be
issued regulating the wage bills of the 27 largest loss-making commercial enterprises. Finally, the SOF will
issue instructions to its representatives in the general assembly of shareholders of all commercial companies
in its portfolio to contain wage bills in line with the Budget Law. Under an IMF-supported program, wage
developments will be monitored through quarterly performance criteria in the form of ceilings on the
cumulative quarterly wage bills of the regies autonomes, national companies, and the loss-making
enterprises.
118.  Agreement was reached with the IMF on the following measures to reduce the fiscal deficit: (i) to
implement an increase in the petroleum excise of 50-60% immediately; (ii) to reduce budgeted expenditures
by 0.6% of GDP; and (iii) to adhere strictly to the nominal budgeted expenditure allocations in the face of
higher-than-initially-envisaged inflation.
119.  Preliminary understanding has also been reached on the 1999 monetary program, pending final
estimates on the size, and mode of financing of B3ancorex's liquidation. Monetary policy will be geared to
achieve a depreciation of the Lei in real terms. However, if there were pressure on foreign reserves, the



35
NBR would lower the rate of NDA growth below the program ceilings as needed. The inflation target has
been revised to take account of these objectives.
C. Board Presentation and Release of the Fir,. and Second Tranches
120.  The amount of the loan would be disbursed in two equal tranches: the first tranche would be
immediately available upon effectiveness, while the second tranche would become available when the Bank
is satisfied that the conditions for second tranche release have been fulfilled.
121. Board presentation/first tranche conditions include (refer to matrix):
Enterprise Sector
* enactment of new Privatization Law
* initiation of tenders for investment banks for four privatizations of large SOEs
* selection of 50 large SOEs from SOF portfolio for privatization in pools
* privatization in 1999 of at least 30 large SOEs and 250 SMEs, collectively representing at least 4% of
SOF portfolio equity
* privatization of at least 40 SOEs in which SOF holds residual shares
* identification of list of SOEs for liquidation, generating at least 15% of SOF losses
* hiring of investment bank to sell new Petrom shares
e TORs for regulatory and structural assessment of network industries
 submission of draft law on Security Interests in Personal Property, and development of options for
registration of security interests of movable property
 issuance of new order on financial audits
 approval of draft law for Court of Accounts
- drafting of TORs to assess obstacles to business sector development
Financial Sector
* modification of the norms applying to the Law on Bank Privatization
*  development of terms of reference to appoint an auditor to initiate a due diligence on BCR
* completion of least cost proposals for restructuring/recapitalization of Bank Agricola
* termination of asset transfers to Danube Restructuring Fund
*  development of Bancorex liquidation plan and appointment of liquidation expert
* adoption of new CARs and other solvency/liquidity requirements based on IAS
* evidence of sanctions applied by NBR on banks not in compliance with prudential norms
* issuance of delailed instructions for preparation of banks' annual reports and financial statements
* adoption of regulation regarding tax deductibility and requirements for loss provisioning
*  establishment of ARA and appointment of board and management
Second tranche conditions include (refer to matrix):
Enterprise Sector
* completion of tendering process for three of four large SOE privatizations
* selection of 10 large SOEs (five each) for privatization and work-out/liquidation
* offering of pools of at least 30 large SOEs from SOF portfolio for privatization



36
* liquidation of at least 15 large SOEs and 600 SMEs, accounting for at least 5% of SOF portfolio
equity
* SOF offer to sell at least 160 SOEs in which it holds residual shares
* appointment of liquidators or termination of operations of SOEs, generating at least 12% of SOF losses
*  reduction of at least 25% of ac'xounting losses of six mining companies in 1999 (against 1998
statements)
* conclusion of contracts for closure of 10 mines
*  offer of new shares valued at a minimum 35% of Petrom capital
* establishment of independent regulatory agency for electricity and heat
*  completion of regulatory and structural assessment of electricity, telecommunications, railways, and
oilgas sectors, and appointment of advisors for privatization of electricity generation/distribution
* enactment of law on Security Interests in Personal Property, and implementation of plan for
registration of security interests of personal property
* submission of draft amendment to Parliament of corporate income tax and draft law on personal
income tax, along with program for adoption and implementation and assessment of fiscal impact
* enactment of new law on privatization including reform of bankruptcy process
* adoption of bylaws of Audit Chamber
* completion of business environment study
Financial Sector
- advanced preparation for privatization of BCR and Bank Agricola
* adoption of irreversible measures implement liquidation plan for Bancorex
* integration and reorganization of supervisory functions into one department
* submission of NBR reports regarding on-site inspections, and banks' compliance with prudential
norms, audit requirements, and loan loss provisioning
* issuance of regulations to banks specific to reporting requirements on loan classification and
provisioning
* all needed appointments made to make ARA operational
* establishment of a plan to establish a Government securities market, including a computerized clearing
and settlement system
D. Loan Features and Components
122.  The PSAL is for the amount US$300 million, and will be disbursed in two equal tranches.
E. Monitoring Arrangements
123.  All records and accounts of operations under this Loan, including the Deposit Account and
Statements of Expenditure, will be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, in
accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines. The annual audit reports will be submitted to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case, not later than six months after the date for such audit.
124.  The Government is aware that achieving the ambitious objectives of the PSAL program will
require a major implementation effort (including technical assistance support) and close coordination of
actions and policies. Therefore, the Government has set up a Program Implementation Unit to assist with
implementation of the program.



37
F. Environmental Assessment Requirements
125.  In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environment Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex
E), the PSAL has been placed in category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.



38
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
126.  Benefits. Implementation of structural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors under this
operation will enhance Romania's prospects for growth and will reinforce its macroeconomic stabilization.
Privatization will increase efficiency in the economy as enterprises will be better suited to respond to
changes in market conditions and consumer demands. Improved financial discipline and stronger
governance will reduce losses and arrears in the SOE sector, freeing resources for private sector
development. Financial sector reforms would provide the basis for building up a sound and efficient
financial intermediation system and the development of a new capital market. Such progress will assist
with the development of suitable financial instruments for contractual savings, which will assist GOR over
time with its fiscal challenges. The program will also lead to substantially strengthened regulatory and
supervisory capabilities of NBR.  Economic stability and growth would help Romania achieve
creditworthiness and gain easier and cheaper access to external finance. A more dynamic and market-
based banking system overseen by more accountable corporate governance standards, strengthened internal
audit functions and management systems, and enhanced supervisory capacity from the regulatory side will
lead to improved resource allocation. Ultimately, this will lead to restored confidence, more stable funding,
and more effective intermediation.
127.  Risks. The main risks associated with the proposed Loan stem from the political difficulty of
implementing the ambitious Government program. Slippage in macroeconomic stabilization would further
complicate the implementation of the program, and would reduce its expected benefits. Political resistance
to restructuring and privatization adds to the risk that privatization may be delayed because of
implementation problems. The volatility of the political situation, but also the determinedness of the
government to see through the program is expressed by that fact that the governnent had to endure a no-
confidence motion in response to the passage of laws agreed upon as part of the PSAL. Another key risk
derives from the negative impact the program is likely to have on poverty in the short- to medium-term,
particularly because (a) Romania is judged weak on safety nets; (b) job losses must occur through mine
closures and are likely to be substantial through mass privatization; and (c) wages are already low,
implying that the families of many of those laid off are not far above the poverty line to start with. This
risk is partly mitigated by the support provided under the PSAL for unemployment insurance, severance
pay, micro-credit, and other forms of financial coverage that will assist those declared redundant as a result
of needed structural reforms. Other risks that could surface include insufficient capacity in public
administration for satisfactory implementation (e.g., Romania gets a low score on all three "Quality of
Public Service" ratings) of the program, together with lack of political will in parts of the administration;
here, the role of foreign investment banks and other agencies will help contain the magnitude of risk. A
additional risk is that privatization to foreign buyers under the direction of foreign advisors and investment
banks may be perceived as "giving away" enterprises to foreigners who seek to benefit from the need to
accelerate reforms while Romanians endure poverty. Finally, potential risk is created by the conflict in
Kosovo, which may affect Romania's attractiveness for foreign investors.
128.   Poor economic performance in recent years has added momentum for change, and there is public
support for measures taken to put the enterprise and financial sectors on a sounder footing. Overall, the
risks appear manageable and the Government of Romania has demonstrated a strong commitment to reform
by implementing many of the policy measures proposed under the PSAL before the approval of the Loan.
This latter point is not only driven by the difficult financial situation in which the governnent finds itself,
but also by the broad recognition of the failure of past efforts to muddle through without a clear strategy
for reform. We expect the PDSAL to further enhance the conditions under which a consistent long term
strategy for economic reforms can be implemented.



39
IX. RECOMMENDATION
129. I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Caio Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
June 10, 1999
Vice President                             Johannes Linn
Country Director                           Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director                            Lajos Bokros
Program Team Leader                        Khaled Sherif



40
Annex 1
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Table Al Main Macroeconomic Indicators
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1 997   1998
Real Economy
Real GDP growth,          %      -8.8    1.5    3.9    6.9    3.9   -6.6   -7.3
Share of lndustry in GDP,   %    38.3   33.8   35.6   34.6    36    35.6   31.7
Unemployment rate (eop)    %     7.4    9.5    10.9   8.9    6.3    8.8    10.5
Exchange rate
Lei per US$(eop)                 433    1141   1774   2558   3750   7985   10951
Lei per US$(average)             308   760.1  1655   2033   3084   7168   8876
Real effective rate (90=100)             79.2    86    85.7   76.8   91.7   118.4
Interest rates (eop),      %__
3 month Tbill rate                na      52     62      45    63.26  98.59   75.95
NBR average int.rate              30.6  120.5   62.4  47.17  40.32   52.6  34.98
Bank lending rate                43.6  86.41   61.81   47.5   53.6   55.6   58.9
Bank deposit rate                32.9  42.47  49.49   32.4   38.9   34.1   42.3
Average lending money mkt rate    na      na     na      na    51.69  102.3  159.0
1 1  1_   9    _  9      07
Fiscal data,                %  ]I T           r
Revenues                         37.4   33.9   32.1   31.9   30.1   30.7    32
Expenditures                      42    34.2   33.9   34.5   34.1   34.3    35
Consolidated deficit(+),(-)surplus  4.6    0.3    1.8    2.6     4      3.6     3
Primary deficit (+), (-) - surplus       -0.6    0.5    1.2    2.2    0.5   -1.9
Money and credit growth                            _
FD/M2,                     %      0.2    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3
M2/GDP ratio                     28.9   9.1    21.5   25.4   28.9   24.9   27.2
Cu/GDP                            0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
M2 growth(eop),            %      0.8    1.4    1.4    0.7    0.6    1.0    0.4
MO growth,                 %              1.1    1.5    0.4    0.6    0.3    0.8
CNG growth                 %      0.4    1.6    0.9    0.7    0.6    0.3    0.6
CPI Inflation. Eop,        %     199.2  295.5   61.7   27.8   56.9   151.6  40.6
CPI inflation, av.         %     199.9  227.3   139    35.3   44.6   146.7  59.1
External Data, USD billion                                                    .-
CA (w/o trans. Roubles trade)    -1.51   -1.23  -0.51   -1.73  -2.61   -2.33   -3.4
Trade Balance                    -1.37  -1.13   -0.48   -1.60   -2.49   -1.97   -3.1
Net external debt to GDP,    %    16.6   16.1   18.5   18.6   23.5   26.5    23
Cuffent Account to GDP,    %      -8    -4.5   -1.4    -5    -7.2   -7.1   -8.1
Gross reserves in months of imports   1.6  2     3.8      2     2.4    4.4    2.7
Of which NBR                     0.2    0.1    1.1    0.4    0.6    2.5    1.6



41
Table A.2    Selected Financial Sector Indicators
.___________                    1992          1993          1994          1995          1996          1997         1998
CNG$lCNGtot                       11.2         17.2          21.6          29.6          36.9          54.8          58.9
FD/CNG$                         155.3         154.0         115.0          85.0          71.6          89.9          86.7
FD/M2                             17.9         29.0         22.14          22.6          23.4          28.4          32.6
CNG/DEP                         132.4         143.2           14.9        113.2         107.5          67.8          73.0
CuJGDP                             6.8          5.2            4.4           5.2          4.9           3.7           3.4
M2/GDP                           28.9            9.1          21.5         25.4          28.9          24.9          27.3
CNGgrowth,                       38.6         156.3          93.5          73.3          63.3          33.8          64.6
M2 growth                        80.2         140.9         138.1          71.6          66.0         104.8          48.9
MO growth                           na        114.6         151.2          44.6          67.9          34.4          82.8
CPlinf,eop                        199           296             62           28            57           152            41
CPlinfav                          200           227           139            35            45            15            59
iEXR, eop, Lei/$                  433          1141          1774          2558          3750         7985         10951
IREER, IEF              I_ _ _                 79.21            86         85.7          76.8          91.7         118.4
Table A.3 Foreign Assets in the Banking System
Lao-96    Mki-97      Jurn.97   Sep-97    1ao-97      131-98    Feb.9      N4x-98     Apr-9
F are   ets9ninmimUS$)
BaIX igs mtan                       31443      2882.1      3734      4620.7    4670.9    44983       4486.8    4246.9    4253.5
fojex                              2097       1888.1     2677.1    3509.4    3699.5    3480.3    35031         32313      3213.
NER                                  1591.7    1605.5    2619.9    3225.6        3061     3053.4    3011.7      2940.6    3105.
folex                                546.1     611.5       1563     21143      2089.6    2035.4       2028       1925      2066
N8Rfovex rnaves'                     748.5      853.7       1966     2644.6      2530       2496     2491.1       2365     25012
Fo1     csitsofresidmts(rrilon US   1756.0    1977.1    1859.3    2018.4    2203.7         2188       2216       2290      2262
FD Lei bi                            7085.6   13831.7   13074.7    15365.7   176863    18049.0   17960.1    19445.7   18873.
1v, Li hi                           30334.6   37865.6   43956.9   51526.7   62150.4   60260.1   61838.6    63809.7   64884.6
FHIv2. %                              23%        37/o       3C0/o      30%/o     2S0/o      30/o       29D/O      30C%      29D/
1/ witdiisfic ad fbrgbnIs
Wv98       Jua-98     Jul198    Aug.98    Seq>9S      Oct-98    Nov-98    D1)-98       Jan-99
Fomiusts4      imUSS)
1MhigEStan                           4188.7    4188.5    41304       4013.6    3806.7    3623.9    3323.5       37893      3668.1
foex                                31863     32332      3172.4    3104.8    2857.9    2672.5    2353.6    2863.8    2774.4
NBR                                 3110.7    3056.8    3173.5    2961.9    2832.6          2675       2401     2299.1    2555.6
fouex                               2108.3    2101.5    2215.5    2053.1    1883.8    1723.6    1431.1         1373.6    1631.9
NBR foex rewives'                    2524.6    24344      2616.3    23064       2212.2    2040.8    1792.8      1662.5    1979.1
or  dqDsitsofieniclts (nilkion U      2282       2317      2365       2395       2375       2366       2327       2758      2773
FD, Lei bn                          19425.7   2088.0   2t680.5    213752    219422    22697.0   23459.7   30199.8   31739.l
4, Lti bh                           66869.1   69478.4   70993.4    72798.2   75068.3   76567.7   79196.1    92525.0   91953.
IYQ. %                                29%        290/%      290/o      290/o     29%/        G 300/o   300/o      330/o      350/
l/ withdlrmscc ad ftrgnl b L



42
Annex 2
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Time Table of Key Processing Events
Identification                         January 10, 1999
Preparation                            January 30, March 6, 1999
Preappraisal                           March 6, 1999
Appraisal                              April 19, 1999
Negotiations                           April 30, 1999
Board                                  June 10, 1999



43
Annex 3
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
May 4, 1999
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn,
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1. The transition of the Romanian economy has been difficult. As you know, the country has now entered
one of the most decisive moments along this path. However, since the present govermnent took its
position, we have consistently tried to accelerate structural reforms and to implement macroeconomic
stabilization. Following the re-organization of our government in the Fall of 1998, we have sped up
and deepened this effort, as demonstrated by the timely delivery of a 1999 budget within the parameters
agreed upon with the International Monetary Fund and by our track record in privatization,
restructuring and banking sector reform since then. The present government has also increased its
efforts in reaching agreements with International Financial Institutions for renewed support of its
economic reform program.
2. Yet, there can be no denial that the country is at a critical juncture. Our capacity to service the
external debt payments due this year is constraint, and the economy is challenged by weak banks and a
fragile financial sector. Ultimately these problems are caused by a "real" economy in which enterprise
losses continue to mount and where privatization and the development of a new private sector has been
slow, as well as by an "informal' economy representing about 20 percent of the 1998 GDP.
3. In this difficult situation, we remain committed to economic reforms, and not only with a view of
overcoming short term problems. The government of Romania intends to strengthen its efforts to put
the country on an irreversible path of market reforms so as to finally join the group of countries which
are seriously considered for admission into the European Union. To this end, we wish to implement a
series of comprehensive and long term reforms, extending beyond the program addressed in this letter.
Among them will be an overhaul of the tax system, with the introduction of a global income tax law as
its centerpiece, a comprehensive program for civil service reform, pension reformn and the development
of a cohesive strategy to privatize public utilities. We hope to realize these goals in close co-operation
with future World Bank programs, extending beyond the current PSAL. Inclusion in the Bank's new
Comprehensive Development Framework, which Romania has requested, is a first step in this direction.
We hope that it will help us to shape and to implement a strategy capable of enhancing the living
conditions of our citizens in a lasting way.
4. The current letter, however, is concerned with the more immediate request for a private sector
adjustment loan (PSAL). The objective of this operation is to enhance the role of the private sector in
the economy. To this end, the operation will focus on three immediate tasks: the liquidation and
privatization of state owned enterprises to harden budget constraints and to increase the efficiency of
the existing capital stock; the restructuring and privatization of the banking system which, burdened by



44
bad loans from absorbing losses of the state sector, is so fragile as to pose a systemic risk; and the
creation of a business environment conducive to the development of a thriving new private sector, a
prerequisite to enhance growth and development for the economy as a whole.
REFORMS AT THE CROSS ROADS
5. Currently, Romania is in a fragile financial position due to several factors The first and most evident
danger is a sovereign debt repaymnent schedule for 1999 which hampers its foreign exchange position.
As part of a short tern program to avoid a financial crisis, the government of Romania has agreed with
the IMF not to use the resources of multilateral lenders to meet these payment requirements and to seek
refinancing from the private sector instead. On the other hand, the repayment peak fall in May and
June, before Romania could benefit from the proceeds of the new financing for multilateral creditors.
Secondly, our domestic banking system is in a precarious situation. For years state-owned banks have
been forced to act as one of the "buffers" which would absorb the losses generated by state owned
enterprises, and, on the other hand such banks have had bad lending policies. Therefore, large state
owned banks, with portfolios dominated by bad loans and lack of effective governance, now create a
systemic threat. We have started to tackle this problem by implementing immediate restructuring and
downsizing programs for the biggest state owned banks, starting from Banca Agricola and extending to
Bancorex.  These reforms, carried out in close co-operation with the World Bank, target the
privatization of the remaining state owned banks as an assurance against future inefficiencies.
6. Finally, Romania's commercial banking sector is characterized by a pronounced currency mismatch
and is unable to meet any serious demand for cash payment of forex deposits on part of the population.
This implies a direct link between the precarious external position and the fragile domestic financial
system. Essentially, the balance of payment problems can easily translate into an accelerated domestic
demand for hard currency, and vice versa.
7. We hope to address the systemic risk by implementing the macroeconomic framework recently agreed
and in close cooperation withthe International Monetary Fund. This implies that we will have to speed
up our efforts and take radical measures to restructure the domestic financial sector according to up-
front actions agreed with the IMF. The macroeconomic policies agreed with the Fund will reduce
external imbalances and the current account deficit. To this end, they will combine a manageable and
falling domestic deficit with an anti-inflationary monetary program which guarantees and maintains
trust in the Lei. The continued restructuring of the banking sector and the introduction of a fully
operational secondary market for government securities should result in a financial sector better
positioned to withstand sudden shocks.
8. Despite the seriousness of the current situation, we are convinced that the short tern problems can be
overcome by closely sticking to the policies described above. Agreement with the IMF and the World
Bank is essential to achieve these immediate targets. However, we are also aware of the underlying
causes of the present situation, and intend firmly to address their causes. In this respect, the PSAL
provides the basis for long term improvements.
9. Progress over the medium and long term means, first and foremost, to address the structural weakness
of the enterprise sector. An enterprise sector continually operating in the red, forces upon the economy
the task of compensating for aggregate losses somewhere else in the system. Most commonly these
losses translate into the accumulation of payment arrears. The tax authorities, other enterprises
(especially public utilities) and to a certain extent banks carry the burden of such losses which finally
are covered by each tax payer. A decisive program of restructuring, centered around a massive sell-off
of state owned enterprises and the liquidation of non-privatizable ones, is the most urgent task in
addressing this problem. The implementation of a strict macroeconomic policy will at the same time



45
have to enforce hard budget constraints on those parts of the economy which have acted as a buffer for
these losses much too long. The restructuring and privatization of the state owned banks is also a
reform that will help accomplish this same purpose.
10. The social and human costs of this endeavor in the short term are potentially large, and so are the
political risks. After years of lagging reforms, with productivity on the decline and alternative
employment opportunities rare, large parts of the population have become understandably averse to
reform rhetoric that induces no real change. Powerful interest groups have become entrenched,
siphoning off further funds from an already marauded economy. At the same time, the financial means
to offer social protection will continue to shrink until economic growth can absorb those who lost their
incomes due to enterprise restructuring or liquidation. This raises the problem of how to accelerate
growth in a competitive new private sector that is capable of compensating at least partially for lost
opportunities in the old public sector.
11. New private enterprises in Romania face conditions which so far have prevented the emergence of a
flourishing business sector incomplete legislation, bureaucracy and low capacity to enforce at least the
existing rules and regulations. These constraints raise the costs of reform and restrict the government's
room to maneuver in important dimensions. They narrow the tax base, thus making the fiscal
environment more inhospitable to the speedy conclusion of necessary reforms. They increase the social
costs at all levels of enterprise reform by reducing the chance of dismissed workers to find employment
elsewhere. They also create incentives for firms to avoid registration resulting in a large class of small
production units with shifting and temporary business goals. These businesses are undercapitalized,
and their capacity to develop beyond a certain size remains constrained by their insecure economic
status. They are not capable of absorbing all the labor released from the state sector. Moreover,
competition with an unofficial sector which is not subject to tax and social security requirements
further increases the upstart costs of new, legitimate businesses - creating a vicious cycle of raising tax
rates to compensate for a shrinking tax base, which then shrinks because the rates went up. For all
these reasons growth of the new private sector is essential. It has acted as an engine of economic
growth in other transition economies, and can, if conditions are correct, do the same in Romania.
12. The envisaged PSAL program is designed to address the three most pressing issues outlined above.
While providing urgently needed support, it bridges the gap toward a more stable base that will foster
further progress in the future and will support necessary reforms. Already, the govemment of Romania
has established a track record and achieved remarkable progress in kick-starting reforms in the three
main areas outlined above - restructuring the financial system, divestiture to curtail enterprise losses,
and measures to improve the business climate.
13. In this respect we would like to emphasize certain accomplishments. The first one, is the wave of large
and small scale privatizations which has dominated the headlines in recent months. Among them some
large loss makers such as Petromidia as well as industries where we hope that the expertise of a
strategic investor will unlock future growth potential (RomTelecom). Second, two state-owned banks
have already been privatized (BRD and Banc Post) and serious measures to prepare bank privatization
have been undertaken, such as the twinning of Banca Agricola and the re-affirmation of the National
Bank's supervisory responsibility by the imposition of special administration over Bancorex, with a
view to its quick downsizing. Third, we have approved, in a timely fashion, a budget in accordance
with agreements reached with the International Monetary Fund. These will guarantee the continuation
of fiscal and monetary restraint to safeguard economic stability.  A safe and stable internal
environment is also the first precondition for accomplishing the desired acceleration of new private
sector business. Finally, we have introduced comprehensive measures to unshackle new private
business by protecting it from unequal treatment and by preparing drafts to implement a whole set of
new tax laws, starting with the introduction of a global income tax law and the introduction of a
secured transaction law.



46
14. At this time we request your support in maintaining the momentum of economic reformn in Romania.
We have started the process in the most decisive manner possible under current difficult circumstances
both domestically and internationally and we do not intend to slow or stop it even if the conflictual
events in the area keep away strategic investors. We are looking forward to the post crisis period and
want to take the steps now to ensure future growth. Your co-operation would be appreciated as an
essential element in achieving this goal.
15. In addition to macroeconomic targets we propose the following policies in six broad areas: (i) the
restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks; (ii) the development of a transparent government
securities markets; (iii) the liquidation and privatization of state-owned enterprises; (iv) the
restructuring of public utilities; and (v), the improvement of the business environment and (vi)
mitigation of social costs of enterprises restructuring. We outline the specific proposed measures in
each broad area below.
MACROECONOMIC OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
16. The macroeconomic situation in 1998 was characterized by a combination of negative GDP growth (-
7.3 percent in 1998) and a widening current account deficit (7.7 percent of GDP), despite fiscal
restraint and a real appreciation of the currency. In this situation, the Government of Romania has
reached agreement with the IMF on the main macroeconomic objectives for 1999. These are
characterized by a continuation of past efforts at macroeconomic stabilization, including the reduction
of the fiscal deficit from 5.7 percent in 1998 to 3.9 percent this year, not taking into account the
privatization revenues (or 3.8 percent to 2.7 percent respectively with the privatization revenues) as
envisaged in the current budget, and monetary targeting to further reduce inflation, from 41 percent in
1998 to a target of 35 percent this year. Fiscal and monetary policy will also be employed to
contribute to a reduction of the current account deficit by continuing a policy of controlled devaluation
on the one hand; and by implementing decisive steps to control dollar wage growth through wage
ceilings and the implementation of a tight incomes policy on the other. Social expenditures as a
percentage of the budget will remain protected, however, and the budget will include a line item which
can be used to pay for reform-related costs, such as severance payments. We intensify our efforts to
find new possibilities to refinance from the private capital market the payment to be done for servicing
the foreign debt in the rest of 1999.
17. The Government agreed to observe targets for structural adjustment, most importantly the downsizing
of Bancorex and other loss-making enterprises. A further strengthening of the supervisory capacity of
the National Bank will accompany the efforts at structural reforms in the banking sector. To this end,
the government will reach agreement with the World Bank on a detailed package of structural reformns
in the financial and the enterprise sectors.
RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION OF STATE OWNED BANKS
18. The privatization process has to guarantee the effective transfer of control from government to the
private sector. No "golden-share" arrangement will thus be considered, and at least 51% of each
bank's share will be transferred to reputable private investors or 90% to the public, if those shares are
publicly tradable on an organized market (BSE or RASDAQ). The aim of allowing for a floatation is
to stimulate the development of secondary securities markets, to prepare the road for a direct source of
finance for Romanian enterprises.
19. Currently, however, financial intermediation is still dominated by commercial banks.  The
Government's first priority is thus to improve the effectiveness of the financial system by introducing
sound banking standards and a healthy, competitive environment. The process was started with the



47
privatization of Banca Romana pentru Dezvoltare (BRD) in December 1998, and the completion of
the sale of the SOF's controlling position in Banc Post in March 1999. However, the initial experience
with bank privatization also demonstrates the need for further modifications of the legal system to
streamline the time-consuming current procedures.
20. As part of the broader need for completion and simplification of the legal structure in our country, we
will therefore modify the implementation norms of the Bank Privatization Law to allow for a single
phase procedure; the new norms, which will be added to the recently promulgated Banking Law, the
Law on Bank Insolvency and the Law on the Statute of the NBR, will make further operations simpler
and faster. To pilot this effort, we will appoint a privatization commission for Banca Comerciala
Romana (BCR) and will select a privatization advisor for BCR with the objective to complete the due
diligence report on the loan portfolio and to carry out the privatization.
21. The liquidation, restructuring and privatization of two of the largest, and also most troubled, state
owned banks is a key target in the government's short term strategy. Banca Agricola and Bancorex
deserve special attention: they are the largest borrowers in the interbank market, carry large bad loan
portfolios and have for a long time adversely affected the macroeconomic environment. In addition,
recent events surrounding the restructuring of Bancorex have demonstrated the systemic risk inherent in
a failure to deal with these institutions decisively. The immediate restructuring and downsizing of these
banks is urgently necessary to eliminate from the system the deadlock inherited from the past.
22. For Banca Agricola (BA), already under a twinning arrangement with the Bank of Ireland, we will
institutionalize the production of regular and thorough reports, endorsed by the NBR, to document the
implementation of the restructuring process (including diversification of the areas of operation,
reduction of redundant staff, closure of unprofitable branches) and to facilitate surveillance. A
privatization advisor will be appointed to assist the restructuring committee of BA in the
implementation of the restructuring plan for privatization and signal to markets and to potential
investors that the bank has effectively been restructured and that the privatization target is irreversible.
The government has put in place all necessary measures to stop the transfer of any new assets to the
Danube restructuring Fund. At least 50% of non perforning assets of Banca Agricola will be thus
transferred to ARA.
23. After the NBR invoked special administration for Bancorex (BX), a comprehensive downsizing plan
with detailed timelines has been agreed upon with World Bank experts in an attempt to reduce losses.
24. The case of Bancorex and Banca Agricola teaches an important lesson for the conduct of normal
banking activities. Liquidity and solvency requirements need to be stricter. The NBR needs to play a
much more active role in enforcing them and in monitoring the day to day activities of conmmercial
banks, including the control of minimum capital adequacy requirements in line with the risk profile of
individual bank assets. This is not possible without the universal adoption of internationally accepted
accounting standards. A unified Chart of Accounts for banks has been introduced at the beginning of
this year and we have agreed on a bundle of regulations designed to tighten provision and review
requirements. These include the requirement of the NBR to report back on its efforts to improve the
supervision of banks. This reporting should demonstrate that on site inspections are being carried out
at least once every two years, that commercial banks are in compliance with prudential regulations, or
describe the measures taken against the banks that are not in compliance with such regulations. It will
further demonstrate that the banks are in compliance with mandatory audit requirements or describe the
measures taken against those which are not in compliance with such requirements; also, it will
demonstrate that the applicable regulations regarding loan loss provisioning have been implemented.
These rules render monitoring feasible and objective. Violations of prudence requirements will trigger
clear and pre-defined action, including the possible suspension of management and license withdrawal,
with a view at reducing the room for discretion, corruption and other irregularities.



48
25. The enforcement of modem supervisory requirements will need a substantial strengthening of the role
of the National Bank. We have requested assistance from the International Monetary Fund to this
effect, which has agreed to place personnel for this purpose in Romania. The NBR's supervisory
functions will be centralized in one department. Staffing will be made adequate to start performing
regular on-site inspections so as to ensure commercial banks' compliance with prudential regulations,
and to enforce the implementation and effectiveness of measures taken against non-complying banks.
From our perspective, this is another aspect of imposing financial discipline which will signal to an
international audience that Romania has a banking sector which is sound and professionally ready to
deal with all aspects of the modem banking business.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET
26. With respect to the development of capital markets, equity-based financial intermediation has been
institutionalized and now awaits a more active trading volume, including revenues from privatization.
The samne is not true for the trading of government bonds. The absence of an operational secondary
market for government paper is the most glaring hole in the non-banking, market-based part of the
financial sector. The need to develop this market is obvious, in particular to improve the conduct of
monetary policy by facilitating efficient open market operations, which currently are carried out mostly
by competing for deposits; and to establish a market determined term structure of interest rates on
government paper. Currently, the interest rate is driven by erratic lending in the interbank market.
27. A functioning secondary market for government securities would thus provide a reliable source for
market-priced domestic financing to the Government of Romania, and in the process allow the NBR to
monitor effectively the structure and evolution of interest rates, and the financial market response to
economic policy. Providing an additional instrument for open market policies would substantially
reduce the pressure on interest rates caused by the present reliance on deposit management. In
addition, this measure will make available to the public one more tradable, fixed-income asset for
portfolio diversification, while at the same time avoiding the current liquidity bottlenecks experienced
by holders of government securities. The successful establishment and efficient functioning of this
market will generate a renewed sentiment of trust in public institutions on part of the citizens of
Romania and abroad For this purpose a computerized system for the settlement and clearing of
government securities will be established. The government will offer to physical and legal persons at
least four different maturities of such securities.
28. Blueprints in reforming the capital markets to this effect have been completed.  Although the
development of a new market can not be forced in the short term, the process can be started
immediately by implementing the rules and procedures already in place. Collaboration with the World
Bank will ensure that the necessary mechanisms become fully operational fast, allowing the authorities
to ensure that a broad maturity structure of government securities is established quickly.
PRIVATIZATION AND LIQUIDATION OF STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES
29. The losses that finally emerge as bad loans in bank's portfolio, or as arrears to the budget and between
enterprises, are generated by inefficient state-owned enterprises. State-owned banks, the budget and
public utilities have played the role of temporary shock absorbers that, at best, will delay but
eventually magnify an inevitable crisis. After years of slow progress, the problem needs to be
addressed at its source. Budget constraints need to be hardened toward the enterprise sector and by
this sector itself, to give incentives for the creation of profits rather than the siphoning of wealth.
30. With regard to enterprise privatization, this Government has already made considerable progress. By
the end of 1998 about 57% of the total number of firms originally in the SOF's portfolio were



49
privatized, almost 20% of them in the last 8 months of the year. While many of these represent small
and medium sized companies, we have recently also met with considerable success in sectors such as
telecommunication (Romtelecom), banking (RBD and Banc Post) and oil refineries (Petromidia). We
were much less successful in liquidating large or small loss making enterprises. However, experience
in both areas, the sale of the SOF portfolio and the largely ill-fated attempts at liquidation, demonstrate
to us that the slow progress in divesting state-owned enterprises is to a large extent due to serious legal
and institutional impediments.
31. Drawing the lessons, we will introduce a bundle of measures to streamline and accelerate the process of
enterprise divestiture and to increase the efficiency with which targets can be pursued. At the center of
these measures lies a new Privatization Law and associated norms that will address the two problems
which blocked progress in privatization and liquidation most: It will exclude the setting of minimum
prices which in the past often forced the SOF and its staff into sub-optimal decisions out of fear of
being brought to task by the Court of Accounts; and it will improve and streamline the liquidation
legislature, so that it is no longer possible to use the weak court-system to delay orderly liquidation and
asset work-out procedures. In addition, the new law will empower sales agents to carry out the
privatization of pre-specified enterprises (as opposed to the more limited role of privatization
"advisors"), require the provision of adequate reps and warrantees, and establish strict time limits for
the workout of enterprise debt and will facilitate the resolution of high levels of state debt on the
balance sheets of SOEs at the time of privatization.
32. The effective divestiture of enterprises will be accelerated along four lines. For large state owned
enterprises, we will initiate a program of case-by-case privatization, liquidation, and workouts. The
main goal of this program is precisely that of imposing discipline and to demonstrate that payment
arrears will not be tolerated. These measures will send a credible signal to the market that reforms are
being pursued in Romania, and assist in attracting new investment in physical capital and know-how.
33. To this end, the government will announce that four large state-owned loss-makers will be put on a
course of fast track privatization. Reputable international investment banks will be hired through an
international tender as their financial advisors and privatization agents. The government will also
approve the privatization of at five more large firms, and the workout or liquidation of at least five
others using international investment banks and liquidators hired through international tenders.
34. The second leg of the enterprise divestiture program introduces the concept of grouping enterprises in
pools and to appoint sales agents (consortia led by investment banks) which will be empowered to
carry out the sale of the firms in the pool for which they are responsible. Together with World Bank
experts, the government will have30 large enterprises e pooled and signed over to sales agents, selected
through international tenders, who will privatize them.
35. Thirdly, we will determine a list of firms responsible for creating at least 15 percent of state losses,
including subsidies, in the SOF portfolio, for immediate liquidation. We will start the liquidation or
terminate the operations for enterprises that generate at least 12% of the losses. COMTIM, one of the
heaviest burdens on the banking system, will have to be filed for bankruptcy by June, independently
from the targets defined above, if it can not be privatized until then. This is part of the conditions
agreed upon with the World Bank to release the last tranche of its recently extended ASAL program.
In addition, we will continue our restructuring efforts in the mining sector with contracting out to the
private sector the task of implementing the technical closure of at least 10 mines by the end of the
year.
36. Finally, the government intends to accelerate the privatization of large, medium and small-sized firms
through the SOF, to increase further the share of the private sector in GDP and to support a more
flexible segment of private enterprises, capable of absorbing shocks and of providing alternative



50
opportunities for output and employment. Because of its recent reorganization and decentralization, we
expect the SOF to privatize at least 30 large firms and 250 small and medium sized firms representing
more than 4% of total SOF portfolio, before June, and an additional 15 large firms and 600 small and
medium firms representing 5% of the total portfolio, before second tranche release.
THE RESTRUCTURING OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
37. Public utilities, next to state owned banks and the budget, are at present the largest absorbers of losses
in the economy because many enterprises simply do not pay for the services they receive. This
situation is in many instances aggravated by the fact that the energy supply for companies due to
technical and engineering reasons is not independent from that received by municipalities and cities.
Often, the supply for single enterprises (for example, from municipal or district heating) can not be
disentangled from the supply for households, and the latter, in many cases, can not even be measured
on an individual basis. The accumulating arrears, on the other hand, threaten macroeconomic stability
just as much as the perhaps more visible outstanding bank loans.
38. To rectify this situation requires a long term effort and some strategic planning. In the long term, we
aim at the privatization of non-monopolistic units in the generation of power, heating and electricity,
and at the privatization of distribution networks. To prepare this undertaking, we will move on several
fronts immediately. Following the successful unbundling and commercialization of Conel, the
government will, in close co-operation with the World Bank, undertake a comprehensive regulatory and
structural assessment of the network industries with a view to their later privatization. It will also,
under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, hire a reputable privatization advisor to formulate the
strategy for the privatization of generation and distribution in the power sector. In particular, it will be
necessary to specify the tariff policy for electricity and heat in such a way as to eliminate effectively
the cross subsidies between the two sectors and between customers and industrial clients. A new
Electricity and Heat Law will be enacted immediately which is required after the plan to privatize key
utilities has been announced in public. An independent regulatory agency for electricity and heat will
be established in accordance with this law and will be fully operational before the end of the year.
39. Meanwhile, stricter controls will have to be enforced to prevent Conel, Romgaz and Petrom from
accumulating further arrears to the budget by improving collection rates. We will not allow arrears to
the budget to increase in 1999 (thus ensuring that budget revenues, at present calculated on a cash
basis, will not be affected by changes in the debt stock). To this end, the government will enforce caps
on arrears, including the cut-off of delinquent customers.
40. In addition to the case by case privatization of large enterprises discussed above, the government has
approved the privatization of PETROM, Romania's National Oil company. We have appointed a
privatization advisor to begin the actual privatization procedure.
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
41. Actions to improve the legal and regulatory framework are urgently needed in order to create
a better business environment. Again, this is an area where rapid progress will have to be
sustained over a considerable period of time, i.e. where the currently negotiated PSAL can
provide a useful bridge into the future by securing the starting point for later follow up
actions. For example, we are in the process of introducing personal income tax law and
amending the corporate income tax law which will be the centerpiece around which the tax



51
environment affecting private businesses will be shaped. A study of the revenue effects, tax
incidence, compliance cost and impact on the physical and legal persons will be completed to
assess the impact of the tax legislation. Many regulations will have to be adjusted to maintain
compatibility with the new legislation. Re-training, IT support and public campaign, will
ensure that the implementation of the tax changes envisaged under the aforesaid draft
amendment to the corporate income tax law and the ordinance on personal income tax, shall
take place according to the schedule.
42. The government will start this process now, under the guidance of international expertise, and will
commission a study to determine the exact requirements for improving the applications of business
regulations, the delivery of business services and the efficient administration of governmental
institutions interacting to private sector . In this area we would greatly benefit from direct involvement
of the Bank in helping us to draw up a better roadmap and schedule of the requirements for a
successful implementation.
43. In the short term, we will promulgate a security interests in personal property Law and the
associated rules of implementation, to increase the efficiency and sustainability of financial
intermediation by securing appropriate regulation of the use of tangible and intangible assets
as collateral. We will select an option for the registration of security interests in movable
property and prepare and implement it. Small and medium enterprises and rural entrepreneurs
will specifically benefit from this law. In addition, we will implement sound internationally
recognized accounting and audit standards Implementation will have to be phased gradually,
but as speedily as the training of accountants and auditors allows.  In parallel an Audit
Chamber will be established based on a special law. The new Privatization Law, discussed
above, will contain key provisions regulating liquidation procedures, amending the scattered
and incoherent rules currently in place. Bankruptcy Law and procedures will be streamlined
in conjunction with the Privatization Law. We will further undertake a comprehensive review
of impediments to investment and business in the private sector in order to be able to quickly
relieve the private sector from the hindrances of excessive bureaucracy, unclear and
contradictory rules and regulations, and from gaps in the legal framework.
MITIGATING THE SOCIAL COSTS OF ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
44. In order to mitigate the potentially large human costs, and to prevent social unrest, we have to
accompany these enterprise restructuring programs with solid social protection measures. Having in
view that these social protection measures will be implemented during a period of severe financial
constraints, we have to improve the efficiency and the effectiveness of the already existing programs,
and create an adequate legal framework allowing for a more pro-active approach of the labor market,
and to increase the labor force flexibility. For these reasons, the Government will pay special attention
to the following areas: (i) provision of adequate yet sustainable income support to displaced workers,
without undermining work incentives; (ii) fully financing the unemployment fund deficit; (iii)
improvement of the assistance to the displaced workers in obtaining alternative employment through
active labor market measures; (iv) strengthening the social safety-net for the long term unemployed,
and the poorest in the society; (v) raising the awareness of the general public regarding the rationale of
these overall reform measures and of displaced workers on the need to search proactively for
alternative employment opportunities; and (vi) in cases where enterprises to be liquidated or privatized
have social assets (such as kindergartens, schools, clinics), government will ensure that such assets will
be transferred to the appropriate government agencies and financial provisions made for the on-going
operation of such assets.



52
45. Income Support. The existing legal framework provides, through highly fragmented pieces of
legislation, various privileged severance packages to workers laid-off from different industries, released
in an unsatisfactory manner. In order to improve both efficiency and work incentives, the severance
packages should be unified within a more equitable framework, thus to provide for the: (i) replacement
of Unemployment Benefit by Labor Market Re-insertion Allowance (LMRA) (under similar terms and
conditions); (ii) such allowance to commence only after severance payment period has ceased; (iii) all
special severance privilege arrangements to be cancelled;(iv) severance payment to be based upon
average wage of the company rather than average wage of the industrial branch; (v) all severance
payments to be paid in equal monthly installments, except when the worker presents a sound business
proposal.
i. Unemployment Fund Deficit. The estimated number of 200,000 new unemployed for 1999 will
place an additional financial burden on the Unemployment Fund, from where the severance payments
and unemployment benefits will be paid. The magnitude of the overall deficit of this Unemployment
Fund estimated of 0.2% of the GDP in 1999. Recognizing this, the Govemment will place a very
high priority on financing the deficit of the unemployment fund so as to ensure that all workers will
receive their full legal entitlement for severance payment unemployment benefit.
ii. Active Labor Market Measures. The implementation of active labor market measures, financed
though the existing Labor Redeployment Program, revealed low interest on the part of displaced
workers, regarding in participating in such activities, as a result of the poor performance in pre-lay-
off services delivery. In order to make these services more effective, and delivered in a timely
manner, the relevant legislation will enforce the provision of such services, and will allow their
contracting outside the Govemment Agencies, on a competitive basis. Evidence will be provided that
pre lay off services have been offered to all workers to be laid off. The post lay-off services, will be
diversified, by enabling the provision of micro-credits to displaced workers to help them establishing
new business. The micro-credit programs will be run by various organizations, irrespective the
ownership form, legally accredited for such activities. For this reason we are going to design and
pass adequate legal framework.
iii. Social Assistance.  The targeting of the social assistance programs is still poor, and their
implementation revealed many inclusion and exclusion errors. These programs will be thoroughly
evaluated, and based on the results, an action plan of rectifying the identified deficiencies will be
designed and implemented.
iv. Public Information. Pensions reform efforts have often faltered due to rising discontent in the
population. Recognizing this problem, the Government will develop and implement a high quality
public information campaign to inform both the general public about the rationale, costs and benefits
of all these reforms and a more targeted campaign to the affected workers to make them more aware
on employment opportunities and other services which will be offered.
46.  We believe we have made great strides to bring on track a consistent reform program. We
request that the World Bank supports this program with a private sector adjustment loan of
US$300 million.
Sincerely,



Annex 4
ROMANIA: Proposed Program of Policy Reforms (PSAL)
(Proposed Two Tranche Operation)
I. BANK RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
Program  Area          Measures Already Taken                                PSAL Action Program                                 Condition of
Privatization of State-  Phase I of privatization initiated, in  The Borrower has modified the norms of the Law on Bank Privatization to:  Board
owned banks.             conformity with the provisions of  *   Replace the two phases currently required for bank privatization with a single-  Presentation/
A bank will be considered   the Law on Bank Privatization, for  phase procedure (Current Phase I: appointment of privatization advisors to  First Tranche
privatized when control has  both Banca Romana de Dezvoltare  prepare the feasibility study and the evaluation report; and Current Phase II:  Release'
been transferred to the  (BRD) and Banc Post.  Together       appointment of privatization advisor to complete privatization). In the single
private sector (i.e., at least  these banks represent about 10% of  phase, the appointed privatization advisor will prepare, under the supervision of
51% of its shares are    total  banking   sector   assets.    the Privatization Conunission, the feasibility study, the bank evaluation report,
owned by either private,    Privatization   of   BRD    was   sale memorandum and complete the privatization;
domestic or reputable    completed in. December 1998 and of  *   Remove the SOF's current option of retaining either a Golden Share or an
foreign financial        Banc Post in March 1999.             equity position after privatization. Any shares that may temporarily remain in
institutions, or 90% of the                                   the SOF portfolio after privatization should be due to a lack of market demand
shares are held by the                                        for that bank's shares.
public and those shares are
publicly tradable on an                                   The Borrower has developed Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank for the
organized market - BSE or                                 appointment of an auditor with the object to initiate a due diligence of the loan
RASDAQ)                                                   portfolio of BCR.
The Borrower has: (i) submitted to the Bank a satisfactory restructuring plan for the  Second Tranche
privatization of Banca Comerciala Romana; (ii) appointed a privatization advisor,  Release'
acceptable to the Bank, for carrying out the privatization of Banca Comerciala
Romana; (iii) completed a due diligence report, satisfactory to the Bank, on the loan
portfolio of Banca Comerciala Romana.
'Tranche Release Conditions: PSAL Banking Component



I. BANK RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
Program  Area         Measures Already Taken                                    PSAL Action Program                                 Condition of
Banca Agricola     A diagnostic review has been undertaken  *   The Borrower has completed a financial. and operational assessment of Banca  Board
(BA) - the         by Bank of Ireland (Bofi). The Board of  Agricola to determine the least cost to Government for BA's restructuring and  Presentation/
restructured bank    Administration has been suspended and  recapitalization in advance of privatization, including a resolution plan for the  First Tranche
should be put on a    a Restructuring Comnmittee, chaired by a  Danube Restructuring Fund acceptable to the Bank.                   Release'
solid institutional    Secretary of State in MoF, has been  *   The Borrower has provided the Bank with satisfactory evidence that it has put in
and financial      established. A strategic plan has been   place all necessary measures to stop the transfer of any new assets to the Danube
footing to conduct    prepared, endorsed by the Restructuring  Restructuring Fund.
its future operations  Committee, and is being implemented.
in a sound and     BA has: (i) diversified out of agriculture;
prudent manner     (ii) introduced new fee based products
with the aim of its   and services; (iii) not increased the loan
eventual           portfolio  since re-capitalization; (vi)
privatization.     closed 61 outlets; (v) made 3,400 staff
redundant; and (vi) set quantitative
benchmarks for 1998.
Contract between BA and Bofl for
technical assistance to implement the
restructuring   and     institutional
development program has been signed,
and work has commenced.
The Borrower has: (i) submitted to the Bank a satisfactory restructuring plan for the  Second Tranche
privatization of Banca Agricola; (ii) appointed a privatization advisor, acceptable to the  Release'
Bank, to assist the restructuring committee of Banca Agricola in the implementation of
the restructuring plan for the privatization of Banca Agricola; and (iii) identified and
transferred to the Borrower's Asset Resolution Agency, in a manner acceptable to the
._______________  _________________________Bank, at least fifty per cent (50%) of the non performing assets of Banca Agricola.
ITranche Release Conditions : PSAL Banking Component



I. BANK RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
Program  Area         Measures Already Taken                                    PSAL Action Program                                  Condition of
BANCOREX (BX)  A new management team was appointed  The Borrower has developed a detailed BX liquidation  plan to wind down the  Board
- undertake a      in April 1998.                       operations of BX including disposition of all assets, holdings, investment, surplus  Presentation/
diagnostic review of  Special administration with irreversible  assets, and subsidiaries, and staff reductions in preparation for closure.  First Tranche
the bank's financial  time line for either liquidation (in case  The Borrower has appointed a Bank liquidation Expert, acceptable to the Bank, to  Release'
and operational    of insolvency  after  60  days)  or  implement the liquidation of BX.
condition and      declaration  of  solvency  by  NBR
implement the      (presumably after successful balance
measures           sheet restructuring) has been introduced
recommended in the  Consultant team has been appointed to
report.            undertake a thorough diagnostic of BX
and prepare a restructuring strategy.
Auditors have been appointed to prepare
an  end-1998  audit  according  to
international accounting standards.
Initial  financial   diagnostic   and
operational  assessment  has  been
completed, the results of which were
accepted by Government and the Bank as
the policy framework for recapitalizing,
restructuring, and privatization of BX.
Implement urgent operational stop-gap
measures as mutually agreed between
the Bank, the NBR, and the Committee
on Restructuring Coordination (CRC).
Finalize year end 1998 IAS audit and
financial statements.
The Borrower has adopted irreversible measures, agreed with the Bank, for the Second Tranche
implementation of agreed liquidation for Bancorex.                          Releasel
'Tranche Release Conditions: PSAL Banking Component



I. BANK RESTRUCTURING ANDI PRIVATIZATION
Program Area   Measures Already Taken                                           PSAL Action Program                                    Condition of
Tighten the liquidity   Minimum  reserve  requirements  NBR has issued regulations according to internationally accepted accounting standards to  Board
and solvency          were equalized at 15%  for both  be adopted for calendar year 2000 audits, that:                                  Presentation/
requirements, in      domestic  currency  and  foreign  (i) Set a minimum capital adequacy ratio (CAR) of total qualified capital (tier I + tier 2)  First Tranche
order to strengthen   exchange denominated deposits.    to risk-weighted assets of 12%; and (ii) Set a minimum capital adequacy ratio of tier I  Release'
NBR capacity to       Remuneration  by the NBR  of  capital to risk-weighted assets of 8%
identify problem banks  minimum   reserve  requirements  If the banks are not in compliance with the above CAR and all applicable norms, the
and prevent loss to   was set at the banking  sector  borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the NBR has applied
depositors from bank    average interest rate paid on sight  sanctions in accordance with the law.
failures.             deposits
Strengthen the        The   Borrower  has  provided  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the National Bank of  Second Tranche
supervisory capacity   evidence that it had requested IMF  Romania has: (i) integrated all its supervisory functions in one department; and (ii) staffed  Release as part of
and enforcement       support for immediate measures to  such department in a manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  the program
powers of the NBR     strengthen   NBR    supervisory
Supervision           capacity.
Department
Ensure that banks                                      The Borrower has submitted to the Bank satisfactory reports, prepared by the National  Second Tranche
comply with NBR                                        Bank of Romania: (i) demonstrating that on site inspections of Romanian commercial  Release as part of
prudential                                             banks are being carried out at least once every two years; (ii) demonstrating that  the program
regulations and                                        Romanian commercial banks are in compliance with applicable prudential regulations, or
enable NBR to apply                                    describing the measures taken against Romanian commercial banks that are not in
sanctions and                                          compliance with such regulations; (iii) demonstrating that Romanian commnercial banks
penalties for non-                                     are in compliance with mandatory external audit requirements, or describing the measures
compliance.                                            taken against Romanian commercial banks that are not in compliance with such
requirements; and (iv) demonstrating that the applicable regulations regarding loan loss
provisioning have been implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
'Tranche Release Conditions: PSAL Banking Component



I. BANK RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
Program  Area    Measures Already Taken                                      PSAL Action Program                                    Condition of
Implement sound,     A new unified Chart of Accounts  NBR in agreement with MoF have provided detailed instructions to commercial banks on  Board
internationally       for banks, in accordance with  how to compile their annual statements for the year-end, not later than January 31 of the  Presentation/
recognized           internationally accepted accounting  subsequent year.                                                           First Tranche
accounting standards  standards   was   implemented,                                                                                 Releasel
in banks, supported    effective January 1, 1998.     NBR has passed a regulation requiring banks to make 100% provisions monthly of (i)
by competent                                          interest overdue more than 90 days; (ii) any previously accrued but not received interest.;
accounting and        The new  Banking  Law  (Law  and (iii) on balance sheet exposure on other credit institutions overdue more than 30 days.
auditing practices.   58/1998) requires that all banks  Such provisions are made in the currency of denomination of the exposure and are tax
appoint  independent  external  deductible - provisions made in foreign currencies will be netted from the corresponding
auditors (Art. 61).             assets when calculating foreign exchange exposure limit.
Regulation requiring banks to
prepare  and  submit  quarterly
finanicial statements has been
issued.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the bank that the National Bank of  Second Tranche
Romania has issued regulations, based on the internationally accepted accounting  Release'
standards, providing that: (i) Romanian commercial banks shall, on a monthly basis,
produce a risk classification of their portfolio and provisions for loan losses which shall be
tax deductible; (ii) Romanian commercial banks shall classify in a loss category all
exposures (namely principal and accrued, but not received, interest) to clients against
which forced execution, bankruptcy or liquidation procedures have been initiated; (iii) all
such exposures shall be provisioned at one hundred per cent (100%) and shall be tax
deductible, irrespective of the value of the collateral attached to such exposures; and (iv)
Romaniani comumercial banks shall xvTite off against provisions all loans classified in a loss
category and overdue for more thani three hundred sixty (360) days.
'Tranclie Release Conditions: PSAL Banking Component



L. BANK RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
Pro   ram  Area       Measures Already Taken                                      PSAL Action Prog~ram                                   Cniino
g.                                                                                                                               Condition of
Create legal                                              GOR  has amendcd the Ordinance 51 establishing of the ARA  including the  Board
framework and                                             appointment of a Board and the ARA president, and the approval of the ARA's  Presentation/
institutional set-up                                      organizational structure, budget for its operations, and the ARA's statement of Policy  First Tranche
for orderly                                               and Operating Procedures.                                                      Releasel
disposal and
resolution of non-                                        For ARA and the PSAL and PSIBL PMU, GOR has issued an ordinance on salary
performing assets.                                        exemptions to ensure that expert skills can be hired into both institutions.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) the Borrower's  Second Tranche
Assets Resolution Agency has qualified management and staff members, and terms of Release!
reference for its operations, acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) advisors to the management
of such agency, acceptable to the Bank, have been appointed.
Tranche Release Conditions: PSAL Banking Component



II. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET
Program Area   Measures Alreadv Taken                                             PSAL Action Program                                       Condition of
Development of        US  Treasury Advisor has been  The Borrower has: (i) established, on the basis of a plan acceptable to the Bank, a  Second Tranche
primary and           appointed to assist the Government  computerized system for the settlement and clearing of govenmment securities; and (ii)  Release as part of
secondary markets in  to implement reforms in primary  offered to physical and legal persons at least four different maturities of such securities    the program
Government            and secondary markets.
securities.



III. PRIVATIZATION AND DIVESTITURE OF LARGE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES
Program Area   Measures A gread Taken                                              _                            A           _  ..r.                                           Condition of
Case- -y-case privatization/  As  of  12/31/98, 5,073  state  owned   The Borrower has: (i) enacted in Parliament a new  privatization law  acceptable to the   Board
workouts/ liquidations      companies have been privatized; of them,   Bank; (ii) approved norns, acceptable to the Bank, to implement this Law.                               Presentation/
Redu2e the spreading payment   184 are large, 1066 are medium size andFisTrch
arrears  to  utilities,  ote   3,823 are small size.  'They representitFrtTaci
commercial creditors, and the    iS of tae  toal  number of companies   The Borrower has initiated tenders for investment banks as financial advisors for the   Release"
budget,                     intill"         by the Soalnube of cofpathes
Support  financial  sector  initially" ownedbytheSOF26%12ofthe   privatization of four large conmmercial SOEs, as agreed with the Bank: (i) by placing
TestUCturing  by  preventing   capital stock and 46%/3 of the total   advertisements in lDevelopment Business, local and international press, as agreed with the
insolvency due to unpaid debt  number of employees thus transferred to   Bank; and (ii) completing, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Terms of Reference
of loss making State-owned   private sector.
companies.                  Between April 30, 1998, the FESAL   for the Request for Proposals for these ivestment banks
Start eliminating the fiscal and   closing date, and December 31, 1998
quasi-fiscal costs of supporting   1,077 conmpanies were privatized: (62   The Borrower has (i) completed tendering procedures and concluded contracts, satisfactory to the Bank,  Second Tranche
loss makers,                large, 222 medium size and 793 small size   with intemational investment banks for the privatization at three oftthe four large State owned enterprises,   Release"
constraints,                companies).   Some of the very  large   agreed witil the Bank.
Increase efficiency of large   enterprises which were privatized include
industrial  enterpinses   by   Romtelecom,   Romanian   Bank   for   The Borrower has: (i) selected, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, five large State owned enterprises for   Second Tranche
attracting new investment and   Development,   Petromidia,   Romaero,   privatization; and (ii) appointed intemational investment banks, acceptable to the Bank, for canying out   Releaset'
new owners.                 Sometra  lcond IUS Brasov  Petrotel   "chprvatizaton
Provide a credible signal to the        c       S        ,
market that reforms are being   Ploiesti, Laromet, etc.                 The Borrower has: (i) selected, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, five large State owned enterprises for   Second Tranche
pursued in Romania.                                                     workout/liquidation; and (ii) appointed intemational liquidators, acceptable to the Bank, for carrying out   Relea
such workout/liquidation.                                                                              R      s
0 Large coampantes -2%;ic nedean3 sve snteivrises - It2%; smasll tsee enterprises - 43%/
SOF initial portfoho comprised 8,907 companies, with a total equity of 74,600 bil lei
2 Large companies - 14%, medilim size companies - 9%; smant size companies - 2,3%
3 Large companies -14%; mediwn size enterprises -22%; smaD size enterprises - 0% (Al agreements subject to timely implementation ofprocurement regulatons by tie Bank)
5Trancle Release Condition. PSAL Privatization Component



m. PRIVATIZATION AND DIVESTITURE OF LARGE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES
Program Area   Measures Already Taken                                         PSAL ACTION PROGRAM                                     Condition of
Pool privatization/                                     The Borrower has selected 50 large State owned enterprises from the SOF portfolio,  Board
workouts/ liquidations                                  acceptable to the Bank to be offered for privatization in five pools of ten enterprises, to  Presentation/
using pools                                             sales agents to be engaged using international tenders, acceptable to the Bank.  First Tranche
To accelerate the                                                                                                                       Release"
privatization of many of
the larger firms, and the
low value of many of
the smaller ones, they
need to be put out in
pools to attract
investment bankers,
workout firms and
liquidators.
The aim will be to
divest all the firms in a
pool, through either
sale or liquidation                                                              .
The Borrower has offered in pools, acceptable to the Bank, at least thirty (30) large  Second Tranche
enterprises agreed with the Bank and has completed advisory privatization contracts with  Release"
sales agents, acceptable to the Bank, for the privatization of said enterprises.
n Tranche Release Condition: PSAL Privatization Component



III. PRIVATIZATION AND DIVESTITURE OF LARGE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES
Program  Area        Measures Already Taken                                   PSAL Action Program                                   Condition of
Privatization and     The   SOF   decentralized  the  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the State Ownership  Board
liquidations to be    privatization and liquidation of its  Fund has privatized in 1999 at least: (i) thirty (30) large State owned enterprises; and (ii)  Presentation/
undertaken by the     small and medium SOEs, in the fall  two hundred and fifty (250) small and medium State owned enterprises. The two hundred  First Tranche
SOF.                  of 1998, to increase the efficacy of  and eighty (280) enterprises represent at least four per cent (4%) of the total equity  Releasel
these operations.               portfolio of the State Ownership Fund.
By December 31,1998 SOF still
owned residual shares (less than  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the State Ownership
33%) in about 507 companies as a  Fund has privatized forty (40) State owned enterprises in which it hold residual shares.
result of the Mass Privatization
Program.                        The Borrower has: (i) identified, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, a list of State
owned enterprises generating at least fifteen per cent (15%) of the losses (including State
subsidies) of the State Ownership Fund; and (ii) has mandated the Board of the State
Ownership Fund to proceed with their liquidation.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the State Ownership  Second Tranche
Fund has privatized or liquidated at least: (i) fifteen (I5) large State owned enterprises;  Release'
and (ii) six hundred (600) small- and medium-sized owned enterprises. The six hundred
and fifteen (615) enterprises represent at least five per cent (5%) of the total equity
portfolio of the State Ownership Fund.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the State Ownership
Fund made firm offer to sell the residual shares it holds in 160 enterprises.
The Borrower has appointed liquidators for, or teminated the operations of, State owned
enterprises generating at least twelve per cent (12%) of the losses (including State
subsidies) of the Borrower's State Ownership Fund.
nTranche Release Condition: PSAL Privatization Component



m. PRIVATIZATION AND DIVESTITURE OF LARGE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES
Program Area   Measures Already Taken                                          PSAL Action Promram                                    Condition of
Loss Reduction and    The mining sector accumulates an  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that:               Second Tranche
Privatization Program   important share of the losses in the                                                                            Release
for National           State owned economy (about 29.9%   (i) it has achieved a twenty-five per cent (25%) proportional reduction of the accounting
Companies and Regies  by mid October 1998). Although  losses from operations (including subsidies) of the six mining companies agreed with the
Autonomes              significant cost reduction measures  Bank, as evidenced in their last available quarterly reports for 1999, by comparison with
have been take (closure of operation  the accounting losses from operations (including subsidies) of the said companies, as
in 113 mines, collective layoffs and  evidenced in their financial statements for 1998; and,
about    81,500      employees,
corporatization  of four  mining  (ii) contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, for the technical closure and environmental work,
Regies),  still  the   financial  with respect to least ten (10) mines, have been concluded.
performance    continues    to
deteriorate.
The GOR has approved cost cutting
measures in the mining sector
which will lead to the reduction of
losses from operations by about
25% over 1999.
nTranche Release Condition: PSAL Privatization Component



IV. REFORMS IN THE UTILITIES SECTOR
Program  Area        Measures Already Taken                                   PSAL Action Program                                   Condition of
Liberalization of     The Government has approved the  The Borrower has hired an International Investment Bank for the sale of the new shares  Board
network industries to   privatization  of  National  Oil  issued by the National Oil Company - Petrom                                 Presentationl
private sector with the  Company - PETROM.                                                                                            First Tranche
aim of enhancing      A number of reforms in the power  The Borrower has drafted TORs acceptable to the Bank, for a regulatory and structural  Release"
competition           sector were adopted: separation of  assessment study of the network industries.
the nuclear parts from erstwhile
Renel, corporate restructuring of
Conel into a joint stock holding
company,    owning    separate
generation,   transmission   and
distribution enterprises, setting up
of a nucleus for the regulatory
activities inside the Ministry of
hidustry    and     Commnerce.
Govermment intends to further
unbundle    distribution   and
generation to introduce competition
through whole sale trade of
electricity.
The Borrower has offered for sale at least thirty-five per cent (35%) of the total capital of  Second Tranche
SNP Petrom, including new shares.                                             Release"
The Borrower has established, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, an independent  Second Tranche
regulatory agency for electricity and heat.                                   Release as part of
the Program
The Borrower has: (i) completed a regulatory and structural assessment study, and an  Second Tranche
improvement action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the regulatory and structural  Release"
framework of the electricity , telecomnunications, railways, and oil and gas sectors; and
(ii) appointed international advisors, acceptable to the Bank, for the preparation of a
privatization strategy regarding the generation and distribution of electricity.
n Tranche Release Condition: PSAL Privatization Component



V. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
Program Area                Measures Already                                         PSAL Action Program                                           Condition of
Taken
Security Interest in Personal  A  draft  law  of  Security   The Borrower has submitted to the Parliament a draft law of Security Interests in Personal  Board
Property Law                   Interest in Personal Property  Property, satisfactory to the Bank.                                                      Presentation/
Increase  the  efficiency  and                                                                                                                         First Tranche
sustainability    of   financial  has been prepared by a team
intermediaries and augment the  of      Romanian        and  The Borrower has developed options consistent with the above draft Law  for the  Release"'
flows  of  investment  capital  international experts.   This  registration of security interests in movable property, satisfactory to the Bank.
available to enterprises by adopting  draft has been discussed with
a legal and institutional framework  numerous     Romanian
that would allow effective use of  constituencies  and   enjoys
tangible and intangible movable
assets as collateral to  secure  strong  support  from   the
financial transactions such as bank  private and financial sectors.
loans,    leasing    contracts,  While  introducing  modem
warehousing    receipts,   and  secured  transaction  notions
securitization    of    accounts  and instruments, the draft is
receivables. The framework would  p
be particularly important to remove perfectly consistent with
credit constraints for SMEs and  Romanian legal systems and
rural entrepreneurs who currently  traditions.
have negligible access to fomial
credit.
The Borrower has: (i) enacted a law on Security Interests in Personal Property; and (ii)  Second Tranche
issued implementing regulations relating to such law, satisfactory to the Bank.         Release...
The Borrower has prepared and implemented a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the   Second Tranche
registration of security interests in personal property.                                Release as part of
the Program
mTranche Release Condition: PSAL Business Environment Component



V. BusiNEss ENVIRONMENT
ro-gram  Area        Measures Alreadv Taken                                   PSAL Action  roram                                    Condition of
Introduce  reform  of  The government has completed with  The Borrower has: (i) prepared and submitted to the Parliament a draft amendment to  Second Tranche
direct taxes to provide  the assistance of GTZ a draft of all  the corporate income tax law satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) submit to the Parliament  Release"'
more  equitable  and  sections of a new personal income  the draft law on personal income tax, satisfactory to the Bank.
efficient taxation and to  tax act and a new corporate profits
improve          the  tax and the associated nonns and  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the bank that programs for public  Second Tranche
administration of, and  regulations                    campaign, IT, and training, have been completed so as to ensure that the implementation  Release as part of
compliance, with  the                                  of the tax changes envisaged under the aforesaid draft amendment to the corporate income  the Program
direct tax system.                                     tax law and the draft law on personal income tax, shall take place according to the
schedule contained in such draft amendment and draft law.
The Borrower has provided to the Bank a satisfactory assessment of the revenue effects,  Second Tranche
tax incidence, compliance costs, aiid impact on physical and legal persons, of the  Release as part of
aforesaid draft amendment to the corporate income tax law, and the draft law on personal  the Program.
income tax.
Introduce   a   more  The goveniment has completed a  The law enacting a new privatization law will include provisions: repealing E.O. 58 and  Board
effective and efficient  survey and assessment of the effect  amending the Bankruptcy legislation as necessary to accommodate the new privatization  Presentation/
system of bankruptcy  of EO 58.                        law, and constituting a bankruptcy review comunission to conduct a thorough review of the  First Tranche
and liquidation to assist                              bankruptcy process and prepare a report within 6-8 months containing recommendations  Release"'
in  restructuring  the                                 for further more comprehensive bankruptcy reforms. The commission will be comprised
private  sector  and                                   of members reflecting a cross-section of constituencies affected by the bankruptcy process.
dealing   with  non-
performnning enterprises.                                                                                                              _
m Tranche Release Condition: PSAL Business Environment Component



V. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
Program  Area            Measures           Alreadv   PSAL Action Program                                                        Condition of
Taken
Implement       sound,  The Ministry of Finance:        The Borrower has issued an Emergency Ordinance on Financial Audit.       Board      Presentation/
internationally          Completed a diagnostic review of Minister of Finance has issued an Order for the introduction of: (i) the Accounting  First Tranche Release
recognized   accounting  the   Romanian   Accounting  System Development Framework (volume l); and (ii) International Standards
standards and financial  Standards  (RAS)  to  reveal  Conceptual Framework (volume lI).
audit requirents.        compliance with EU Directive IV  The Borrower has agreed on TORs, acceptable to the Bank, for a program to
and IAS;                       develop: (i)  training materials; and (ii) training activities,  targeted  to
Prepared Romanian Accounting  professional accountants and auditors for implementing the law on Financial audit
Framework,    standards     , and the Order for the introduction of (i) the Accounting System Development
professional  guidelines,  etc.  Framework; and (ii) International Standards Conceptual Framework.
(volume I and II);
Submitted  to  the  IASC  the  The Borrower has approved a draft law for the Court of Accounts, acceptable to
conceptual framework and the  the Bank.
standards for endorsement ( n.b.
the endorsement means that the
IASC confirms the accuracy of
the translation of the IAS in
Romanian);
Prepared the draft law for
financial audit.                                  ._____-



V. BusiNEss ENVIRONMENT
Proeram Area               Measurer             Already  PSAL Action_Pogram                                                                   Condition of
Taken
The Borrower has adopted By- laws, acceptable to the Bank, of the Borrower's  Second Tranche Release
Audit Chamber.
Improve   the   Business                                     The Borrower has drafted TORs acceptable to the Bank, for a study focusing on  Board        Presentation/
environmnent.                                                the key areas impeding business development and identifying  a roadmap for  First Tranche Releasel
Both  foreign  and  local                                    reforns to streamline business services, regulation and public administration
businesses  face  significant                                affecting the business enviromnent.
obstacles    to    business
development.  Improvements
are needed in the application of
business  regulations,  the
delivery of business services
and the efficient administration
of govenmment ministries and
agencies interacting with the
private  sector  including
customs, taxation, labor, etc.
The Borrower has completed a business environment study and an action plan for Second Tranche
the improvement of the business environment, satisfactory to the Bank.          Release
mTranche Release Condition: PSAL Business Environment Component



VI. MITIGATING THE SOCIAL COSTS OF ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
Program  Area        Measures Already Taken                                    PSAL Action Program                                    Condition of
Provision of adequate  Workers are entitled to severance  The Borrower has enacted the Frame law for Collective Dismissals, satisfactory to the  Second Tranche
yet sustainable income  pay according to Ordinance 9 and  Bank;                                                                         ReleaseiV
support  to  workers  unemployment benefit for 9 months
laid-off     without  thereafter. Mining sector workers  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) has financed any
undermining    work  are entitled to privileged severance  existing deficit in the Unemployment Fund; and (ii) all unemployment benefits and
incentives.           terms   under   Ordinance   22.  severance payments have been paid to eligible workers.
Unemployment Fund (which covers
both   unemployment   benefits,  The Borrower has submitted  to the Bank a satisfactory report on: (i) unemployment
severance pay and active labor  levels; (ii) nominal and real unemployrment benefit levels; and (iii) a cash flow analysis
market measure) has already passed  and a financial forecast for the Borrower's Unemployment Fund.
into  an   operational   deficit,
estimated at Lei 500 billion for the
year based upon total layoffs of
200,000 workers.                                                    _
Assist workers laid-off  Pre-lay-off services and menu of  The Borrower has submitted to the Bank for review/comments, of the draft frame law for  Board
in         obtaining  post-lay-off services are provided  Collective Dismissals, (i) making it mandatory for such workers to participate in pre-lay-  Presentation/
alternative           currently by National Agency for  off services and (ii) permitting such services to be contracted from both private and public  First Tranche
employment.            Employment & Training established  service providers.                                                            Release
in  1999,  through  the  Labor
Redeployment Program (LRP)
funded through the Employment &
Social Protection Project.
Post lay-off services need to be
strengthened through the provision
of well managed micro-credit to
help   workers  establish   new
businesses.
The Borrower has submitted to the Bank satisfactory evidence that pre-lay-off services,  Second Tranche
agreed with the Bank, have been offered to all workers to be laid off.          Release as part of
the Program
The Borrower has adopted  the legal measures satisfactory to the Bank, on the  Second Tranche
_____________________________________________________ ..accreditation of organizations, for the administration of funds for micro-credits.  Release
Iv Tranche Release Component: PSAL Social Cost Component



VI. MITIGATING THE SOCIAL COSTS OF ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
Program Area   Measures Already Taken                                             PSAL Action Program                                     Condition of
Strengthen the social  After eligibility for unemployment  The Borrower has submitted to the Bank a report, satisfactory to the Bank, on: (i) the  Second Tranche
safety-net  for  the  benefits has passed, workers still  number of social assistance recipients; (ii) nominal and real social assistance benefits  Releaselv
long-term unemployed  unemployed and poor households  levels; (iii) the kinds and quality of social assistance benefit delivery systems; and (iv) an
and the poorest within  meeting  the  minimum  income  action plan for improvement of such delivery systems.
society                criteria  are  eligible  for  social
assistance. There is evidence that
social assistance is not working
effectively  as   many   eligible
households  are  not  receiving
benefits and the number receiving
has decreased whilst the economy
has   contracted   and   poverty
increased.
Raise          public                                     The Borrower has designed a public communications strategy under TORs acceptable to  Board
awareness   of  the                                      the Bank.                                                                          Presentation/
population in general,                                                                                                                      First Tranche
and    workers   in                                                                                                                         Release'v
particular, on their
need    to    search
proactively       for
alternative
employment
opportunities.
The Borrowver has implemented a public commtnication strategy on employment  Second Tranche
opportunities, in accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the Bank.        ReleaselVas  part
of the Program
'v Tranche Release Component: PSAL Social Cost Component



Romania at a glance                                                                5/17199
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central   middle-
Romania       Asia  income        Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       22.5      476      2,285   1             Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,390     2,320     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      31.3     1,106     2,818
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%/6)                                      -0.2       0.2       1.2
Labor force (%)                                       -3.2       0.5       1.3     GNP                              Gross
I per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  30
Urban populabon (% of total population)                57         67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69         69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               22         25        36
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)               6                    I . .           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   .                  84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   97                    19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  97         92       111        -     Romania
Male                                                 97                  116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               96                  113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios,
GDP (US$ billions)                             --    38.1       32.1      31.9
GrossdomesticinvestmentVGDP                  39.8     31.8      21.5      17.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP              -      26.6      29.7      33.1                     Trade
Gross domestc savingslGDP                             40.6      14.5       9.2
Gross national savings/GDP                            40 0      14.8       7.8
Current account balance/GDP                    .       5.4      -6.7      -9 4     D         -e                         n
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      1.3       1.5       18      Domestic .
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    17.3       30.7      30.8     Savigs                       I
Total debt service/exports                     ..        .      16.8      21.7
Present value of debtlGDP                      ..
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.1     -2.3     -6.6      -7.3                         Romania
GNP per capita                       2.5     -2.4     -8.9         .         ..              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..      1.7      2.1        ..        ..   I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1977     1987       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                    ..    13.4       21.0      16.0    10
industry                                       ..    54.1       35.6      36.9
Manufacturing                                ..       ..         ..             |        5    9    95   96
Services                                       ..    27.0       43.4      37.3    -10
Private consumption                            ..    50.5       75.4      75.6    -20
General govemment consumption                  ..      8.9      10.1      15.3                -
Imports of goods and services                  ..    17.8       36.7      41.6    _        _       GDl_    ----GDP
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)1
Agriculture                                    ..      0.2       2.2       -8.3    25j
Industry                                              -5.0      -5.0       95      2
Manufacturing                                                                    15 ..
Services                                       ..    -2.4      -14.0      -6.3    1 
Private consumption                            ..      0.7      -6.2      -6.0      o
General government consumption                 .-      4.0     -10.6               -5 l    93   94   95   99           9B
Gross domestic investment                      ..    -5.9      -14.5              -109
Imports of goods and services                  ..      2.0      -4.6                             Exports   - -mports
Gross national product                        3.1     -2.7      -9.2-                              rs         -p
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                                                 .10.9  154.8  59.1    300
Implicit GDP deflator                          -5.9      6.1      146.8      46.3    200
Government finance                                                                     100
(% of GDP. includes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                          50.4      30.4      34.5               93   94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                                   31.6        1.1                        -     GDP deflator  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    15.2         -3.6      -3.3    !
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ mfillions)I
Total exports (fob)                              ..  10,491       8,431      8,300     14.000
Textiles                                        ..       ..      1,942     2,161     12,000
Metals                                          ..       ..      1,556     1,583     10,000
Manufactures                                    ..   7,570       6,676     6,633      .0000
Total imports (cif                                ..   8,313      11,280    11,194    6,00i
Food                                                    111       695      1,012      4,000
Fuel and energy                                       4,722      2,408     1,676    , 2,000 1'
Capital goods                                    .   2,101       2,033     1,999          . '       ,,
Export price index (1995=100)                             94        105       108             92  93  94   95  96  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                             95        105       108                  Exports       I umports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 99        100       100    :
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ mi//ions)
Exports of goods and services                 7,357   11,261      9,955      9,508    !                        .
Imports of goods and services                 7,529    8,828     12,349    12,622      -1  92 j 93   94   95   96   97   98
Resource balance                               -172    2,433      -2,394    -3,114      2 j
Net income                                     -132      -390      -322       -513     -4                                 I
Netcurrenttransfers                              ..        0        579       617      .5
Currentaccountbalance                          -304    2,043      -2,137    -3,010      -7
Financing items (net)                           -30 . -1,002      3,802     2,167
Changes in net reserves                         334   -1,041      -1,665      843      -1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             .       ..    4,671       3,789
Conversion rate (DEC, locaJ/USS)                  ..    22.2    7,787.7  10,629.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(US5 milions)1                                          1987       1997              I Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS
millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            756    6,580      9,832      9,812     i
IBRD                                         288    2,039       1,387     1,444                    G: 751     A 1444
IDA                                             0        0          0         0                      71       A1,4
Total debt service                                ..        .      1,833     2,264                                     C 542
IBRD                                           17      373         98       170
IDA                                             0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 0        0          .         .1.                                     0 m149
Official creditors                             ..         .       597         -5
Private creditors                               .        ..       697      -672                                      E. 493
Foreign direct investment                       ..        .     1,224     2,040           F 5,433
Portfolio equity                                0        0        142       130
World Bank program
Commitments                                   237        0        590
Disbursements                                 145        0        399       298      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                            0      215         28        70      8 - IDA    D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Net flows                                     145     -215        371       228
Interest payments                              17      158         70       100
Net transfers                                 128     -373        301       128
Development Economics                                                                                                      5/17199



IBRD 2871 0
22'                                             24'                                              2I                                               2'
__                               ~~~~~U KR AI N E               Boov          < A~RO0M  AN  I A
)  ,~~~~~~  To Kokosapyn                      /                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
AR                                      re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~''                                                          o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES
HUNGARY                                                                                                                                    BOTOSANI/                o                             COUNTY (JUDET] CENTERS
\-BOTQSAN     ~    ~    e                      (W    NATIONAL CAPITAL
T,U   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~vono0
MA R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  ~~~~~~A-                                                                                    EXPRESSWAY
MARL  /'O'  lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    31                      -  ~~~~~~~MAJOR ROADS
V                                                                                          Ki~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h;-  J,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s   OTHER POETS
T'~.RIVERS
To Rodnpsst   j"             N   5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
/0  Ornden,~~~~~~~~~~~  a  -  *            '                         k47Piotrn- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETEES
ARAD                                                                          QIw ph.oDsj  u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~ ~     ~ 25      52       75    ITT
,;.~~   ~ ~ ..    A         Ro                                                                                                                                                    Rood                  IT  20 0        40 ~   5'0  60
46'
N                                                                                                                                                                                                  5-,~~~~..  UKRA          
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
5,' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
TnRsIwudej            I   Jio        ~        ~       ~      ~                           '5A   PAHOVfA    Y                                BR 8AILA(                         E
iteeiPl eti                     "N/-r                                                              C 
JAL M/TA               JX'"
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                                                 CACrooon 
(Serbila/Montenegro)
This atop woe produced by s0                                                                                              an              ~~~~~~~~CONS T 
Thi, ..p - P,~~~~~~~~~~~~~d-,i by h.~~~~~' 
Mop Design l,if lf The World ook.              e                                              
The houodorios, colors, deuouoiuoooro  TulaNE                              '        AlexGdiaOl
The World Book Gop n NBst~o~                                                                             "TsuMn
on sdr  -ynto oT.tnc  f
-h b-d-i-                  ~~~~~22'                                           24'                                                26'                                                  8
i        -                                                                                                                              M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AYT 1997



