Page  1
February 9, 2000
His Excellency
Decebal Traian Remes
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bucharest, Romania
Re:
Dutch Grant for Cofinancing of Private Sector Adjustment Loan 
Grant Number TF023319
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (IBRD) (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of 
grant funds provided by the Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
eight million Netherlands Guilders (NLG 8,000,000) (the Grant) to Romania (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance in the implementation of the program of action (the Program) supported 
under the Loan Agreement between the Recipient and the Bank (the Private Sector 
Adjustment Loan), dated June 17, 1999.  The Grant is made for the purposes and on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient 
represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director 
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes
Date:
February 24, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to provide support to the Recipient in fulfilling 
its obligation under the Program to finance existing deficits of the Recipient’s 
Unemployment Fund.
2.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
2.1.
The Recipient shall withdraw the proceeds of the Grant based on statements of 
expenditures to be furnished by the Recipient to the Bank, in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, evidencing amounts paid, or to be paid, by the Recipient on account of 
financial liabilities, dated not earlier than October 1, 1999, of the Unemployment 
Page  2
Fund of the Recipient. 
2.2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no request by the Recipient for 
transfer of the Grant amount in the Grant Account shall be made later than March 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the 
Recipient (the Closing Date).
3.
Implementation Generally
3.1.
The Recipient undertakes to utilize the proceeds of the Grant solely for the 
purpose specified in paragraph 2.1 of this Letter of Agreement.
4.
Audit
4.1
The Recipient shall:
(a)
have the Grant account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
July 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the 
Recipient, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Grant account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Cleared with:  Herbert Langer, Yvonne Rodrigo (ACTTF); Aly Abu-Akeel (LEGEC), 
Kenneth Miller (LOAEL), John Innes (ECSHD)
