Document of
FIL E COPY sur                   The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2259-LEBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The official monetary unit is the Liberian
dollar, with a par value equal to that of
the US dollar. Apart from the Liberian
dollar, the US dollar is a legal tender
in Liberia.
GOVERNMENT OF LIBERIA - FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACDB      Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
CDC       Commonwealth Development Corporation
LRPC      Liberia Rubber Processing Corporation
ODM       Ministry of Overseas Development (U.K.)
PSC       Project Steering Committee
RAS       Rubber Advisory Service
RDU       Rubber Development Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             The Republic of Liberia
Amount:               IDA credit of US$6 million equivalent; Bank loan of
US$7 million equivalent
Terms:                IDA credit on standard terms; Bank loan to be amortized
over 20 years, including 5 years' grace, at 7.45 percent
interest.
Prolect
Description:          The project seeks to increase Liberia's income and export
earnings from rubber through an intensive program of
replanting about 40,000 acres of old rubber and rehabili-
tation of about 24,000 acres of mature untapped rubber.
Improved farm inputs would be provided to about 6,300
small and medium-size farmers on the basis of credit
along with extension service, training of farmers and
tappers, and assistance for on-farm processing and market-
ing. The project would also aim at institution building
by establishing a Rubber Development Unit as a permanent
extension service and training of Liberian staff at all
levels. At peak production, the project would increase
rubber production from Liberian-owned farms by more than
100% of the present output and would bring about a sub-
stantial increase in productivity and the income of small
and medium rubber farmers. The project faces no special
risks that cannot be overcome through advance planning
and appropriate cultivation practices.
Estimated Cost:                                    ------- US$ Thousands -------
Local       Foreign      Total
Field Operations             7,119         4,101      11,220
Rubber Development Unit      3,900         5,590       9,490
Training                       630           990        1,620
Consultant/Studies              50           470         520
Nursery Land                   200           -            200
Baseline Costs              11,899        11,151      23,050
Contingencies                3,910         2,680       6,590
TOTAL PROJECT COST          15,809        13,831      29,640
Net of taxes                15,559        13.831      29,390
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Financing Plan:                                       --- US$ Thousands --------
Local        Foreign        Total
Bank/IDA                    600        12,400        13,000
CDC                       7,000           -           7,000
ODM                         -           1,400         1,400
Government                7,400           -           7,400
Project Farmers             800           -             800
Estimated
Disbursements:
------------- US  Millions -------------
Bank FY         1979      1980      1981     1982      1983
Annual           2.3       3.5       3.6       3.0      0.6
Cumulative       2.3       5.8       9.4     12.4      13.0
Rate of Return:        13 percent
Appraisal Report: Rep. No. 1771-LBR dated March 6, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT AND A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF LIBERIA FOR A RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$7.0 million and a proposed development credit for the
equivalent of US$6.0 million to the Republic of Liberia to help finance a
rubber development project. The development credit would be on standard IDA
terms and the Bank loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 7.45 percent per annum (The blend will have a grant
element of 46 percent). The U.K. Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM) and
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) would co-finance the project on a
parallel basis with a technical assistance grant equivalent to US$1.4 million
and a loan equivalent to US$7.0 million, respectively. The CDC loan would be
repayable over 20 years including a grace period of 5 years at an interest
rate of 7.5 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Liberia in March 1973.  Its report
"Liberia: Growth with Development - A Basic Economic Report" (No. 426a-LBR
dated March 1, 1975) was distributed to the Executive Directors. An updating
report entitled "Liberia: Economic Memorandum" (No. 873-LBR dated September
15, 1975) has also been distributed subsequently. An economic report on the
"Current Economic Position and Prospect of Liberia" (No. 1642a-LBR) dated
February 28, 1978 has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the
performance of the enclave sector consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are
the main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by far the largest
single activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one third of
gross domestic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages be-
tween the enclaves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits
of economic growth have been unevenly distributed. The enclave sector yields
a per capita GNP of about US$2,500 compared to US$550 for the rest of the
monetized economy.
4.        Another dimension of structural imbalance is the disparity between
traditional agriculture and the (monetized) modern sector. Traditional agri-
culture has minimal inter-action with the rest of the economy; however, it
supports the majority of the population - as much as 70 percent - who live at
or near subsistence level. With a population of about 1.6 million, average per
capita GNP in 1976 was US$450; about 4 percent of Liberians have per capita



- 2 -
income levels of US$3,000 or more while the great majority live with a per
capita income of about US$100 per annum. To help redress this imbalance the
Government is trying to increase its earnings from the concessions and use the
resources to diversify the economy with increased participation by Liberians.
Development Plan
5.        The Government has prepared a Four-Year Development Plan covering
the period July 1, 1976 to June 30, 1980. In preparing the Plan the Govern-
ment was assisted by a planning team financed jointly by the Bank, the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the Government (Reference: President's Memorandum to
the Executive Directors, No. R74-61 dated March 25, 1974). The Plan identi-
fies the basic, long-term objectives of Liberia's socio-economic development
as: (a) diversification of production; (b) dispersion of sustainable socio-
economic activities throughout the country; (c) greater involvement of
Liberians in development activities; and (d) equitable distribution of the
benefits of economic growth so as to ensure an acceptable standard of living
for the people throughout the country. The average annual growth of real GDP
during the Plan period is envisaged at around 6.8 percent. However, because
of delays in the implementation of expected investments in iron ore mining
and some slackening in demand for the country's main exports, the recent Bank
economic mission has estimated that real growth during the four-year period
is unlikely to exceed 3-4 percent. Total development expenditure is projected
at US$415 million, of which US$251 million would be financed from foreign
sources and US$164 million domestically. Firm commitments accounted at the
start of the Plan for almost 60 percent of the expected foreign financing.
However, the Plan is currently being revised to reflect the experience of the
first year and to incorporate effects of the world wide decline of steel pro-
duction on the demand for iron ore.
6.        The Development Plan attaches high priority to agriculture, parti-
cularly integrated rural development, as the cornerstone of the Government's
diversification strategy. The objective is to diversify and modernize agri-
cultural production, increase productivity, improve associated rural economic
activities such as marketing and processing, and provide social and physical
infrastructure to promote income distribution and improve the quality of life
in the rural as well as urban areas. The Government has already embarked on
two important agricultural development projects in the Bong and Lofa counties
which are being assisted by the Bank Group. Other projects in forestry and
rubber are expected to start shortly which will lead to greater participa-
tion of Liberians in the development of the country's principal agricultural
resources. The Government plans to convene a conference with UN agencies in
April 1978 to consider ways in which to improve the effectiveness of its
rural development programs. However, the shortage of adequately trained
manpower at all levels is likely to prove the most important constraint to
the Government's efforts to develop and diversify the economy. The Government
is keenly aware of this and has adopted a number of policy measures, supported
by the three Bank Group financed education projects, to tackle the problem.
However, by their very nature, these policies are likely to bear fruit only
in the long term; over the short and medium terms, the Government will have
to rely heavily on foreign technical assistance.



-3-
Recent Economic Developments
7.        During 1973-1975 Liberia, like most other developing countries, was
hit by higher import prices and international inflation. While strong world
demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore, brought large gains in export
prices in 1974, the 1975 recession in the industrialized countries signifi-
cantly reduced the demand for the country's most important export commodi-
ties -- iron ore, rubber and timber. With growth performance continuing to be
largely a function of enclave activities, growth of real GDP -- which averaged
about 6.4% a year in the 1967-1970 period has slowed down significantly and is
estimated to be about 2.5% in 1976. Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP
growth may have declined further during 1977.
8.        Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management and public
sector resources have not come under undue pressure during the past decade.
A satisfactory growth in government revenues averaging about 13.5% per year
between 1970-1975 enabled the Government to finance increasing expenditures.
Recurrent expenditures during this period grew by about 10% while development
expenditures increased nearly fourfold. However, public sector finances have
recently come under increased pressure which is likely to continue over the
medium term mainly because of an anticipated acceleration in the rate of
growth of government expenditures -- particularly current expenditures --
coupled with a more moderate rate of growth in revenues. The rate of growth
of government revenues is likely to be moderate in view of the anticipated
lower GDP growth rate as well as the continued recession in world demand for
iron ore. There may be scope for an increased revenue effort on the part of
Government as well as improvements in the efficiency and pricing policies
of the public corporations so as to ease the pressure on central government
finances. In this context, Government is negotiating with the iron ore com-
panies regarding its share in profits and future dividend distribution poli-
cies.
Balance of Payments
9.        During the 1964-1972 period, the value of merchandise exports grew
by 10% and imports by 5.9% annually in current prices. Thereafter, from
1972-74, mostly reflecting accelerated international inflation, imports rose
by 29% annually, exceeding the 22% annual export growth. Oil imports in-
creased from US$12 million in 1972 to US$56 million in 1974 but declined to
US$48 million in 1975 due to reduced mining activities. Nevertheless, Liberia
achieved a trade surplus of US$110 million in 1974, US$63 million in 1975 and
US$61 million in 1976. During 1975, Liberia received aid commitments of US$93
million: US$82 million in loans and about US$11 million in current transfers.
The World Bank Group was the largest donor in terms of commitments (43%). The
other major donors were the United States, Italy and the African Development
Bank.
Creditworthiness
10.       Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was esti-
mated at about US$170 million as of December 1975. Debt service payments as



- 4 -
a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services were estimated at
5.4% in 1975 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7% for 1974 and 1972 respectively.
Debt service payments as a percentage of government revenues have also de-
clined from 24.3% in 1972 and 21.1% in 1974 to 17.3% in 1975. Both ratios
are projected to decline further in the next few years as the final portion
of the heavy debt incurred in the early 1960s is paid off. The Bank Group
share of the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 16
percent and, based on commitments of the aid agencies up to 1975, is pro-
jected to increase to about 30 percent by 1980; as a proportion of public
debt servicing liability, the Bank Group share is projected to increase from
its present level of about 12 percent to about 35 percent in 1980. However,
with an expanding program of future assistance from other aid donors, the
Bank Group share may prove to be rather lower than this. Even with an
expanded public borrowing program, Liberia's debt service ratio through the
1980s is expected to remain relatively modest unless there is an unexpected
deterioration in external conditions. It should be noted, however, that
Liberia's exports are highly concentrated in a few commodities (mainly iron
ore and rubber) with unstable world market prices. Given the country's satis-
factory performance in economic management and its modest debt service ratio,
Liberia should be regarded as creditworthy for a significant amount of Bank
lending, blended with some assistance from IDA.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
11.       The Bank has made 14 loans (including one Third Window loan) for
projects in Liberia totalling US$77.5 million; there have been 5 IDA credits
totalling US$24 million and one technical assistance grant of US$200,000
for development planning. IFC has made two equity investments totalling
US$555,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for Development and
Investment (LBDI). The Bank loans have been for roads, port expansion, power
and LBDI; IDA credits have been for education and agriculture. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFG investments as
of January 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiatives in developing their own resources for the benefit
of their own people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to broader
sharing of the fruits of economic progress; (c) to help the Government in
broadening the economic base and in overcoming infrastructural constraints to
growth; and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing development resources
from other external agencies. In furthering these objectives particular
attention is being paid to the need to expand the supply of trained manpower
so as to relieve this potential constraint to development.
13.       In line with the priorities established in the Government's Four-
Year Development Plan, the Bank plans to give increasing emphasis in its lend-
ing program over the next few years to the agricultural sector. The Bank
Group is currently co-financing with USAID two agricultural projects currently
under implementation in Bong and Lofa Counties. These projects are designed



-5-
to assist a total of about 17,000 subsistence peasant farmers to diversify
their production base and to increase their productivity and income through
the provision of an integrated package of support services and infrastructures.
A forestry project has recently been appraised which would strengthen the
Government's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation program and
help Liberia to better manage and exploit its forestry resources. The pro-
posed rubber project would lead to expanded exports, increased productivity
and incomes for small and medium size farmers, strengthen credit and extension
service and promote greater Liberian participation in the development of this
sub-sector.
14.       In infrastructure, a water supply project is under preparation
which would rehabilitate and expand the Monrovia water supply system, extend
water distribution to lower income groups in the metropolitan area, and help
strengthen the management and finances of the Liberia Water and Sewerage
Corporation. A fourth highways project is also being considered which would
include improvement of priority sections of two primary roads including the
main access to the agricultural hinterland, and road maintenance. In the
power sector, a fourth power project is being proposed which would expand the
Liberia Electricity Corporation's thermal power generating facilities to meet
demand until a new hydro-electric generating facility has been constructed and
made operational around 1985. The project would also include management and
training assistance to LEC and service connections to about 5,000 urban poor
households in Monrovia. In the social sector, three education projects have
been financed by the Bank Group. The first two projects aimed at improving
secondary education, education planning and management, as well as extending
the educational system to rural areas through the provision of secondary
schools and 45 village community schools. The third project emphasizes
vocational and technical training.
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Characteristics
15.       Agriculture is the second largest productive sector in the economy
and provides one-quarter of gross domestic product. Agricultural output in
1976 totalled US$224 million of which US$94 million originated in the mone-
tized sector composed of rubber (US$44 million), forestry (US$35 million),
coffee, cocoa, palm products, etc., and US$130 million in the subsistence
sector. About 54% of the total population of Liberia or about 150,000 house-
holds work in agriculture. With 15 persons per square kilometer, average
population density is low, ranging from 5 to 20 in the various counties.
Thus land availability is not a constraint to the development of smallholder
agriculture.
16.       Liberian agriculture is characterized by small, traditional farms
that comprise more than 90% of total agricultural holdings. The traditional
sector is largely outside the monetized economy, located in areas with minimal



- 6 -
infrastructure and composed of farms where less than 5 acres are cultivated
each year, producing mostly subsistence crops such as rice and cassava and
some cash crops such as coffee, cocoa and sugar cane. There is little or no
adoption of modern innovation. The average income of the traditional small-
holder is less than US$120 per capita, compared with a national average of
about US$450. Alongside the traditional agriculture, there are large foreign-
owned plantations producing exclusively for exports (rubber, timber) which
are characterized by use of trained managerial and technical staff and ex-
tensive capital outlay. Also in recent years Liberian-owned commercial
farms have gained importance. These farms are primarily engaged in rubber
production but gradually expanding into cocoa, coffee, oil palm, and vege-
tables, as well as some poultry and livestock. Management of these farms,
with few exceptions on the larger ones, is generally inefficient and yields
are poor.
Sector Objectives and Strategies
17.       As stated in the Four-Year Development Plan, which earmarks about
one-fifth of total investment resources for the development of agriculture,
the Government's objectives for agriculture aim at diversifying and moder-
nizing agricultural production. Based on general ecological conditions, fac-
tor endowments and market prospects, agriculture has greater potential for
efficient diversification of the economy than any other productive sector
and could provide a continuing source of the country's growth and develop-
ment to supplement earnings from iron-ore which may in the years ahead gra-
dually decline. Within this framework the Government has adopted two basic
strategies: development of smallholder agriculture and development of indus-
trial tree crop plantations.
18.       In recent times the Government has been increasingly concerned
with the problems relating to smallholder agriculture and rural poverty.
Under the Four-Year Development Plan integrated rural development projects
are envisaged as a main vehicle for improving productivity, income and liv-
ing conditions of the small traditional farmers by providing a range of farm
support services and infrastructural improvements. Two such projects are
being implemented in Lofa and Bong Counties, financed jointly by IDA (under
Credit 577-LBR, Lofa County Agricultural Development Project and Credit
700-LBR, Bong County Agricultural Development Project respectively) and
USAID. These projects are assisting about 17,000 subsistence farmers in
the two Counties to increase and diversify production of upland and swamp
rice, coffee and cocoa by providing credit, inputs, extension services and
physical and social infrastructures. The Lofa Project is in its second year
of implementation and is making good progress. The project has received
necessary cooperation and support from the Government agencies and there
has been a positive response from the project farmers. The implementation
of the Bong Project has just begun. Another integrated rural development
project is being prepared for Nimba County with financial assistance from
Germany. A further integrated smallholder project was identified in Grand
Gedeh County and will be prepared for possible Bank financing by consultants
provided under the Bong County Agricultural Development Project.



-7-
19.       At the same time the Government seeks to establish large-scale
plantations, particularly for tree crops (oil palm, coconut, coffee, cocoa,
etc.), which would be operated by special commodity corporations owned by
the Government. The upland areas of Liberia are generally unsuitable for
permanent cultivation of annual crops due to low soil fertility. For this
reason shifting cultivation is widely practiced which, with increasing popu-
lation density, has a damaging environmental effect, particularly on the
country's forest resources. However, the ecological conditions of Liberia's
upland areas are generally suitable for profitable cultivation of tree crops.
The Four-Year Development Plan envisages implementation of the first phase
tree crops plantation program consisting of 5,000 ha oil palm, 8,000 ha
coconut, 4,000 ha coffee and 6,000 ha cocoa. Liberia is not a major pro-
ducer of these crops and its shares of world production are negligible
(in the case of coffee and cocoa, 0.2%) and will continue to be so even
after the implementation of the expansion program.
Sector Constraints
20.       A rapid expansion and diversification of the sector in the short
and medium term is constrained by several factors. The most critical factor
is the shortage of adequately trained manpower, at all levels but particularly
at the managerial and professional levels, to plan and implement an increasing
number of projects. Although some attempt is being made to deal with the
problem on an individual project basis, as under the proposed and on-going
Bank-financed projects, there is no comprehensive manpower planning and
training program for the sector as a whole. The Government is currently in
the process of carrying out a manpower study with USAID assistance which will
be used to formulate a comprehensive training program geared to the long-term
need of the sector.
21.       Another major constraint to the development of the sector has
been the institutional deficiencies in the delivery of essential supporting
services. The Government's extension services, input and credit supply
system are rudimentary and their impact has been severely limited. The
Ministry of Agriculture is aware of the need to reorganize its activities,
particularly to develop an effective structure for servicing smallholders,
and is working with consultants provided under previous Bank-financed
agricultural development projects. In the past commercial agricultural
credit was channeled mainly to large farmers, cooperatives and special
project farmers.  There was no smallholder credit apart from that channeled
through the Cooperative, Credit and Marketing Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture. The credit under these programs was limited and the credit
recovery was poor. In order to expand and streamline Government's agri-
cultural credit operation and as a first step in creating a framework for
institutional credit for the traditional agricultural sector, the Govern-
ment has recently established an Agricultural and Cooperative Development
Bank (ACDB). The Government has consulted closely with the Bank/IDA regard-
ing the appropriate organization and operating policies for this new credit
institution. Under the proposed project, ACDB would be charged with the
responsibility for handling the credit fund for the project rubber farmers.
The proposed project would provide technical assistance to strengthen this
new institution.



-8-
Rubber Subsector
22.       A distinctive feature of Liberian agriculture is the existence
of a dominant rubber industry, accounting for 70% of all agricultural ex-
ports and employing one third of the national labor force or 90% of all
agricultural wage earners. The rubber industry is divided into foreign-
owned concessions and Liberian-owned rubber farms. Six foreign-owned
concessions operate a total of 140,000 acres with capital intensive modern
management methods based on their own research effort. A Liberian-owned
private sector developed parallel to this, initially as an outgrower scheme
of the country's largest concessionaire, Firestone, to meet increasing rubber
demand during World War II. Planters have been highly responsive to fluctua-
tions in rubber prices. Two decades of declining rubber prices led them to
abandon and neglect many plantations. As a consequence only 143,000 acres
(38% of the total 375,000 acres planted) are in production at present and most
plantations (200,000 acres or 53% of total) are estimated to become overaged
by 1984. Poor planting material and low management standards are responsible
for the low yields achieved ranging from an average of 150 to 500 lb/acre
compared with over 1,000 lb/acre on the foreign-owned concessions. This
is evident from the fact that in 1976, although Liberian-owned farms accounted
for 72% of the total rubber acreage, they produced only 31% of total output
estimated at 83,000 tons.
23.       According to the 1971 agricultural census there were approximately
8,800 Liberian-owned rubber farms. A majority (58%) had farm size of less
than 25 acres, averaging about 7 acres per farm. There are a large number
of farms under absentee owners which are operated by hired managers, over-
seers or headmen depending upon the size and financial capacity of the farms.
Except where experienced managers are employed, the farm management standards
are poor. The Government's support services for Liberian-owned rubber farms
have been confined to the Rubber Advisory Service (RAS) consisting of 8
expatriate advisors and 9 Liberian counterparts. To date, however, the impact
of RAS has been limited although a start has been made with a farm survey,
establishment of a nursery and cooperative replanting program.
24.       There are five companies which purchase rubber from Liberian
farmers, for processing and exporting mainly in the form of block rubber.
All are foreign-owned except for the Liberian Rubber Processing Company
(LRPC) which is owned by the Government. Firestone, buying 70% of Liberian-
owned farm production, is the largest and effectively sets producer prices.
On average farmers receive about 58% of f.o.b. Monrovia price.  The Govern-
ment established LRPC in 1976 to process and mar'ket Liberian farmers' rubber
and ultimately to compete effectively with Firestone and other concessionaires.
LRPC is currently processing less than 5% of the Liberian rubber production
and it is too early to assess its future prospects.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
25.       The proposed project was identified by the Government and prepared
by consultants, Agrar-und-Hydrotechnik (Germany), financed under the Liberia
Agricultural Development and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 306-LBR).
The Government requested Bank Group assistance in financing the proposed
project, which was appraised in June, 1977. A report entitled "Liberia:
Rubber Development Project", No. 1771-LBR dated March 6, 1978, is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations took place
in Washington on February 15-17, 1978. The Liberian negotiating team was led
by Mrs. Johnson-Sirleaf, Deputy Minister of Finance.
Project Objectives
26.       The principal objectives of the project are to:
(a) increase Liberia's income and export earnings from rubber
through an intensive program of replanting about 40,000
acres old rubber and rehabilitating about 23,500 acres
mature untapped rubber as a first phase of a long-term
effort to increase and sustain production from Liberian-
owned rubber farms;
(b) improve productivity and the incomes of about 6,300 small
and medium size rubber farms (70% of total Liberian hold-
ings) through provision of credit for improved planting
material and other inputs; better extension services;
and assistance for on-farm processing and marketing; and
(c) strengthen the institutional capability of the Government
to plan and implement further development of Liberian-
owned rubber industry through establishment of a Rubber
Development Unit (RDU), staff training, and provision of
technical assistance.
Project Area
27.       The project area consists of some 288,000 acres of rubber, account-
ing for 75% of total area of Liberian-owned rubber farms, in Montserrado,
Bong, Nimba and Grand Bassa Counties, and Marshall and Bomi Territories. A
survey of rubber farmers of less than 100 acres in the project area showed
that the majority (65%) were less than 20 acres in size. The ecological
conditions in the project area are suitable for rubber production and the
existing physical infrastructure is adequate for the delivery of farm inputs
and marketing of rubber production.
Project Content
28.       Replanting and Rehabilitation - Over the 4-1/2 year development
period FY79-83 the project would replant about 40,000 acres of old rubber



- 10 -
with high-yielding varieties and rehabilitate about 23,500 acres of mature
untapped rubber. To achieve these targets, the project would provide: (a)
farm inputs (e.g. planting materials, fertilizers, chemicals, farm equipment
and implements, labor, and land-clearing services where required) on the basis
of long- and short-term credit; (b) extension services which include technical
advice on planting, maintenance, rehabilitation and tapping operations; (c)
training of farmers, farm operators and tappers; and (d) assistance in land
registration, on-farm processing and marketing for smallholder rubber farms.
29.       Institutional Support - The project would include:  (a) establish-
ment of a Rubber Development Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture as a
permanent rubber extension service by providing expatriate and local staff,
buildings, vehicles and equipment; (b) training of Liberian staff at all
levels to service the entire Liberian-owned rubber sector; and (c) estab-
lishment of nurseries.
30.       Farm Planning Service - The project would operate on a fee basis
a farm planning service to assist large farmers who cultivate more than 150
acres in preparing proposals for commercial bank financing.
31.       Technical Assistance - The project would include the employment
of consultant services for: (a) a rubber pricing policy study (24 man-months)
including examination of the feasibility of a rubber development fund financed
by a cess system; (b) a feasibility study of a second stage project including
the feasibility of expanding Liberian-owned rubber processing capacity (9
man-months); (c) formulation and monitoring of effective smallholder rubber
marketing programs (4 man-months); (d) training RDU instructors and monitoring
RDU training programs (6 man-months); and (e) assistance to ACDB in formulat-
ing operating procedures and training staff (48 man-months). The average cost
of consultants is estimated at US$5,600 per man-month.
Project Cost and Financing
32.       Total project cost is estimated at US$29.6 million, which includes
US$0.25 million of identifiable taxes but excludes all other taxes and import
duties. Costs include physical contingency of 5% and price contingencies
ranging from 7% to 9% per annum. The foreign cost component is estimated at
US$13.8 million or 46% of total project cost.
33.       The proposed Bank loan of US$7 million and IDA credit of US$6
million would cover 44 percent of total project cost and would be used to
finance US$12.4 million of foreign expenditures and US$0.6 million of local
expenditures. The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) would co-finance
the project on a parallel basis with a loan equivalent to US$7.0 million which
would be used to cover local expenditures of the replanting and rehabilitation
credit component of the project. The United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas
Development (ODM) would provide a technical assistance grant equivalent to
US$1.4 million, which would be in the form of eight British rubber experts
for the RDU. The CDC and ODM contributions, which have been agreed in prin-
ciple, remain subject to confirmation by their authorities. The remaining
US$8.2 million in local cost would be met by the Government (US$7.4 million)



- 11 -
and project farmers (US$0.8 million). Together the external donors would
finance 72 percent of total project cost. The CDC loan would be repayable
over 20 years including a grace period of 5 years at an interest rate of 7.5
percent.
Project Implementation
34.       The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture
through its Rubber Development Unit established as a semi-autonomous entity
with its own management and budgetary procedures. RDU would be responsible to
an inter-ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC) which determines project
policy and exercises budgetary control. RDU headquarters would be located in
Totota, about 80 miles north of Monrovia in the heart of Liberia's rubber
belt. RDU would absorb the functions of the present Rubber Advisory Service
and would have three divisions: Finance and Administration, Technical and
Operations. RDU would be responsible for implementing all project activities
including extension service, training, input supply, and marketing for small-
holder rubber farms. The project would be staffed by qualified local staff
whenever possible, but because of shortage of experienced Liberians, certain
key positions may have to be filled by expatriates. The post of Project
Manager, Financial Controller, Chief Technical Officer and Chief Operations
Officer would be filled by persons having qualification and experience satis-
factory to Bank/IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(c)).
35.       In order to speed up implementation of the project, the Government
has embarked on project start-up activities: PSC and RDU have been established
with terms of reference satisfactory to Bank/IDA; a Liberian Project Manager
has been appointed and is presently planning and directing all pre-project
activities; recruitment of local staff and staff training programs are underway
as well as a survey of potential project participants. A condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan/credit would be that appointments have been made
in accordance with paragraph 34 above to the positions of Financial Controller,
Chief Technical Officer and Chief Operations Officer (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01 (f)).
Training
36.       Training would be an important aspect of the project and would
encompass all levels and disciplines of modern rubber production. The follow-
ing types of training are envisaged under the project: (a) training of about
130 field extension staff of RDU; (b) training of about 660 budders and 3,000
tappers; and (c) training of about 6,300 project farmers. In addition, the
project would provide on-the-job and overseas training of senior Liberian
staff of RDU with the objective of replacing most expatriate staff by Project
Year 4.
Project Credit Operations
37.       The project would provide credit in cash and kind of two types:
(a) Rehabilitation Credit would cover initial expenditure (amount-
ing to US$40 per acre) for materials and labor required to



- 12 -
open mature but untapped rubber. Once the trees start yield-
ing, the farmers would furnish at their own expense labor and
material for tapping over the 5-year period (amounting to
US$85/acre per year). Rehabilitation loans would be repay-
able over 4 years including one year of grace with interest
at 10% per annum.
(b) Replanting Credit would supply all significant material
inputs and 75% of estimated labor costs (amounting to about
US$460 per acre) required to replant an approved area and
bring it into production. Remaining labor costs and minor
material needs (amounting to about US$50 or 10% of total
costs) would be provided by farmers. Replanting credit
would be repayable with interest at 10% per annum in 20
years including an 8-year grace period during which interest
would be capitalized.
38.       Screening and approval of individual credit applications would be
the responsibility of RDU extension staff who would draw up a farm plan on
the basis of field appraisal. The newly established Agricultural and Coop-
erative Development Bank (ACDB) would be responsible for credit recovery
through deductions made by the rubber processing companies from rubber sold
by project farmers for which ACDB would receive a 2% commission. The Govern-
ment, ACDB and RDU would enter into a Revolving Credit Fund Agreement under
which ACDB and RDU would administer the project credit. A condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan/credit would be that the Revolving Credit Fund
Agreement satisfactory to Bank/IDA has been executed (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01 (d)).  As noted in paragraph 21 above, the Government
has consulted closely with the Bank/IDA regarding the establishment of the
ACDB and, as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan/credit, ACDB
would establish its lending and borrowing policies and operational procedures
including accounting systems and financial controls satisfactory to Bank/IDA
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.03 and 6.01 (e)).
39.       Each year, in advance of the next replanting year, RDU will carry
out a farm survey in selected areas in order to identify prospective parti-
cipants in the replanting/rehabilitation program. The survey will collect
all the essential data on farm characteristics and as much information as
possible on farmers and farm family income. On the basis of this informa-
tion and RDU's annual work program and budget, it was agreed that RDU would
apply the following guidelines for selection of project participants and
issuance of the project credit to ensure that project beneficiaries include
as many small farmers as possible (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sec-
tion 4.02 (d)): (a) in selecting participants, priority would be given in
the order of: small farms up to 10 acres; medium farms of 10-30 acres; and
large farms of 30-150 acres - within each category, farms operated by resi-
dent owners being given preference over other types of farms: (b) at least
30% of the total amount of the project credit would be earmarked for small
farms of less than 10 acres: (c) the project credit would be subject to a
maximum of 30 acres per farmer and would be limited to persons who own not
more than 150 acres of rubber lands. It was further agreed that each year
RDU would review with the Bank/IDA the application of the above guidelines
to ensure that the objective is achieved.



- 13 -
40.       Main conditions of the project credit would be that the recipients
undergo training offered by RDU; accept RDU advice on field establishment,
tapping and processing techniques; sell all rubber harvested from the reha-
bilitated/replanted area to a single processing plant chosen by the applicant
and made known to RDU; and provide land title as collateral. RDU in coopera-
tion with the Ministry of Lands and Mines would assist farmers obtain freehold
title.
41.       Because of low yield expectations under traditional method of cul-
tivation and the long gestation period (8 years), in the past small farmers
have been reluctant to replant rubber. As a result most smallholder rubber
farms in the project area are semi-abandoned and the majority of smallholders
grow rice and cassava for subsistence and work part-time on large rubber
concessions for cash. Under the project the cash flow for a 3-acre replant-
ing farm shows that, even at full production, the return per manday would be
unattractive compared with that expected from alternative employment, such
as working as estate laborers. In order to improve the cash flow and hence
encourage smallholder participation, financial assistance in the form of a
grant would be required. Accordingly, in the case of smallholder farms cul-
tivating less than 6 acres of rubber the project would provide a cash grant,
instead of credit, equivalent to 80% of the imputed cost of smallholders'
family labor (amounting to US$95 per acre). This would reduce the debt
liability of smallholders to a level that would allow sufficient return per
manday for rubber farm work. The total cost of providing smallholder grants
is estimated at US$1 million.
Processing, Pricing and Marketing
42.       The project output will reach 12,000 tons by 1990 and 26,000 tons
by 1998. By 1990, however, none of the existing processing companies would
have excess capacity and new facilities will have to be built to process
project output. The feasibility of establishing new Liberia-owned processing
facilities would be examined as a part of the study on the second phase
project which would be financed under the project.
43.       As stated in paragraph 24 above, at present foreign rubber conces-
sions effectively set producer prices in Liberia. Prices paid to Liberian
farmers are based on Singapore f.o.b. prices for RSS1 less deductions for
processing and other costs. While there is no evidence that the current price
(US$22 cents per lb) constitutes a constraint to increasing production from
Liberian farms, the level of producer price is important since farmers'
response to price fluctuations has been highly elastic. Furthermore, no
previous attempt has been made to verify whether processing and other deduc-
tions the concessions make to arrive at a producer price reflect actual and
reasonable costs. In order to provide the basis for formulating a pricing
policy which would ensure that Liberian farmers receive fair and reasonable
prices, the project would include a study of rubber pricing policy to examine
the current pricing formula, processing and marketing costs of all rubber
processors and production costs at the farm level. The Government has agreed
that it would complete and submit to the Bank/IDA within two years of loan/
credit signing a rubber pricing policy study executed under terms of reference
and by consultants acceptable to Bank/IDA. The Government has further agreed
that it would establish, in consultation with the rubber processors, an



- 14 -
equitable producer pricing policy and its implementation procedures satisfac-
tory to Bank/IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
44.       The project would assist smallholders by improving on-farm processing
and reducing transportation costs. RDU would work closely with processing
factories in scheduling farmers' deliveries and collections. The project would
try several methods of marketing (e.g. use of group marketing organizations,
cooperatives and private contractors) to determine the most cost effective and
practically feasible method of collecting and transporting smallholder rubber.
Procurement
45.       Procurement contracts for fertilizers, chemicals, vehicles, equip-
ment and tools valued at more than US$50,000 would be through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Such contracts
are estimated to total US$3.1 million. Domestically manufactured goods
would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable duty, whichever is
lower, when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers.
Contracts for less than US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to Bank/IDA. The aggregate total of such contracts would be limited to
US$500,000. Civil works, estimated to cost US$3.0 million, comprising
mainly offices, staff housing, training centers and warehouses, are widely
scattered and construction is phased over 4-1/2 years; such works would not
attract international contractors and it is proposed that these be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to Bank/IDA. The employment of consultants and internationally
recruited staff to be financed by the Bank/IDA would be in accordance with
normal Bank/IDA's procedures.
Disbursement
46.       The Bank loan of US$7.0 million and the IDA credit of US$6.0 million
would be disbursed over 4-1/2 years FY1979-83 against:
(a) 100% of the foreign cost of directly imported vehicles,
equipment, machinery for felling old rubber trees, spares,
fertilizers, agrocides and all other on-farm/nursery materials
required for the replanting and rehabilitation program, or 80%
of local cost if procured locally, totalling US$5.6 million;
(b) 80% of the cost of buildings and furnishing, totalling US$2.3
million;
(c) 100% of the costs of internationally recruited staff (other
than staff financed by ODM), including their salaries,
allowances and recruitment costs, and of consulting ser-
vices, feasibility studies, totalling US$1.0 million;
(d) 85% of the total costs of training, totalling US$1.4 million;
(e) An unallocated amount of US$2.7 million.



- 15 -
Benefits and Justification
47.       Primary benefits of the project would be increased production and
exports of rubber. Rubber production from the project is estimated at 16,500
tons in 1991, increasing steadily to 26,000 tons (over 100% of present output
from Liberian-owned farms) at a peak production in 1998. This level of pro-
duction could be sustained for the following 10 to 15 years without major
replacements. From 1998 the project would generate annual net foreign exchange
earnings of US$18.5 million, helping to reduce Liberia's heavy reliance on
income from iron-ore. The project would bring about a substantial increase
in income of about 6,300 small and medium-size rubber farms, and, in addition,
would provide employment and increased incomes for about 3,000 tappers and 600
budders. The principal beneficiaries of the project would be smallholders
cultivating less than 10 acres of rubber with family labor. By strengthening
the economic viability of small-scale rubber farming through intensified farm
support services, the project would encourage small farmers to work full-time
on their own rubber farms instead of seeking alternative wage employment in
large rubber estates and concessions. The illustrative cash flow of a 3-acre
rubber replanting farm shows that, at full development, the return per man-day
would be US$7.0 (constant terms). This compares favorably with the market
wage of US$1.50 per man-day or about US$3.0 per man-day received by workers
on concessions. The project through establishment of a permanent rubber ex-
tension service staffed with well-trained personnel would enable Liberians to
take greater initiatives in further expanding Liberian-owned rubber industry
for the benefit of their own economy. The organizational and manpower capa-
bility developed under the project should enable Liberia to carry out further
replanting/rehabilitation programs on a continuous basis.   The proposed pric-
ing study would provide a basis for reviewing the present cost/price structure
of the rubber industry and for establishing an appropriate producer pricing
policy.
48.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 13% which
compares favorably with the return expected from other Bank-financed rubber
projects. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the rate of return would still
be over 10% with increases in costs up to 20% or with decreases in benefits up
to 15%. The financial rate of return to the Government is estimated at 12%.
49.       In order to bring all project plantings to full maturity, a further
investment of US$18.7 million would be required in the period 1983-89. The
Government recognizes the importance of this investment and is considering
establishment of a Rubber Development Fund financed from an additional tax on
rubber exports. The consultants who would undertake the pricing policy study
(see para 43 above) would also examine the feasibility of such a fund.
Risks
50.       This project has no unusual technical risks.  Shortage of profes-
sional staff, skilled and unskilled labor is a possible risk to project
implementation but this would be overcome by an intensive training program
for staff at all levels, tappers, smallholders, headmen and overseers; pro-
vision of regular jobs at satisfactory wages; and finally through use of
mechanical tree-felling where required.



- 16 -
51.       Other risks include susceptibility to wind damage, incidence of
dry trees, destruction of bark reserve caused by poor tapping and disease.
The project would try to minimize the risks through intensified extension
work and farmer training to ensure that project participants follow proper
agronomic practices.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Liberia and the
Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Liberia
and the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
53.       In addition to the features of the Loan and Development Credit
Agreements which are referred to in the text and listed in Annex III, addi-
tional conditions of effectiveness include: (i) signing of a loan agreement
between the Republic of Liberia and CDC, (ii) conclusion of the technical
assistance arrangement between the Republic of Liberia and ODM, (iii) estab-
lishment of ACDB's lending and borrowing policies, (iv) execution of the
Revolving Credit Fund Agreement, satisfactory to Bank/IDA, among the Government,
RDU and ACDB, and (v) the appointments to the positions of Financial Controller,
Chief Technical Officer and Chief Operations Officer.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association respectively.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and the proposed development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
March 15, 1978



ANNEX I
LIBERIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                  Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU K12)                  ------------------------------------------------
---------------                                    LlIBERIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       111,4                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        6.2                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE            GHANA           IVORY COAST    JAMAICA**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      170.0*    280.0*              -            43Q *       350.*        670.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)              1.0        1.3        1.6/a                8.6         5.4          1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          9.0       12.0       14.0/a              36.0         16.0       170.0
PER SQ. AfT. AGRICULTURAL LAND       163.0       217.0      258.0Wa              64.0         32.0       384.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           44.4       42.8       43.6                49.8         46.1        38.5
CRUDE DEATH  ..TE (/THOU,AV)           27.9       23.5       20.7                24.4         23.3         8.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)            ..      137.3      159.0/b             156.0           * .       32.2
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         36.5       41.0       43.5                41.5         41.0        67.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..        2.6        2.7                 3.2          3.1         2.7
POPLJLTIoN GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL.                                  3.3        3.3**      3. 3***             2.6          3.4*        1.4/a
URBAN                                    ..         ..        8.6/c               4.5          6.7/a       6.2
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)              .        26.2       27.6/b               28.4        28.0        37.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         37.2 a    40.7        41.6                46.9         42.5        45.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                         5B.8 a    56.0        55.0                49.5        54.8         50,4
65 YEARS AND OVER                       4.07a      3.3        3.4                 3.6          2.7         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.7la      0.8        0.8                  1.0         0.8          1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.07a,b   1.0/a       1.1/d                1.4         0.9/b        1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)              .         .           .-               10.9           *         49.8
USERS (S OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         ..          .                 2.0           .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            410.0      580.0      650.0_&            3300.0       2600.0       eoo.o/b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           81.0       72.0          .                54.0/a       82.0        33.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              ..       20.0/b        *-                 6.2          ..        17.5/b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                .        61.7 /C                           * .                     *
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..       72,67 TC         .
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..        5.3         . .                  ..7.
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 .       100.97       . ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                ..        ..          ..                   .          .
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..         ..          ..                   ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              12000.0/c 11590.0   11000.0               12950.0/b  15320.0        2630.0
POPULATION PER NUR,ING PERSON          571o.0TW   4590.0    2640.0               1070.07U   2830.0/C   1710.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             730.0       580.0         *               760.0       1150.0-      240.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (S OF REQUIREMENTS)           66.0       84.0       87.0                96.0        108.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                35.0       36.0       39.0/e              46.0        60.0         56.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..        0.0 /d                        10.0/c      18.0/d       29.0/C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              29.01a    18.2        21.0                                          4.2
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         31.0       53.0       59.0/f              61.0        76.0        106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        2.0        9.0       11.0ff              11.0        11.0         30.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               12.0       12.0       12.0                15.0        13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                       12.0        8.4        6.2/f              23.0         7.o         5.0
ADULT LITEPACY RATE (%)                   9.0/a    15.0           ,.               25.0        20.0         82.o
HOUSING
PERSONS PL  ROOM (URBAN)                  1.7/d       ..         ..
OCCUPIED DUELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                          *          *          *                   . .         . .       7s.0/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        27.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                       ..         ..         ..                  ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           77.0      132.0      156.0                7.0             .      376.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             1.0       11.0        6.0                 S.0        10.0         39.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            101.0      330.0      509.0               338.0        95.o       825.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  .         0.1          ..                0.4         0.2          4.6
--------------__--___    ----------------------------------------------_      ------__--------------     _-- ______---
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise cored, dart for 1960 refer to any year bet eese 1959 and 1961, fer 1970 bet-eec 1968 aed 1970, and for Most Roceet E-tioate betwoon
1972 od 1975.
o    GIIP per capita data are based or the World Bark Atlas  -ethedoiogy (1974-76 basis).
*0   jamaica has bsree  slected as or objective couctry sin.e  its GNP per capita ie berween two red three tines that of Liberia it 1970. its econmic
trocturr  depeods heavily or the siring sector; both countries are encesr-ging foreign iccecRiete, and Liberia's employpmeet p- p  icy objctit- Ie
to reach the current level of Ja...i ..'. manpower training.
000  Due to immoigratio- population growth rvte Is higher than rate of natural incr.ase.
LIBERIA           1960    /a  1962;    /b  Ratio of popsiatios under 15 erd 65 and ever to total labor forte;    /c  1964,    id  1956, city of
Menrovia only.
1970    / R Ritci  of population under 15 and 65 snd cosr to tntal labor forcts             Lb  Unemploed and partially employed;
/I  Population, 1975 Bank Ecessic Report.  Higher iccome calculated as residual; inclode_ anpattiat-e;    Id  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTILATE:    /a  1976;    /b  1971;    /c  1970-71;    /d  Ratic of populaticc cnder 15 snd 65 and over to  ctotl labor force;
In  1969-72 average;    /f  1972;    /R  1975 ILO projaction.
ChANA             1970    La  Excluding unemployed;    /b  Registered, nrc a11 ptacticlng in the country;    /e  1966-68.
V_ORY COASf      1970    /a  1965-70;    /b  Ratio of population  -d-r 15 amd 65 and over to total  abor force;    /c    - -verseG,s  pertoncel  -1,v;
inc-ldiog 'idwives;    /d  1964-6i.
3SolO' 1C         1970    ia  Doe to tmira-tion population frotuh rats it lower th-an rte natss1 increna-                  /'  Oats hosed Pn offjicial deffiitioc
ehich i.ccides these willing to werk but net activEly seeking empilym.ent;    /c  1964--6b               id  In-ide cciv
R9. December 7, 1977
DIEFINITTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATGOS
T                                                                                           Penulation paer ursEns persoc- Population dicided by number of practicing
Total - Total surface area canpr iniOg lard area asd inilnd watara                            male and fanale gradeats nurfss, 'traied" or "certified" curses, and
AgriE   -"Most recent estismate of agrfultoral area used tsperrily or p-ema-                  auxiliary Yprsenne aich training or enperfence
nenclo for crops . postures, market S kitchan gardens or to tie fallt.                   P.e.lsti-A per hespits1 bed - Population divided by  -nuber of hoapisal beds
anaiaNic in public aed private genersi edA apeulali.ed hospital and
iNP  per capita (LSD) - GNP per toapits earirate  at currers market prices,                    rehsbilitnif  -centerth; secludes nursing bores aed estabith-ieets for
caicciated by sme         . cocoersi.r method as Werld Bank Atlaa (1973-75 b..is);          c-todia1 and presentive -re.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Percita ntpfet ofaor piesIte eOre t-iresents) - Ctpued fran energy
ic                                                              .r~~~~~~~~~~~~~Auoleo   e  feed supple  sailahlie t...n. ry Per- ca pita. pr dsy
rEPolstion and viral statistic:                                                                aslablhe se.pplins comprise  dansctic production., lpoe-s less eeport,   sod
Pofsiation (mEd-year milion) -AS of July first:  {E  eno  aaIlable, average                   changes in ctock; ret supplies exclads antiaI feed, seeds, qantties used
o f too enA-year entiraten; 1i60, 1970 and 1975 dana.                                       in icd pe-c-saing ad l anes in distribotton; rqeqiveitY  an he- esimatd
d.. i ~~~~~~~~,~~~tp- ~~~by FAR ha..nd enpyice s  reds for  -cna Ic ti-                                                y  nhath ca-sid-
Pupulaion des  ity - per sovare km - Mid-year pepul-aian per square kileetee                 -eing ennlrnaeaeetca  temparature, body weights, age and sea distributions of
(100 heetares) of total ars.                                                                pepultien, sd a11wing 107l for waste at hourehald lei.
oPeelasien density -oear  square km of sent. land - Canputed a- sabve far                    Pee earira suesir cf prserin farm  rer day) - Proeine  cantent of per tapis
agriceltural laud only.                                                                    senetspply of feed per day; net supply of fend is define d as shave; require-
ments for .11 canntries e-tablished by Ui/DA Econnie Resea.rch Services
Rital  statistics                                                                              provide fPr a mitanip   a11is -anse of 60 grams of total petsein psr day, and
irde_ithrt  earP      hus_ d  avrg-   sa  lIve birtho per theaad ef                         20 gras  of aei.lss  end poise prete, nOf which 10 gram  shsald beanma
mid-year population;  eryea;r arttht icanvrAgi 7ien dirg i  1960 and   90                    prten;  h. f nandsrda   *Ire ith- these of 75 gran  of total proain
and fito-year aversoe ending tn 1975 for mas rcent stiasts.                                 *nd 23 grane of snissal protein as an  verage for the wend, propoesd by FAO
Cetde death race eer theusa.d. ad.rar    - Asnual dearhs par theu-ad of mid-year              in the Third Werld FPed Surey.
popolatie_; tee-year aritletnic average ending in 1960 end 1970 and five-                  Per eaeisa eretein sapel  fran aninal and eulae-Prtein supply og feod
year average ending in 1975 fee mess recent si sts.                                          derived frmn ania Ir and poises in grmsd  per day.
Infant -ortality rate (/thos) - Annual deaths of infants under .en  year of age              Death rats (/thou) sges 1-4 - Anreel deaths p-r tho.s.sd in age geeup 1-4
per theusard live births.,                                                                  years, to children in this age greop; suggested as en indicator of
Life sexeutanty at birth (yea) - Av-r-ge nupb-r of years of life raising at                      Itition
birth; usually fire-year  averages ending iE  1960, 1970 aed 1975 fer davalep-
Org teentriss.                                                                           iEdcatips
Grosa repreductin rate -Average nunber of live daughters               will bear             Adlated eneolloeat retie - prinary a-heel - Eirellment of .11 ages as pet-
Er her  -ermel reprdodctivs period if she enperienees preses age-psecific                   pernaga of primary seheal-ege pepulatian; ineledes childran aged 6-li years
ternility rates; wwlly fice-year averagesi ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                     hut adjusted fer differe-t lengths ef prim-ry education; for -antries etth
for developing cquntri-s                                                                     univeral aducation, enreltent may enceed 1007, siege ane popils are below
'ps Latton grovtb rats () -  otal - Coapound annual grosth rat-m  of nid-yssr                  or shove  the official stboll age.
population fee 1910-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75                                                Ad1o-tsd earoliant ratio - aecondary *cboel - Ceepoted as above; eecandsr
Population grdiffh rate (ii urban - Cqnputed lir.e gtsash rate of tatal                        education requirse  as isaa  Peer years of appraved primary imatruction;
populacion; different definitions ef urban areas may affect Cansprability of                 provide- general, o-oational or smacher training instructiens far pupils
data aneng ceantriemI                                                                        of 12 us 17 years of age; crreep ..dence courses are generally sncioded.
Urean eoeulation (2 ci natal) - Ratio of erban co renal ppoplatian; difscent                 Yeses ef sebeoling Provided  itrist and seceed leveisi - Toa1 years ot
definitions of urban areas may affect tanparability of data among  _asntria -chosoling; at sec. rdary level, vosniorl instructien may be partially or
canpietaly enldd.
ARe structure (Pereenti - Children (0-14 yearn), aerking-age (15-64 years),                 tonanianal enrelLaent f2 of seteedary) - V-cational Institotians include
cod retired  (65 years and aver) as percentages ef aid-year populatioe                       technical, industrial or ether pregrans  !hith operara tedependerlc or as
Age deeeedecy rat ia - Ratio of pepelatian under i  and 65 and aver te these                  departmente of secondary ir-ticutina.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                       dult iteraov rate (7) - Li terae adults (able to read and write/as per-
Econonic dee-ndencv ratio - R-tie ef popelatian under 15 and 65 and over to                    tentags of total adelt ppoplatior aged 17 y-ars and cotr.
the labhr farce in age greop of 15-64 years
Fanily elaenine -sacepstareoirs   nultive  theu) - Cumulative nobner of accepsers            Bqusi
of birth-eeesro1 devices ceder as pices of cattanal fonily pl-nning pregran                Persons per r-an (urban) - Averags nunber cf pereans per r-oa  In otc pi.d
slots isoeptian.                                                                             conventaonal dwellings is orbs n areas; deeliRniO  excdludelnoc-e n u e-t
Peeiiy elannin  -users 1(% of married eaPneni - Perencages of married caner of                 strutcturns ard  unoccupied parts.                                  r - d -
thud -bearing ae (15-44 years) cho see birth-control devices to all earnied                Ouuse perentigea iof     n 5re ite  aste Litj - OcupiPed canoentlees  dWeslioga
enit  an  age greep.                                                                      In urbansdrrlaese-or5sd  e   usieppdetrfclte
as percectegs  f all  thcupIe dwling.    -.d       P   ~ f_ii
onlset                                                                                  Aces tr latrcst   O  .17 ef all.d dline)-Cavrira   clinsct
Total lahor forte itoyand) - Econanictlly active p rsons, includtng aemed                      electricity in litEr5 qoarters 55 percent  toftotal d_sIf Iwelie ubna
feress and unenployed kut exclading beuscaivee, studerre, sec.; deiiniriats                                                                                          anrad  areas -
in osriese countries are not canparable                                                    Fur-l dwellinRe   -nneed t-  e1etriciyt i) - anP-ted as abovt for rura
Labor farce is *griculture  (2) - Agricultural labor fares (in f-rning, fsr.ssre,              dwelliage only.
hooting and fishing) as parcentage of total l-b-r forse.
Un nelayed it of labor ferns) - Lneployed are usually defined as pe-s-ns wha                 Con anetion
ore able and willieg to take a job, out of a job on a gioen day, renaied out               Oadie rec  ivers (eer thee poP) - A11 types of receivers for radio broadcast
of a job, and seeking wrk for a  pso-ified  imian pariod rot enceeding one                   to general publit per thousand of popolati_n;  ecludeso tulessd r Iceloers
week; may -ot he tanparable b-tween countries doe to different deflniiti_n                   iscountrie  and ir years wher registration if radio sets. 5  ir effc
of u-espYoted and sanrce of data, eg., eoploymept offic- sta .iatic-, sample                 dart  far recent years may not be ceeparable since nest countries abolished
surveys, canpolsery unemployment ins uranu                                                   Piceriing
P"sseneer tars ifea  then PeP) -~P a-negar tan  oprise meter cars  e  n
mcooe distribution - Pereantage of private meanse (boch in sash and kind)                       less  share -re pver   s; th npo d)L .ah.ularena,i he rseso ad cilitary
ereeived by riehe-t 52, riehe-t 20%, poorest 207, and posrest 40%  f hi ..s-                   ehicles.
holds.                                                                                     Elsesrinitn  (kteb/r per rep) - Anneal oneweptian of ind-rIril, cosoertia'
pabli. and priests e1-trisity inb hilerett hsure Psr  cpita, generally
Diserihutiuc Of land esnrahip - Pecn-tagn   Of land awsd by wealthiest lOt.                     base.danpr deian data  Iibe  alerePr essi   rishtalw
and porrest 107. of land quner-.                                                               nh for imports and exparts of electricity-
jj..I th  -d N _.-iti-  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     seeein  ls/ree  ie)-Per" p "Pta a---s 1 caeptian  in kilogram
Hesi tb and Nutritee                     desOtimatd fran domtsg  pre ductier plus ret imports of newsprint
Pepolasier per phqsidian - Population divided by number of practieing
physicIans qualified fran a medical srbool at seiversity lev-l.



A
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - LIBERIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant 1971 prices)
US$ Mln.      _                           1967 -70           1970 -74            1975
GNP at Market Prices            662.8        100.0                          7.0                6.3             -4.3
Gross Domestic Investment       192.0         29.0                          0.2               2.5              27.9
Gross National Saving            97.0         14.6                         21.5              17.2             -52.4
Current Account Balance         -95.0         14.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           403.7         60.9                          9.7               2.2             -30.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           354.9         53.5                          3.6              -2.6               3.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                    Labor Force-/                   V. A. Per Worker
UJS$ Mln.      %                  Mln.        %                     US          -- r
Agriculture                     196.6       25.0                0,470      79.0                   418.3         31.6
Industry 2!                     349.1       44.3                0.018       3.0                19,394.4    1,465.2
Services                        241.7       30.7                0.023       4.9                 3,098.7       234.1
Unallocated                                                     0.078      13.1
Total/Average           787.4      100.0                0.595      100.0                 1,323.4       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
T          Mln.)    _     % of G                 ( u7S  Mln.)           of GDP
197_          197      - 196 -71975                           1975         1970_74F
Current Receipts                      *-             *-           *-                   125.3        15.)          17.4
Current Expenditure                                                                     78.1         9.9          12.1
Current Surplus                       ..             ..           ..                              *6.sr
Capital Expenditures                 *-              *-           *-                    29.5         3.7           2.9
External Assistance (net)             .              ..           .-                    12.5         1.6           1.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                                  1972        -1973         1974        1975
T  llion $   outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money
Bank credit to Public Sector                             17.5          9.1          4.8         4.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                            47.4         54.2         71.8         76.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP
General Price Index (1963 = 100) 31                    131.0         156.0       187.0        212.5
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                                      3.9          19.5        19.5         13.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                             ..          -48.0       -47.5        -16.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                            ..           14.3        32.5          7.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedi' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2! over 80% is accounted for by iron ore
31 Consumer Price Index (Sept.Nov.1964 = 100)    .. not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - LIBERIA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE ign3-75)
1974        1975      1976
US $ Mln    %
(Millions US 5)
Exports of Goods, NFS         407.2      403.7    467.0                     Iron Ore                        250.8   62.3
Imports of Goods, NFS       -3[6.1      -354.9   -423.2                     Rubber                           51.2   13.7
Resource Gap (deficit = -)   91.1          48.8     43.8                    Diamonds                         32.5    8.7
Logs and Lumnber                15.7    4.2
Interest Payments (net)    -  4.3       -  4.9   -  5.0                     Coffee                            4.5    1.2
Workers' Remittances         - 22.0      - 24.5   - 25.0                    Cocoa                             3.5    0.9
Other Factor Payments (net)-120.0       -145.0   -140.0
Net Transfers                  24.8        30.6      32.9              All other commodities                 14.4    4.O
Balance on Current Account - 30.4        - 95.0   - 93.3                     Total                          372.8  100,0
Direct Foreign Investment    45.0          20.4     20.0             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MIT Borrowing            - 12.3         1.7      27.0
Disbursements                5.1        18.0     45.0                                                          US $ Mln
Amortization              - 17.4     - 16.3   - 18.0
Subtotal                    32.7       22.1      47.0               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               170.0
Capital Grants                 ..            ,                         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)          -  1.0      -  0.5                        Total outstanding & Disbursed               170.0
Other items n.e.i              ..           ..
Increase in Reserves (+)   -  1.2       - 73.4   - 46.3              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19752/
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves   (end year)       .                                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               5.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed              5.4
Imports                      56.4        48.3
of which:  Petroleum       53.2        44.4
Exports                        -           -
of which:  Petroleum                     -         -/DA LENDING,  (December 31, 1976) (Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                         -
Outstanding & Disbursed               28.8          6.5
Throuqh  -  1971                Since  -  1971                   Undisbursed                            37.6         10.5
US   1.00 = 1.00                US $ 1.00 = 1.00                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                       17.0
1.00= US                        1.00 = US $
1/ Preliminary estimate
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
March 13, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                      Amount (US$ million)
Number   Year        Borrower            Purpose         Bank    IDA - Undisbursed
Seven Loans and one Credit fully disbursed               23.9    2.6
305    1972      Republic of Lib.    Education                 7.2        1.8
306    1972     Republic of Lib.    Agriculture                1.2        0.1
907    1973     Republic of Lib.    Roads               3.0               0.3
1055    1974     Liberian Bank for   Development
Development and      Finance
Investment                            4.0                0.6
577    1975      Republic of Lib.    Agriculture               6.0        5.1
1150    1975     Liberia Electri-
city Corporation    Power             1.8                1.3
1156    1975      Republic of Lib.    Roads            27.5               17.2
1323    1976     Liberian Bank for   Development
Development and      Finance
Investment                            7.0                6.8
1266-T  1976     Republic of Lib.    Education          4.0                2.9
1417    1977     Republic of Lib.    Education          6.3                5.9
700    1977     Republic of Lib.    Agriculture         -      7.0        7.0
Total                                77.5   24.0        49.0
of which has been repaid            6.2      -
Total now outstanding                71.3   24.0
Amount sold          0.4
of which repaid   0.3               0.1
Total held by Bank and IDA           71.2   24.0
Total undisbursed                    35.0   14.0        49.0
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year              Obligor           Type of Business       Loan     Equity      Total
1966      Liberian Bank for       Development Finance               0.250       0.250
Development and        Company
Investment
1977      Liberian Bank for       Development                       0.306       0.306
Development and        Finance Company
Investment
Less Sold                                             0.001       0.001
Now Held                                              0.555       0.555



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 305-LBR        First Education Project:  US$7.2 Million Credit of
May 17, 1972; Effective Date: December 18, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
After initial delays in awarding civil works contracts, project
implementation has progressed on schedule, and most of the project facilities
will be in operation by the start of the school year in March 1978. The
education, manpower, and university planning components have been completed
satisfactorily. The project closing date has been extended to December 31,
1979 to allow for full disbursement of technical assistance funds. There
will be a small cost overrun that will be met by Government. Project man-
agement has been good.
Loan No. 1266T-LBR        Second Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Third
Window Loan of June 7, 1976; Effective Date:
July 8, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Most of the
project technical assistance personnel are in post and candidates for fellow-
ships have been identified. Equipment lists are being prepared and furniture
and vehicles are being purchased. Construction of 29 of the 100 community
school units is underway and 10 units should be ready for the start of the
school year in March 1978. There has been some delay in construction due
to shortages of materials and an unusually long rainy season but the project
is expected to be completed on schedule and within the appraisal estimates.
Implementation has benefited from good project management.
Loan No. 1417-LBR         Third Education Project:  US$6.3 Million Loan of
May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Division of Educational Facilities has been established and
has been doing design work on project and non-project schools. Designs
for the science and technology centers and Forestry Training Institute
have recently been completed, about six months behind schedule due to
site acquisition delays. It is expected that bid invitations for civil
works for these institutions and for the vocational training center can
be issued by April 1978. Institutional aspects of project implementation,
such as identification of fellowship candidates and plans for operation of
the vocational training center, are proceeding satisfactorily. Project
management has been good.



ANINEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Credit No. 306-LBR         Agricultural Development and Technical Assistance
Project: US$1.2 Million Credit of May 17, 1972;
Effective Date: December 8, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Implementation of the project suffered during the early stages
due to financial, administrative and managerial problems but the situation
gradually improved and all project objectives, except for the Pilot Rubber
Scheme, were achieved. The replanted acreage under the Pilot Rubber Scheme
is about 35 percent below appraisal estimates. The Scheme is being incor-
porated into the proposed Rubber Development Project. The rice research
program has made good progress and will be continued under the Bong County
Agricultural Development Project. A Staff Training Center at Suakoko has
been constructed.
Credit No. 577-LBR         Agricultural Development (Lofa) Project:  US$6 Mil-
lion Credit of August 1, 1975; Effective Date:
May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is in its second year of implementation (the Credit
became effective in May 1976, but key technical and managerial staff did
not reach full strength until September-October 1976) and progress to date
has been satisfactory. During the first cropping season, 75 ha of swamp
rice, 76 ha of upland rice, 110 ha of coffee and 35 ha of cocoa will be
developed. Project proposals for feeder road improvement, training of ex-
tension staff and farmers, input and credit supply, development of rural
banking services and schistosomiasis surveillance are being implemented
satisfactorily. Disbursement of IDA credit is behind schedule primarily
because of late start of the project but expected to accelerate as project
activities gather momentum. Government of Liberia has kept the project ade-
quately funded and has given the required administrative and political sup-
port. There has been a positive response from the project farmers.
Credit No. 700-LBR         Agricultural Development (Bong) Project:  US$7
million Credit of December 29. 1977; Effective Date:
March 15, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Singing of the credit was delayed by several months due to staff-
ing problems.  Most of key project positions have now been filled and the
project is ready for implementation. Project startup activities (e.g. con-
tracting for construction of office buildings and staff houses, staff re-
cruitment) have already begun with fund provided from the project prepara-
tion facility.
Loan No. 907-LBR           Second Highway Project:  US$3.0 Million Loan of June 13,
1973; Effective Date: December 28, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30. 1978



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Credit No. 395-LBR        US$2.6 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective
Date: December 28, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
The design and reconstruction of the Monrovia By-Pass has been com-
pleted with a small cost overrun. The feasibility studies for the improvement
of three roads in the vicinity of Monrovia are now completed; on two of the
roads which are important links in the main highway network, reconstruction
has been demonstrated as amply justified. Technical assistance in the Govern-
ment's four-year maintenance program is already showing benefits in improved
running surfaces on earth and gravel roads and plans are now being made to
consolidate the gains and develop them still further by closer attention to
the organization and planning of road maintenance. The detailed engineering
for U.N. Drive, the bridge in Monrovia and the Totota-Ganta road was success-
fully completed and the works are under construction as part of the Third
Highway Project. A study to determine how best to improve the efficiency
of the local civil engineering construction industry has been completed.
Loan No. 1156-LBR          Third Highway Project:  US$27.5 Million Loan of
August 28, 1975; Effective Date: October 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The construction of a major bridge and of an urban main road (5.4
mi.) in Monrovia and of a main road (83 mi.) has started and is proceeding
satisfactorily although initially somewhat hampered by bad weather and
difficulties in the supply of materials. The feasibility studies of two main
roads (90 mi.) and for an urban transport study in Monrovia are making good
progress. A feeder road construction unit became operational in January 1977
and is operating successfully in Lofa County in association with the Bank-
financed agricultural development project. Technical assistance in building
up the planning department of the Ministry of Public Works is proving fairly
effective.
Loan No. 1055-LBR          Second Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project
US$4 Million Loan of December 3, 1974; Effective Date:
January 3, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979; and
Loan No. 1323-LBR         Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effeccive
Date: December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The Loan 1055-LBR helped LBDI meet its import financing require-
ments through calendar year 1976. LBDI's loan approvals duri:ig calendar 1976
achieved the projected level for the year. Commitments and disbursements
were above targets. Disbursement of Bank funds has been slightly behind
schedule. The loan is fully committed and 80% disbursed is of October 31,
1977. The Loan 1323-LBR, signed October 7, 1976, togetbar with a loan from
the African Development Bank, would cover LBDI's forei6,n resource gap for the
period 1977 and 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1150-LBR         Third Power Project:  US$1.8 Million Loan of
August 1, 1975; Effective Date: October 20, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project finances technical assistance for establishing a long-
range development plan and detailed investment program as well as for strength-
ening the management of the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC) and training
its staff. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, although the
training program needs to be expanded to include practical training for middle-
level staff. The financial performance of the utility has deteriorated and
remedial measures are being taken to improve LEC's financial viability, e.g.
tariff increases, improved financial controls, in connection with the proposed
fourth power project. The Board of Directors recently replaced the Managing
Director with another Liberian. LEC is actively seeking assistance from a
foreign electric power utility to provide a management support team to
replace expatriates who are leaving on the expiry of their contracts.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
LIBERIA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 9 months (October 1974 to
June 1975).
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Agrar-und-Hydrotechnik
(Germany), consultants financed under Development Credit
306-LBR, Agricultural Development and Technical Assistance
Project.
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project:
August 1975.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: May 24, 1977
(e) Negotiations completed: February 17, 1978
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1978
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action:
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions:  The following special conditions are
incorporated in the draft Development Credit and Loan
Agreements:
(a) The Government to fill RDU Project Manager, Financial
Controller, Chief Technical Officer and Chief Operations
Officer posts with persons whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 34);
(b) The Government to ensure application of the guidelines
for selection of project participants and issuance of
credit and to review with the Bank/IDA each year the
application of such guidelines (para. 39);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c) The Government to complete and submit to Bank/IDA a
rubber pricing policy study within two years of loan/
credit signing and to establish an equitable producer
pricing policy satisfactory to Bank/IDA (para. 43);
(d) The Government to cause ACDB establish its lending and
borrowing policies and operational procedures including
accounting systems and financial controls satisfactory to
Bank/IDA (condition of effectiveness, para. 38);
(e) Execution of the Revolving Credit Fund Agreement
satisfactory to Bank/IDA (condition of effectiveness,
para. 38);
(f) Signing of a loan agreement between the Government and
CDC and conclusion of a technical assistance arrangement
between the Government and ODM (a condition of effectiveness,
para. 53);
(g) Appointments to the positions of Financial Controller,
Chief Technical Officer and Chief Operations Officer
of RDU (condition of effectiveness, para. 35).



IBRD 13114
-  ..- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z,V~'f                    ;"OW e 1977
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
JPVOINJA                                                                 N PROJECT
CYkiemot   -
L IB E R IA                                  C                      G      * N D4iD       S
L 0 F/4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~0    +# ~o ro
ar u _ g _ s ~~~~c   Ui fA//  FItFUT Y  
R_A N D                                                             6g cfl4HdflSO
7                    A~~~~~~~~~4A    rAtp
_ 0 N G7                       4 K 2F !s os   _ _ g10 20  40  60  aGra   e
wir ....    "   ,  w;  .  ^  f.  r  _  .  -1-l. wll ............ " *.FLEa|" 71P91-- ........ /6ff/ / / /FIREFIRESTONE.
C      USP NrTToY
'I G                    10'    0      0000                                 9 00  HARPE
I          I                         t                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



