                                                                                                             97768
Togo Community Development Project                                                                    April 13, 2011




 Community Development Project
 Providing social services and social protection to over 300,000 people in
 rural Togo


Overview
The Community Development Project (CDP) is a major instrument for basic social service
delivery, social protection, and community empowerment in Togo. Since the project was
approved in July 2008, the CDP has reached more than 300,000 beneficiaries in about 400
rural communities. These beneficiaries have been provided with basic socioeconomic
infrastructure, opportunities to generate income, and social safety nets. Examples of projects
include meals for schoolchildren and construction of public works.


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
For more than 15 years, starting in the 1990s, a
socio-political crisis affected the economy of
Togo and hampered the capacity of the
government to provide adequate social services
to the majority of its population. The political
situation in Togo is now stabilized and the
economy is slowly resuming. However, social
services  in rural communities in Togo remains
insufficient and is almost inexistent in the most
remote areas. Formal risk management
mechanisms to support households to cope with
recurrent crises do not exist. In this context, the
CDP was created to address the social needs of
the poorest rural communities and to support
Togo in meeting the Millennium Development           MORE
Goals (MDG), in particular those associated with       Also available in French
eradicating extreme poverty and hunger,
achieving universal primary education, , and
improving maternal health. This project is the
first International Development Association (IDA)-supported          More Results
operation in Togo in 10 years.

Approach
The project has adopted a community-driven development
approach (CDD) where communities themselves identify
                                                                   300,000
priorities and are involved in sub-project management.             The number of beneficiaries that
                                                                   the community development
Communities are supported by local nongovernmental                 project has reached since 2008
organizations (NGOs) and organizations that work under the
supervision of five regional implementing agencies. A
technical unit at the central level ensures overall
coordination. In a context characterized by weak service
delivery, especially at the local level, this approach helps
reach the communities most in need. The institutional
                                                                    271
                                                                    number of classrooms financed
framework also helps to identify needs and respond in a             by the project, along with 32
timely way (through social safety nets) to shocks that might        water and sanitation points, 10
                                                                    health centers and 19 rural
affect communities. Finally, the CDD approach empowers              roads
communities and strengthens local decision-making and
accountability among community members.
                                                                    MORE INFORMATION
Results
                                                                     Official site of Community
This project recently had a mid-term review and has                  Development Project
documented good results. Since approval in July 2008, it has         Community Development Project
supported the following outcomes:                                    and related materials

                                                                     Social Protection in Togo
       In support of the MDG – “Achieving Universal
       Education,” the school feeding project contributed to         Country Website
       increase the enrollment rate in beneficiary schools by        Country Brief
       9 percent and decrease absenteeism. In addition,
                                                                     Country Assistance Strategy
       about 17,200 students are now enrolled in new or
       rehabilitated schools financed by the CDP                     Data and Statistics
       infrastructure component.

       In support of the MDG – “Environmental
       Sustainability/Access to Water,” about 10,000 people
       now have access to improved water sources built by
       the project.

       Reached more than 400 communities, benefiting 300,000 people (directly or indirectly)
       via community socioeconomic infrastructure, income-generating activities, lunch for
       primary school children and support to agriculture;

       Financed over 88 schools (271 classrooms), 32 water and sanitation points, 10 health
       centers and 19 rural roads;

       Financed 233 income-generating activities, such as fishing, small gardening, livestock
       farms, cheese factories, directly benefiting more than 5,000 people;

       Served more than 6 million lunches to about 30,000 children in primary schools since
       school year 2008/2009; and

       Trained 3,800 community members on community development principles and basic
       project management.

The project is a reference point in terms of service delivery for rural communities. It is
expected to have a long-lasting impact on local development because it finances infrastructure
of satisfactory technical quality, sustainable income-generating activities and social safety nets
that reach the poorest and most vulnerable households.

Voices


      The season before receiving the funds from the project, we
   had revenues for 6 million CFA; the season after, we reached
   about 11 million CFA. In the household we have now more
   financial resources to address the needs of the family, send
   children to school and pay for medical care. Some of us
   improved their lifestyle, some bought motorcycles to do
   transport. Besides, we created employment in the village; each
   producer employs at least 5 permanent workers and 10 seasonal
   workers. Because we created jobs, we noticed a reduction of
   thefts in the village.  
                 —Gabla Kokou, president of a group of 238 farmers
                                 (small market gardener) in Danyi




Bank Contributions

       The initial IDA contribution to the CDP was US$17.2 million approved in July 2008.

       In response to the negative repercussions of the food price crisis, additional financing of
       US$7.0 million was made available under the Global Food Price Crisis Response Trust
       Fund in October 2008. 

       A second additional financing was approved in July 2010 to address the effects of the
       economic crisis.

       This financing was an IDA grant of US$8.7 million financed under IDA’s pilot Crisis
       Response Window.
       The total World Bank contribution to the CDP is US$32.9 million.



Partners
Although the CDP is financed entirely by the Bank, the public works component approved in
July 2010 was developed in collaboration with the International Labour Organization (ILO),
which has extensive experience with such interventions. There is a strong collaboration
between the Bank and United Nations (UN) agencies in helping the social protection agenda in
Togo by supporting analytical work and providing technical assistance to develop a national
safety nets strategy.

Toward the Future
he CDP has disbursed about 70 percent of the initial IDA grant. Given the success of the
project and the strong positive effect on rural communities and local development, the
government has formally requested IDA refinancing of the project for a second phase. In its
expansion phase, the project will also help build institutional capacity within the government,
increase temporary employment and will focus on youth.
