Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19300-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
June 28, 1999
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective mid-June 1999)
Currency Name = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00= US$0.12
US$ 1.00 = Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
ASEM         Asia Europe Meeting
BOF          Bureau of Finance
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DIFD         Department of International Trade and Development (United Kingdom)
ETC          Economic and Trade Commission
IDA          International Development Association
IFC          International Finance Corporation
LME          Large and Medium Enterprises
LTCSH        Light, Textile and Chemical State Enterprise Holding Company (Wuhan)
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOLSS        Ministry of Labor and Social Security
PBOC         People's Bank of China
PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development
PID           Project Information Document
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMO          Project Management Office
PRC          People's Republic of China
PSD          Private Sector Development
SETC         State Economic and Trade Commission
SME          Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE          State-Owned Enterprise
TOR          Tenns of Reference
WBI          World Bank Institute
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Manager: Hoon Mok Chung
Task Team Leader: Klaus Lorch



CHINA
Enterprise Reform Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ............1........................................I
1. Project development objectives and key  performance indicators ........................I
B. Strategic Context .....................................................2
1. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ..............................................2
2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................                              2
3. Learning  and  development issues to be addressed  by the Credit ........................5
4. Learning  and  innovation  expectations ...............................................6
C. Project Description Summary .....................................................8
1. Project outputs and components .....................................................8
2. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...................................................8
3. Monitoring  and evaluation  arrangements ....................................................    10
D. Project Rationale ....................................................                                                              10
E. Project Analyses ...................................................                                                                10
1. Economic analysis ................................................... 10
2. Institutional assessment ...........1........................................   1
3. Social assessment ...................................................                                                   12
4. Environmental assessment ...................................................                                            12
F. Risks ....................................................                                                                          12
1. Critical risks ....................................................                                                    12
2. Possible controversial aspects ....................................................                                     14
G. Main Credit Conditions ....................................................                                                         14
1. Effectiveness conditions .................................................... 14
2.  Other .................................................... 14
H. Readiness for Implementation ....................................................                                                   14
I.  Compliance with  Bank Policies .................................................... 15



Annexes
Annex 1       Project Design Summary
Annex 2       Detailed Project Description
Annex 3       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4       Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary (N/A)
Annex 5       Financial Summary
Annex 6       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A.1     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table B. 1    Procurement Plan
Table C       Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8       Documents in Project File
Annex 9       Summary of Bank Group Operations
Annex 10      Country at a Glance



China
Enterprise Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Private Sector Development Unit
Date: June 28, 1]999                               Task Manager: Klaus Lorch
Country Director: Yukon Huang                      Sector Manager: Hoon Mok Chung
Project ID: PE-60270  Sector: Enterprise Sector    Program Objective Category: PSD
Lending Instrurnent: Learning and Innovation Credit  Poverty Targeted Intervention:  []  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      [X] Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 5.0 million equivalent/SDR 3.7 million equivalent
Proposed terms:                       [X] Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
(SDR)
Grace pe:riod (years): 10        [   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Front-end fee: -
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                                  0.82               0.10            0.92
Cofinanciers                                                0.33               1.89            2.22
IDA                                                         0.90               4.10            5.00
Total          2.05               6.09             8.14
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agencies: State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC); Municipalities of Changsha, Shenyang, Wuhan,
and Wuhu
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999      2000       2001
Annual      0.0        3.0        2.0
Cumulative      0.0       3.0         5.0
Project implementation period: July 1999 - December 2001
Expected effectiveness date: July 26, 1999
Expected closing date: June 30, 2002
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 1
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the Project is to learn from innovative methods for the reform of China's state-owned
enterprise sector. The Project would thus help deepen enterprise reform in China, contributing to the
Country Assistance Strategy objective of maintaining the momentum  of structural reforms.  The
development objectives of this Learning and Innovation Project would be to identify and adapt potential
improvements in enterprise reform methods to local circumstances, test their feasibility through pilot
implementation, and make these lessons widely known among local and central policy-makers, leading to
the replication of promising reform methods beyond the Project itself. These enterprise reform measures
will address (i) corporate restructuring and transformation of large and medium state enterprises, (ii)
management development, (iii) re-training and re-employment of laid-off state enterprise employees, and
(iv) the development of private small and medium enterprises.
The achievement of Project objectives would be indicated by the extent to which several enterprise
reform measures under each of the above four Project components (i) - (iv) would have:
*  been proven successful in pilots;
*  led to refinements in municipal enterprise reform strategies and the strengthening of related
institutional capacity in the participating cities;
*  provided information about pilot results also to national policy-makers; and
*  started leading to replication within and outside the four pilot municipalities, in part accompanied by
legal/regulatory changes.
T'he performance in terms of Project outputs would be measured through the extent to which enterprise
reform measures under each of the four Project components have been:
3  customized to local circumstances;
•  implemented on a trial basis;
* analyzed regarding their results;
* revisited if not found successful; and
* disseminated with regard to the lessons learned
These above five stages of output would be expected to be accomplished through selected pilot activities
in the following areas:
*  Restructuring of Large and Medium Enterprises (LMEs): Financial restructuring through work-out,
bankruptcy, merger, and strategic investors; shedding of non-core commercial operations, excess real
estate, and social assets; and improved governance through revised stakeholder roles and ownership
changes.
*  Management Development: Workshops addressing issues as they emerge from testing reform
measures; structured study visit and secondment program for managers; development of distance
training methods and materials; and market-based executive search.
*  Re-training and Re-employment: Inter-connection of relevant information systems; re-training
strategy targeted at emerging service sector opportunities; training and assistance materials for
business start-up by laid-off people.
*  Development of Private Small and Medium  Enterprises (SMEs): Improved municipal SME
ownership transformation strategies and methods; establishment of local advisory service institution
for SME transformation; information systems to support SME ownership transactions; post-purchase
assistance to new SME owners; and redefinition of the role of industrial sector and SME policy on



Page 2
the municipal level.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by this Learning and Innovation
Credit (LIL) (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321-CHA   Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997; Program Note:
May 28. 1998
The Bank Group's strategy and objectives of the 1995 and 1997 CASs were grouped around five major
themes, one of which was to ensure macro-economics stability and maintain the momentum of structural
reforms. The reform of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) was highlighted in this context as one of the
critical structural reforms, together with financial sector and public finance reform. This Project
contrilbutes to the CAS objective of SOE reform by assisting in four pilot municipalities the development
and model implementation of SOE restructuring and transformation in the industrial sector, together with
related experimental support for management training, labor re-training, and the development of private
small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
The proposed Project would be part of a broader Assistance Program for Enterprise Program in China.
The Program provides, besides this Project, policy advice and technical assistance on additional aspects
of enterprise reform, funded with reallocations under the existing Technical Cooperation Credit III and
Shenyang Industrial Reform Loan, grant funds, and Bank budget. (Annex 2 shows such additional
activities under the heading "Related Activities".) The Program as a whole is being carried out in
partnership with other donor agencies and private institutions.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
State-owned enterprises (SOEs) are a key element in the Chinese economy. By end-1997, China had
about 300,000 SOEs involved in commercial activity (i.e., excluding state administrative units). Total
employment in the state sector was 77 million, or 11 percent of the active workforce. SOEs accounted
for nearly half of fixed assets and about one quarter of GDP. Approximately half of all SOE employment
was in the industrial sector.
The performance of industrial SOEs has been declining over the last few years. While reliable financial
data on enterprises are scarce, it appears that the share of loss-makers has increased and the sector's total
net profit decreased, while debt:equity ratios have risen. Unsold inventories and over-capacity abound in
many industries. Excess employment in industrial SOEs is widely estimated at 30 percent or more.
The weak performance of the industrial SOE sector and its overhang of social and financial liabilities
have been affecting the country's economy in many ways. Release of excess workers from SOEs into the
urban labor market causes severe social strain, especially while the social safety net is under
development. Social security costs and the transfer of SOE social assets are major fiscal burdens for
local govemments. The health of the banking sector is affected by a high share of non-performing loans
to SOEs. Moreover, the disproportionate allocation of credit to the SOE sector has opportunity costs in
terms of productivity, competitiveness, and economic growth.
Enterprise reform efforts in the early 1990s sought to strengthen the govemance of SOEs through a
variety of initiatives such as separating regulatory, ownership, and operating functions by setting up state
asset management bodies, corporatizing large and medium-size enterprises (LMEs), and clarifying the
rights and responsibilities of SOE management, including through quasi-contractual arrangements. On



Page 3
the whole, however, the impact on SOE performance has fallen short of the expectations. The
performance of collective and cooperative enterprises seems to have slowed as well. Often limited
management skills, unclear ownership arrangements, practically no access to the Shanghai, Shenzhen or
overseas stock markets, and difficulties in obtaining credit from banks that regard them as high risk, have
hindered the growth of these particular non-state firms beyond small to medium size, Non-collective
private or individual ventures have been emerging quite rapidly lately from a low base level and account
now for a rapidly growing share of employment generation although they, too, have been facing many
constraints. China has successfully attracted a large amount of foreign direct investments, with again
US$ 52 billion approved last year. While this new inflow seems to slow at present, it might recover if
additional sectors were opened to foreign investment. The legal and fiscal regimes of foreign- invested
and domestic enterprises tend towards some convergence.
In 1997, and further in early 1998, the Government has embarked on a course of accelerated and
deepened enterprise reform. A target of turning around the financial performance of the state enterprise
sector within three years has been pronounced in early 1998. A wide range of initiatives has been
introduced or reinforced, as outlined below.
Under the slogan "let go the small", local authorities have been transferring many of their small and
medium-size SOEs to private ownership. The private sector is now formally recognized as a key engine
of employment generation. A recent constitutional change acknowledges the important role cf private
enterprises. Local governments are admonished to cut back the plethora of charges whose collection
burdens SMEs. Some first private enterprises have lately been given the right to engage directly in export
and import activities. Bank lending to SMEs is being encouraged through the establishment of local-level
credit guarantee institutions and somewhat more flexibility in lending rates.
The privatization of larger enterprises is not formally encouraged, conforming with the slogan to "grasp
the large". However, partial changes in ownership through stock market listings and employee shares,
the transfer of assets and operations into joint ventures, and efforts to attract strategic investors into
distressed firms are quite common. At the same time, efforts to strengthen SOE govemance through
other means are being reinforced, such as building a corps of special inspectors for large SOEs,
transiferring SOEs from the military, police and party organs to the central and local governments, linking
managers' incentives more to the firm's financial performance, and more strictly enforcing managers'
accountability through replacements and legal action. Management training is receiving high priority,
with a 3-months executive development program now practically mandatory for top managers of large
SOEs and with special courses for managers of loss-making SOEs. More broadly, the Government seeks
to enhance corporate governance by strengthening accounting standards, audit quality, public disclosure
requirements, and penalties for mis-reporting. The Government has also sought to harden the budget
constraints of enterprises by requiring banks to strengthen their credit analysis skills, intensifying their
prudential supervision, and discouraging local government guarantees. Budget constraints have again
been temporarily loosened since mid last year, however, for purposes of macro-economic stimulation, as
will be described further below.
Industrial SOEs tend to be saddled with extensive burdens in terms of financial debt, over-capacity,
excess employment, and social facilities. Efforts are under way to remove sub-scale operations through
closure or the formation of sectoral business groups, commonly at the municipal or provincial level. In
some cases this is done although it might reduce competition, and in others precisely in order to curtail
competition perceived as excessive. Special programs are currently dismantling chronic excess capacity
in the textile, coal, sugar refining, and other industries, often involving administrative selection and
partial financial compensation. Many SOEs have been reducing their employment through natural
attrition, early retirement, and the spin-off of social and other non-core operations. Many redundant
employees of SOEs, however, are being transferred for up to three years to local employment service



Page 4
centers where they receive job search assistance, some basic re-training, financial support, and often
continued access to their former employers' health and education facilities. Efforts are under way to
increasingly "pool" pension systems across enterprises, sectors, and geographical boundaries. Still,
unemployment and the ensuing risks to social welfare and stability remain the largest constraint to the
scope and pace of enterprise reform. Enterprise housing is being sold to employees at somewhat
favorable prices, although the pace has fallen behind original targets. Social services of industrial
enterprises are gradually being transferred to municipal organs, although at measured pace due primarily
to local fiscal constraints.
Last year, the implementation speed of several such reforms has been circumscribed by the slowdown of
economic growth and the ensuing difficulties in labor absorption. The decline of macro-economic
growth has mainly been the result of contractionary domestic policy in 1996-97 and a drop last year in
exports to Asian markets. Government policies to address this economic slowdown, and the ensuing
risks to social and financial stability, have in the industrial sector led to the softening of budget
constraints and more caution in some enterprise reform initiatives. The expanded fiscal and bank funding
of fixed asset investments has triggered a surge in demand for construction materials, for example, and to
some extent found its way directly into industry itself. In particular, loss-making enterprises could
participate in a special credit program that sought to finance their export operations in a manner shielded
from the general financial condition of these firms. A resolute anti-smuggling drive enhanced the
effectiveness of import protection. As to more caution in reform implementation, the bankruptcy of
SOEs has been discouraged in favor of merging failing firms into stronger ones, accompanied by some
debt relief or restructuring but often still burdening the absorbing firm. Local over-the-counter stock
markets that had significant operations but were of unclear legality and practically unregulated, have been
closed down. Local authorities have also been admonished to not just sell SMEs, but to transfer them in a
fair and lawful manner, seek sound investors, ensure that social effects are addressed, and provide follow-
up support to the new owners.
In late 1998, with the financial crisis abating in the region, the Government has given a new impetus to
reformn by calling for the resolution of non-performing bank loans. The main venue is supposed to be
asset mnanagement companies. A first such company has been established recently for assets of the China
Construction Bank, and the three other largest banks are expected to follow suit. Since the bulk of bad
loans of these banks are SOE debt, this should trigger a focus also on corporate financial restructuring.
Moreover, a new Securities Law has been introduced, with effectiveness from mid-1999, to help overhaul
the securities industry, its prudential supervision, financial disclosure, the approval process for market
listings, and other key elements. These reforms should enhance the role of minority shareholders in
corporate governance, impose more market discipline on listed firms, and in the longer run facilitate the
access of sound firms to capital markets.
While enterprise reform polices are expected to further deepen during the Project period, and likely
accele:rate due to the above new initiatives, implementation of reform measures on the local level faces a
number of constraints. First, district and municipal authorities still have little experience with some of the
reform initiatives, limited skills and capacity, and narrow knowledge of overseas experience and good
practice standards. They thus also face difficulties in fully assessing the results of experiments, and in
adapting international practices to local circumstances. Second, many business support services are still
undercleveloped at the local level, and enterprises and local authorities alike have limited experience in
drawing on financial and other advisory services which will be required for corporate restructuring.
Third, shortcomings in the accounting, audit and disclosure of firms call for special efforts to verify and
assess financial data, which is necessary for many enterprise reform  activities.  Fourth, several
restructuring actions, such as debt write-off, bankruptcy, stock market listings and, to some extent, lay-
offs tend to be governed by administrative quota allocation rather than more market-based incentives.
Fifth, the increasing role of non-state enterprises at the sub-national level requires adjustments in policy



Page 5
instruments, support programs, and institutional responsibilities in the industrial and other sectors.
The proposed Project would help to assess the potential and problems of enterprise reform measures in
the local context, identify and adapt promising approaches further to local circumstances, test them
through implementation on a pilot basis, and share the lessons widely for replication. These lessons, as
well as the enhancement of implementation capacity in the participating municipalities, would also
facilitate follow-up support by the Bank and other agencies.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the LIL:
Upon request by the State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
the Project would address selected enterprise reform issues through a series of innovation and leaming
steps: (i) The design of pilot measures based on a review of current local practices and priority issues;
(ii) on-site assistance in implementing selected measures in participating pilot municipalities; (iii)
assessment of the pilot experience during and after the implementation process; (iv) sharing of the lessons
with central and local policy-makers and practitioners, including suggestions for adjustments in policies
and laws/regulations; and (v) dissemination of the lessons beyond the pilot municipalities.
The participating pilot municipalities include the large interior city ofChangsha, the old heavy-industry
city of Shenyang in the north, the faster growing Wuhan that has more linkages to the advanced coastal
regions, and the medium-size town of Wuhu. These municipalities have been selected because of their
commitment to innovation and learning in enterprise reform, their demonstrated implementation
capabilities, and their constituting a certain mix in terms of location, size, and industry composition.
The Project would address a range of issues related to enterprise reform. With regard to corporate
restructuring itself, the Project would tackle issues of: Voluntary financial work-out, distress
mergers/acquisitions and bankruptcies; focusing enterprises on their core competencies through disposal
of non-viable operations and excess assets as well as grouping and consolidation of sub-scale operations;
and governance improvements through modified governance arrangements and diversification and other
transformation of ownership. To address related social constraints to the scope and speed of enterprise
reform, the Project would deal with issues of: Re-training strategy; and business creation for labor
absorption. With most job creation occurring in the private small and medium enterprise sector, the
Project would address also issues of: SME transfer to private ownership, availability and access to
business support services, and private-sector and market-oriented SME development policy. Finally, to
underpin many of these issues, the Project would help innovate approaches to management development,
such as: Distance training for managers; a highly structured enterprise visit and secondment program;
and market-based executive search. The particular issues are described further in section 4 below, and in
detail in Annex 2.
The methodologies to be tested would be identified and adapted in several ways. Some have been
identified by the clients and the Association in preparation of the Project; others will emerge from
analytical sector work this year, in particular an on-going study on bankruptcy and planned studies on
voluntary work-out and SME development; and further methodologies will be developed through the
collaboration of the municipal clients with advisors under the Project itself. The assessment of the
individual pilots will use benchmarks that will be defined on a case-by-case basis at the outset of the
respective pilot, along performance dimensions reflected summarily in Annex 2. These assessments of
pilots would be carried out mainly by the municipalities and SETC with support by the Association and
relevant advisors under the Project. Longer-term impacts would be monitored by the clients and the
Association, potentially with the involvement of additional grant-funded consultants. Assessment would
also involve the discussion of pilot results at local or national workshops; systematic peer review
throughout the Project implementation period; and regular meetings of the four participating



Page 6
municipalities, SETC and other national agencies, consultants, the Association and partner donors in
intervals of about 4 months.
Successful approaches could potentially be assisted on a broader basis and in more depth through follow-
up operations by the Bank, possibly in partnership with other donors. A project to support the creation of
small enterprises for the absorption of laid-off state enterprise workers would be prepared, and the
possibility of a project for more extensive technical assistance to corporate financial work-out is under
discussion. Both these projects would draw on early lessons derived from the LIL.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
a) Economic
The Project would provide insights into practical implementation issues and the local impact of
enterprise reform in China. This would help to better assess the linkages, pace and sequencing of
enterprise reform. It would also help to better understand policy and legal constraints, and the benefits
and costs of addressing them. This would be helpful for the clients and the Bank in economic policy
dialogue, advice on new legislation and regulations, and in designed assistance programs. Key issues of
enterprise reform about which the Project would generate lessons include, e.g., the scope for ownership
changes to improve governance, the overhang of non-performing bank debt, and the constraints to
reallocating SOE excess labor. The Project would also provide advice on the redefinition of industrial
sector and SME policies in a market-based economy with an increasing role of the private sector. Some
lessons could help shape the drafting of relevant laws and regulations, for example under the on-going
Economic Legislation Reform Project.
b) Financial
Lessons about the corporate work-out can be relevant for a very large number of Chinese enterprises and
their cireditors, including the main domestic banks and the asset management companies that they are
currently establishing. The Project would also help identify issues and technical solutions for the analysis
of enterprise financial statements; this would benefit client institutions as well as follow-up activities by
the Bank, in the enterprise and financial sectors.
c) Technical
The Project would not address technical issues in an engineering sense. However, it would provide
important lessons regarding a range of specific techniques and related skills in several spheres:
Enterprise reform/restructuring; enterprise management and management training; labor re-training and
re-employment; and the development of private SMEs. These lessons would help firms and governments
in the participating municipalities and on the national level, and through dissemination also other cities.
Lessons on specific enterprise reform techniques could also provide the basis for follow-up assistance by
the Bank, including a potential Project on micro credit aimed at laid-off workers and more extensive
technical assistance for corporate work-out.
Practically all sub-components have some innovative aspect. Many innovative elements will be
developed in the course of on-site assistance, and the continued sharing of experience and ideas between
various parties. Innovative in the Chinese context are, for example: Techniques of voluntary corporate
work-out of state industrial enterprises involving debtor enterprise, creditors, and owners; the systematic
identification of a firm's core competencies aimed at the shedding of non-core and non-viable operations;
new approaches to ensure adequate capture of the value of SOEs' excess real estate for the settlement of
financial and social liabilities; the use of distance learning for business and management skills; the



Page 7
engagement of professional services for the market-based search of SOE executives; packaged technical
support for business start-up by laid-off workers; the promotion of modem service business concepts like
franchising; a broader range of techniques for competitive and transparent ownership transformation of
local SMEs; and toolkits and other support for recent buyers of local state enterprises.
d) Institutional
The Project would provide a wide range of training, both with support by the World Bank Institute (WBI)
and through on-site advisors, that will strengthen the skills and knowledge of various enterprise
reform/support and labor market institutions. Knowledge will further be expanded and disseminated
through model documents, case study materials, and best-practice standards that would be developed
under the Project, as well as various events for sharing of experience. The Project Management Offices
(PMOs) will get experience with Bank procedures, which would facilitate follow-up projects. Efforts
specifically for institutional innovation would include, for example: A local advisory center for corporate
work-out; the inter-connection of data base systems for re-training, re-employment, and benefits
administration; improved information technology support for ownership transactions, includingWebsites;
and enhanced property rights transaction centers with a broader assistance menu for SME transformation
and its follow-up.
e) Social
The Project will help revisit and test ways to foster re-training of laid-off workers in a manner that is well
aimed at job growth opportunities, especially in the service sectors. One of these ways will be training
and counseling to laid-off employees to start their own businesses. The latter in particular could provide
important lessons for a potential project that would provide micro credit and support services access for
the establishment of small businesses by, and for, laid-off workers.
f) Environmental
The innovation and learning pursued by the Project would not aim specifically at environmental
objectives.
g) Participation
The Project would help bring together debtor enterprises, their owners, and their creditors in planning and
agreeing on voluntary financial work-outs. This could provide valuable insights for broader programs of
corporate work-out involving the resolution of non-performing bank loans. Business associations such as
local chapters of the All China Federation of Industry and Commerce would participate in providing
guidance to the activities under the SME development component of the Project, as well as some of the
retraining activities. This could provide an example for future cooperation between the authorities and
business associations on the local level. The Project has been prepared in collaboration with the
Intemational Finance Corporation (IFC), and in coordination with a number of other development
agencies such as the Department for International Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom and the
Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit of Germany.



Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project outputs and components:
The Project components are described in detail in Annex 2. A detailed cost breakdown is shown in
Annex 3. A summary is shown in the following table.
Component                Setor        Cost Inld.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
US$SM)        _       USSM)   financing
Restructuring Models for       Consultant           3.73      45.8       1.91      38.2
Large/Medium Enterprises    Services and
Training
Management Development            Ditto             1.90      23.3       1.30      26.0
Re-Training and Re-Employment     Ditto             1.24       15.2      0.90       18.0
Development of Private SMEs       Ditto             1.27       15.6      0.98       17.8
Total                8.14    1 00.0       5.0      100.0
Project. funding would be quite small in view of the large number of sub-components. Achieving
objectives under this funding constraint would be made possible by piloting most individual sub-
components in only one of the participating cities respectively, and in few enterprises, and sharing the
lessons among the cities. Moreover, the Project will be supplemented in some key areas by analytical
work carried out by the Bank and IFC. The IFC, which has participated in Project preparation, is prepared
to provide supplementary technical assistance especially in ownership transformation and SME
development, and potentially investment. Some sub-components would be closely coordinated with
further partner institutions. For Shenyang, for example, the Department for International Development of
the United Kingdom has been designing a grant program of US$6-9 million equivalent in close
collaboration with the Bank that would test additional enterprise reform approaches, deepen the learning
experience, and also assist the local financial sector. Wuhan and Wuhu, as further examples, are included
in a twvo-province (Hubei and Anhui) program for SME development sponsored by various German
agencies.
This Project involves intensive inputs of Bank staff expertise in the course of preparation and
supervision to ensure that broad international best-practice knowledge is brought to bear and well adapted
to local circumstances.
The proposed Project would be part of the Bank Group's existing broader Assistance Program for
Enterprise Reform in China. Only those activities that would receive funding under this Credit are
included in the Project scope. Additional activities under the Program are mentioned in Annex 2 as
'related activities'.
To permit innovation in a dynamic environment, the Project needs to allow a certain degree of flexibility
in implementation. For example, some of the methodologies to be pilot tested will be developed in the
course of the Project itself, as outlined in Section B.3 above. Benchmarks for measuring pilot success
would also need to be finetuned on a case-by-case basis, although before start of each pilot. The PMOs
would submit to the Association on a regular basis work plans including detailed training plans and
updated procurement plans, satisfactory to the Association.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Borrower would on-lend the Credit funds to the finance bureaus of the four provinces concerned



Page 9
(Hunan, Liaoning, Hubei, and Anhui), which in turn would on-lend to the four participating
municipalities. Each municipality will repay to the Borrower through its respective province in semi-
annual installments over a period of seventeen years, including five years of grace. The on-lending will
involve a service charge equal to three fourths of one percent per annum on the amount withdrawn and
outstanding by a city, and a commitment charge of one-half of one percent per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit made available to each municipality and not withdrawn. The International
Department of MOF will also help ensure compliance with Bank guidelines, especially relating to
disbursements and financial management.
The Project will be overseen by the State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC). SETC is in charge
of developing China's policy framework for SOE reform, and monitoring and guiding its implementation.
These powers have been strengthened last year by consolidating in SETC some responsibilities hitherto
exercised by the State Council Office of Economic System Reform and other institutions. Within SETC,
the Department of Enterprise Reform is responsible for this Project. SETC will be the principal point of
contact with the World Bank at the national level. SETC will provide coordination with and between the
four participating municipalities, feedback and advice on enterprise reform methods tested under the
Project, liaison with other national authorities in the case of cross-cutting policy issues and reform
proposals, and support in disseminating lessons learned beyond the four pilot municipalities. The
Department of Enterprise Reform will be supported by SETC's International Department in procedural
matters relating to the Project.
Other national agencies such as the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSS), the People's Bank
of China (PBOC), and the Securities Regulatory Commission will be informed and consulted in matters
pertaining to their jurisdiction, for example, labor re-training, the restructuring of corporate bank debt,
and ownership transformation of listed companies. Neither SETC nor other national agencies will
themselves implement activities financed under the Credit.
The Project would be implemented by the Municipalities of Changsha, Shenyang, Wuhan, and Wuhu.
The Borrower will enter into a Project Implementation Arrangement with each of the municipalities, the
principal terms of which are specified in the Development Credit Agreement between IDA and the
People's Republic of China.
Within each municipality, the Mayor's Office has appointed a Leading Group, headed by a Vice Mayor,
to oversee the Project. In each municipality, a Project Management Office (PMO) has been established
that reports to the municipal Leading Group and is attached to the municipal Government or its Economic
and Trade Commission (ETC). The Heads and Deputy Heads of all four PMO have been appointed.
Each PMO has in addition between three and fifteen staff. The PMOs would prepare regular reporting
information on project monitoring indicators, project accounts, and procurement. This information would
be reviewed and consolidated by SETC, which would then submit it to the Association.
Most sub-components in the Municipalities will be implemented by other municipal entities. In
Changsha, the executing agencies include a Leading Group on Enterprise Restructuring, ETC, and the
Labor Bureau. In Shenyang, they include ETC, the Institute of Economic Management, the Property
Rights Transaction Center, and the Labor Bureau. In Wuhan, the Light, Textile and Chemical State
Holding Company (LTCSH) of the Municipality has been entrusted by the Mayor's Office to carry out
several sub-components, whereas others will be executed by the PMO itself. In Wuhu, ETC will be
responsible for implementation, for some sub-components in collaboration with the Labor Bureau, Social
Security Bureau, and Education Bureau.



Page 1 0
The implementation responsibilities of the various parties are clarified further in the Project
Implementation Plans of each municipality.
At the Association, the supervision of the proposed Project is expected to require considerable staff
resources, compressed into the three years Project period. This would be justified by the potentially high
benefits; of successful and well-disseminated innovations if they got widely replicated beyond the Project
itself. Moreover, such replication could be supported with future Bank operations, whose preparation
would be facilitated by the lessons learned through this LIL.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Financial reporting formats will be approved by the Bank's regional Financial Management Specialist.
The financial reporting forms are to conform to the forms agreed between the Government and the World
Bank by exchange of letters in December 1998 and January 1999.
Under the proposed procedures, the implementing agencies will submit to SETC semi-annually a set of
financial reports covering the respective sub-components of the Project. SETC will consolidate these
financial reports and submit them to the Association, on a semi-annual basis. The reports will comprise:
1. Sumnmary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component.  Sources (IDA, grants, and
municipalities) and uses of funds will be reported on a cash basis for the period and for each
component of the project to date.
2. Statement of Implementation of Credit Agreement. The expenditures will be classified according to
project categories, and will report current and cumulative withdrawals for credit proceeds.
3. Special Account Statements. A cash reconciliation report for each special account will be prepared.
4. Balance Sheets.
The four PMOs will prepare and be required to agree to maintain required project records as specified in
Annex 6.
Project monitoring indicators have been drafted as reflected in Annex 1, and will be discussed with the
Borrower and PMOs during appraisal. Input and output indicators will be reported on a semi-annual
basis by the PMOs to SETC, which would review and submit them to the Association. Outcome and
impact indicators will be reported in the same manner upon mid-term review and completion of the
Project. The mid-term review would take place in the third quarter of calendar year 2000. Training on
project output monitoring and impact evaluation would be provided to the PMOs, and also the Finance
Bureaus, by Bank staff within three months after Project approval, at the occasion of one of the regular
coordination and feedback meetings between the main parties involved in the Project.
D: Project Rationale
This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD; see Section B.3 for project rationale.
E: Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Analysis (supported by Annex 4):
Not applicable: Economic or financial benefits of the learning impact cannot be readily or meaningfully
quantified.



Page 1 1
2. Institutional assessment:
a Executing agencies: SETC will have overall responsibility for coordination of the Project. SETC is a
national agency with a status comparable to a ministry, has highly qualified staff, including its Enterprise
Reform Department and International Department, and prior experience collaborating with the Bank
under grant and loan/credit funding. SETC has engaged a new staff to work part-time on this Project, and
it is envisaged that SETC will use trust funds to engage two local consultants to assist Project
implementation.
The four municipalities have been chosen by the Bank in coordination with SETC from a larger sample in
view particularly of their interest in pursuing genuine enterprise reform and their proven ability to
implement it. The municipalities' Vice Mayors responsible for industry and enterprise reform, and the
ETCs that they are overseeing, have been playing a key role in local enterprise reform. The ETCs, which
will execute many sub-components and to which the PMOs are attached, are generally well-staffed with
officials and staff who often have substantial personal experience in enterprise management and have
been pursuing reform in a results-oriented manner. Each of these municipal ETCs, however, could
benefit from learning best practice, adapted to China's local circumstances, through technical advice,
formal training, and on-the-job collaboration with enterprise reform experts in the design, implementation
and review of reform measures.
Supplementary institutions that will execute some sub-components, such as the LTCSH inWuhan and the
Property Rights Transaction Center in Shenyang have been chosen because of their demonstrated interest
and capability in implementing innovative enterprise reform measures. Two additional local entities for
assistance to SME transformation and to enterprise and excess asset restructuring are envisaged to be
designed and established with advice under the Project.
b. Project management: The four municipal Leading Groups for the Project include the respective local
ETC, Finance Bureau, Labor Bureau, and other relevant agencies such as the People's Bank, Education
Bureau, and Personnel Bureau, at the level of bureau Director or Vice Director. The four PMOs have
been established. They are attached to the municipal governments or the above-described ETCs, and
largely staffed with seconded or former ETC personnel. All PMOs have by now at least three staff in
addition to their Head and Deputy Heads. The PMO in Shenyang has more than 15 staff, established
systems and procedures, and several years of experience in implementing World Bank projects,
especially the Shenyang Industrial Reform Project. The PMO in Wuhan also has substantial staff
resources who are familiar with the Bank and some of its procedures. Between 1996 and mid-1998, it
handled the preparation of a Hubei Enterprise Reform Project, which was last year abandoned at the pre-
appraisal stage; some of its technical assistance elements, but not its credit line, are now moved into this
proposed Project. The PMOs in Changsha and Wuhu, by contrast, have been newly established in last
fall. All four PMOs have at least one staff who will focus on procurement matters, and have participated
in procurement training.  The procurement capabilities of all participating PMOs have been assessed
prior to negotiations. Each PMO has also engaged at least one staff or consultant with a certificate and
substantial experience in accounting, and training has been provided in the relevant IDA procedures
pertaining to accounting, financial reporting, and disbursement. The proposed LIL would provide
learning experience to the PMOs to help strengthen their capabilities for potential loan and grant-funded
follow-up activities.



Page 12
The PM4Os' financial management capacity is being built. It has been reviewed by a Financial
Management Specialist to determine that the system and accompanying staff are capable of producing
timely and accurate information required in the production of financial reports to satisfy the requirements
underEIP 10.02.
3. Social assessment:
The Project finances only advice and training, and the advised activities have only a minor direct social
impact. The Project will, however, generate lessons which, if replicated widely, could have a significant
indirect social impact. This concerns, in particular, methods for the downsizing or liquidation of
enterprises, the capture of SOE excess assets for the settlement of social liabilities, the transfer of social
assets to municipal authorities, information basis and strategies for re-training and re-employment, and
supporl: to laid-off people who plan to go into business. The Project activities are being coordinated with
concun-ent Bank operations such as an older enterprise housing project, grant-funded assistance to health
services rationalization in Wuhan, a planned study on re-employment in three cities including Shenyang
and Wuhan, and a LIL on Pension Reform that has recently been approved.
4. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category        [ ] A    [ ] B    [X] C
The Project provides only technical assistance. The corporate restructuring that will be assisted will
focus on financial re-organization, changes in corporate governance, and disposal of non-core or non-
viable operations rather than on technological choices or new physical investments. Advice and training
on corporate restructuring will help to ensure that contingent liabilities for environmental damage are
appropriately taken into account in decisions on bankruptcy, and in valuing enterprise for ownership
transfer. This being said, the Project is not expected to present environmental risks and an environmental
rating of "C" is proposed.
F: Risks
1. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                  Risk                Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex  1, cell  "from   Outputs  to
Objective"
Learning may not be shared beyond the    M   Sharing  is built into  the  Project through: regular
implementing entities.                       coordination meetings of the four cities and SETC;
documentation in manuals, model documents, case studies,
etc.; use of Internet to support dissemination; building
lessons into WBI training of trainers and practitioners;
involvement of SETC.
There is a general practice in China of learning from pilots.
Lessons may not be widely replicated due    S    China's leadership has been expressing and demonstrating
to reluctance to proceed with deepening      its commitment to enterprise reform, including resolution
of enterprise reform.                        of excess employment and encouragement of the private
sector.  During the economic slowdown and regional
financial crisis some reforms slowed down but the overall
direction and momentum were retained.
Extension of enterprise reform into corporate debt
restructuring has now been initiated on the national level.



Page 13
Recent admonishments by the senior leadership to think
through reform implementation should encourage attention
to pilot mechanisms and their lessons.
Drastic  economic  slowdown   with    S    Despite the regional financial crisis in 1998, China's GDP
worsening of social strains or difficulties  grew substantially and its high foreign exchange reserves
in the financial system may affect the       did not decline. The Government expects for 1999 at least
speed of enterprise reform.                  7% growth in GDP.
Corporate   financial   restructuring    S    Design and implementation of work-outs will emphasize
measures may not be sustainable due to       linkage with governance improvements, including major
weak enterprise governance.                  ownership transformations.
Clients are strongly aware of importance to strengthen
governance.   Steps taken in 1998 to improve the
governance framework focused on financial disclosure,
creditor rights, recognition of private enterprises role, etc.
Work-out objects under the Project are not among the
largest national SOEs excluded from ownership reform.
Legal/regulatory constraints may prevent   M    Local authorities are committed to facilitating Project
the implementation of some promising         success through changes in local policies/regulations.
reform measures.                             Stewardship  of Project by  SETC  would  facilitate
regulatory and legal changes at the national level.
Concurrent sector work and dialogue on policy issues, and
legal drafting assistance under Legal Reform Project, will
support policy and legal strengthening.
Lessons may not be utilized for future    S    Lessons from the Project should help convince clients of
Bank activities for lack of Bank-funded      the value of professional advice for corporate restructuring.
follow-up projects.                          The volume of advisors' pro bono efforts and other donors'
grant funding will not suffice for corporate work-outs on
the scale contemplated by large banks for their asset
management companies.
Clients have encouraged the Bank to design a project for
urban micro credit aimed at laid-off workers.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to
Outputs"
High overhead costs and processing time,    S    No procurement of goods. Consultant procurement will
relative to Project size and reform          often be based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ) and fall
urgency, are needed to implement the         beneath the threshold for time-consuming advertisement.
Bank's procurement, disbursement and         Workshops are held on procurement, disbursement, and
financial management procedures at the       financial management.
local PMOs.
Limited funding under the Project could    S    Careful selection of pilot activities within each sub-
jeopardize the depth or completion of        component.
some efforts.                                Cooperation with other donors, including IFC, United
Kingdom and Germany, for supplementary or follow-up
activities. Continued mobilization of additional grant
resources.
Follow-up activities under a potential micro credit project
and potential TA loan for more corporate restructuring.
Local   inter-agency    coordination    M    Municipalities have been chosen based on proven ability to
problems   could   delay   decisions         implement reform rapidly.



Page 14
RWL k                 Risk               Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
pertaining to individual Project activities.  Strong commitment has been expressed by Mayors and
relevant Vice Mayors of the participating cities.
Supervision budget may not be sufficient   M    Adequate budget resources are to be committed for FY00
for large number of sub-components and      and assured for FY01 in view of large potential project
intensive learning.                         impact.
Overall Risk Rating                    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
2. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Changes in the ownership structure of large and medium state-owned enterprises are in principle
accepted as one of the possible means for improving corporate governance and attracting capital, but
transferring effective control of such large SOEs to the private sector is not a policy objective. The
Government's prerogative of "grasping the large" state enterprises, while "letting go the small", is
variably applied only to the largest national SOEs and few key SOEs in certain sectors of strategic
importance, or also to various provincial and municipal SOEs that are large only from the respective local
perspective. The Project will aim to enhance the sustainability of the impact of corporate restructuring
pilots through appropriate governance and adequate capital injections in the respective municipalLMEs,
which will likely involve changes in ownership structures in a number of these municipality-levelLMEs
or their sub-units.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* Execution of a Project Implementation Arrangement on behalf of the Borrower and each participating
city.
2. Other:
*  Submission of training programs acceptable to the Association, for every twelve months for the
following period.
*  Maintaining the PMOs in the four municipalities in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. Consultant terms of reference for all major consultant engagements in the first
year of the Project have been developed and discussed with the clients.
[X] The LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Page 15
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[1 ] [The following exceptions to Bank-policies are recommended for approval:
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
jL St~~~~~ 6/a2-,719
Taik .Taa                          PSD Spcialist, EASPS
SCoi  Rsw: Haaw b                ,   e              Dpn Unt 
9K?             X           ~~~~612*1909
Co=try, cko Yu"



Annex 1 - Page 1
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summtary   f       Key Performance Indicators             Monitoring and Evaluation           Critical Assunmptions
Sector-related CAS                                                                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:
Maintain the miomentum   In the four participating municipalities:  In the four participating municipalities:  Speed of enterprise reform
of structural reform:     1) Improved financial soundness of     1) Firms financially restructured as % of   will not be affected by a
Enterprise reform (in      industrial firms.                       industrial state-owned LMEs with     drastic economic
addition to financial sector  2) Transfer of excess employment in  excessive debt:equity ratio or non-  slowdown with worsening
and fiscal reform)          industrial firms to new job            performing bank debt; and %          social strains or difficulties
opportunities.                        improvement in adjusted debt:equity    in the financial system
3) Increased focus of firms on viable core  ratio of sample of industrial LMEs.
operations.                         2) Reduction of employment in industrial  Improvements in corporate
4) Improved governance in enterprises,    SOEs as % of their estimated excess  governance through
including improvements in ownership    employment; and % of released       ownership transformation
structure.                            industrial SOE employees re-absorbed   and other means will
5) Improved management practices in      by labor market.                     enhance the sustainability
industrial firms.                   3) % of over-capacity reduced in textile    of corporate financial
6) As results of the above, improved     industry; and % of medical facilities    restructuring measures
financial cash flow of industrial LMEs.  under industrial SOEs transferred out
7) More supportive environment for       of the SOEs.
private SMEs.                       4) % increase of the share of firms under
non-state control in total industrial
output.
5) % of senior industrial SOE managers
that underwent substantial management
training.
6) % improvement in profit of industrial
state-owned LMEs.
7) List of measures taken in previous
period to enhance the development of
non-state SMEs.
Project Development                                                                                     (Objective to CAS Goal)
Objectives:
Potential improvements in   Several enterprise reform measures:  a) Evaluation of the pilots in each sub-  Lessons of pilot activities
enterprise reform methods   a) proven as successful in pilots;     component jointly by clients and     are shared beyond the
adapted to local         b) information about them reaching        World Bank;                          implementing entities.
circumstances,              relevant national policy-makers and a    b) extent of dissemination of these reform
demonstrated as feasible,   large number of local policy-makers;   measures through written materials   Replication of successes is
made widely known        c) replication starting within and outside  and/or presentations and training;  not hindered by reluctance
among central and local    the four pilot municipalities,        c) reflection in policy and            to proceed with deepening
policy-makers, and       in each of the four Project components:   legal/regulatory changes; replication in  of enterprise reform.
replicated beyond the     1) LME restructuring;                    follow-up projects by Bank and/or
Project.                 2) Management development;                other donors.                        Follow-up projects do
3) Labor Re-training and re-employment;                                       materialize.
4) Private SME development.
Outputs:                                                                                                (Outputs to Objective)
Selected enterprise reform   Five output stages (see left side)  For each of these sub-components:      Depth or completion of
measures in each of four    accomplished regarding:              a) Review of plans and designs;        Project activities not
components:               1) LME Restructuring: Financial        b) progress in pilot implementation;   jeopardized by limited
a) customized to local      restructuring through work-out,      c) reports on pilot results;           Project funding
circumstances;           bankruptcy, merger, and strategic    d) recommendations to revise
b) implemented as test;    investor; shedding non-core             unsuccessful models;                 Implementation of small
c) analyzed re results;     commercial operations, excess real   e) models documented, shared among     but urgent activities not
d) revisited if not found   estate, and social assets; and improved  pilot cities and national authorities, and  hindered by complex Bank
successful; and          governance through revised stakeholder    more widely disseminated.         procedures
e) lessons disseminated.    roles, group formation, and ownership
changes.                                                                   Implementation of pilot
2) Management Development:                                                    measures not failed by



Annex 1 - Page 2
N&rratii. Stsmmary  Key Po:ylbrtirm  n   Jj|dicat~r~   l,oniterhig an400i  Ed lan      Ctcl Aj00+ionisg3is
Workshops addressing issues as they                                         legal/regulatory constraints
emerge from testing reform measures;
structured study visit or secondment
program; distance training methods;
market-based executive search.
3) Re-training and Re-employment:
Connection of relevant information
systems; re-training strategy targeted at
emerging service sector opportunities;
training and materials for business
start-up by laid-off people.
4) Development of Private SMEs:
Improved municipal SME ownership
transformation strategies and methods;
advisory service institution for SME
transformation; information systems to
support SME ownership changes; post-
purchase assistance to new owners;
redefinition of role of industrial sector
policy on municipal level.
Project Components       Inputs: (budget for each component;                                            (Components to Outputs)
/Sub-components          Credit financing in brackets)
(see Annex 2 for detail):
I) Restructuring models    1) $3.670 million ($1.9m)             Supervision of individual components,  Decisions pertaining to
for industrial LMEs                                           including implementation of their       Project activities not
2) Management            2) $1.875 million ($1.3m)               timetable                              delayed by local inter-
development of                                                                                        agency coordination
industrial LMEs                                                                                      problems
3) Re-Training and Re-   3) $1.220 million ($0.9m)
employment                                                                                           Supervision budget
4) Development of Private  4) $1.255 million ($0.9m)                                                    adequate for large number
SMEs                                                                                                 of sub-components and
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ _  intensive  learning



Annex 2 - Page 1
Annex 2
Project Description
Component 1: Restructuring Models for Large and Medium Enterprises
(Cost US$3.67 million, of which Credit US$1.91 million)
This Project component will test various forms of corporate restructuring of medium to large industrial
state enterprises, and develop model approaches on this basis. It will identify appropriate restructuring
methods for selected enterprises, adapt them to local circumstances, help implement them on the ground,
and review progress and issues as implementation proceeds. The resulting lessons will help to identify,
share, and address obstacles in terms of policies, regulations, and knowledge both on the local and
national level. It will also lead to producing model materials for replication and dissemination, such as
model approaches, procedures, contracts, and training materials including case studies. Standards of good
practice for various enterprise transformation methods are expected to emerge and be promoted.
Corporate restructuring will address mainly financial structure, non-viable and non-core
assets/operations, and governance including ownership. Financial restructuring will deal with: The
clarification of actual and contingent liabilities; the assessment of cash flow under different restructuring
options; voluntary debt restructuring and court-led restructuring, including bankruptcy; distress mergers
and acquisitions; and the attraction of equity capital. The reduction of non-viable and non-core assets and
operations will entail: Identification of such operations, their spin-off or sale, or closure and disposal on
an asset basis; recording, appropriate management, and disposal of excess real estate, and (see also
component 3) the use of proceeds to settle financial and social liabilities; and transfer of non-commercial
social activities to municipal organs. Governance improvements will address: The role, accountabilities,
and information of various governance entities (board of directors, management, auditors, municipal
supervisory organs, minority shareholders, etc.); the formation, role and structure of local sectoral
business groups; and often changes in ownership structures towards non-state owners. A number of the
enterprises already now have significant or even majority non-state ownership.
This being the core component of the Project, it will be carried out in all four participating municipalities,
although with local variations. Assistance in considerable depth will be provided to the restructuring and
transformation of three firms in Changsha, five in Wuhan, and six to eight in Shenyang. In Wuhu, the
methods will be tested in depth in a handful of firms, and then replicated with limited assistance in others,
resulting in a total of about 20. In Shenyang and Wuhu, the work on individual restructuring cases will
be accompanied by a review and strengthening of the city's overall enterprise reform strategy.
Approaches to be tested will emerge in part from a study (economic and sector work) on bankruptcy
scheduled for this May/June, and a grant-funded study on non-bankruptcy work-out in the subsequent
months. Moreover, this Project component will be closely coordinated with concurrent Bank assistance
to the resolution of non-performing bank loans, especially to asset management companies that are being
set up at the large state banks. On the local level, creditor representatives need to play an important role
in the work-out progress.
The WBI will help support the sharing of lessons between participating municipalities and with central
authorities, the continuous deepening of knowledge of collaborating local entities, and the broader
dissemination through the development of training materials.
Changsha
To date, the Changsha Municipality has had only limited success in improving the governance of large



Annex 2 - Page 2
and medium-scale enterprises, including through ownership transformation. The obstacles are several
and include poorly focused corporate strategies; processes and procedures for enterprise restructuring that
are cumbersome, complex, and difficult to comply with; and, related to this, limited interest by foreign
investors (in particular foreign joint venture partners). The proposed assistance component would help to
remove such obstacles, and to give coherent direction and process clarity to future restructuring and
transformations. The range of transfornations addressed under this component could include, depending
on furtlher analysis, voluntary work-out, bankruptcy, merger, employee and management buy-outs,
participation of strategic investors, and private placement of capital.
As a first step prior to funding by this Credit, restructuring and transformation strategies will be identified
for ten municipal firms, based on a diagnosis and strategic assessment. These transaction strategies will
be designed to match the strengths and weaknesses, and the opportunities and risks, facing the respective
firm. The strategies will specify the strategic objectives to be achieved; the interests to be conveyed; the
merger partners or investors to be targeted; the liabilities to be assumed by various parties; and the
method for completing the restructuring and transformation.
On this basis, advisors will help implement three such transformations.  Hunan Pharmaceuticals,
Changsha Spinning and Tongda (Water Pumps) Group have been tentatively selected. Preliminary
analysis suggest that the first state enterprise needs extensive downsizing and work-out, the second
mainly financial reorganization, and third mainly corporate adjustments to allow successful ownership
transformation, which in turn should make performance improvements sustainable through better
governance. Success would measured mainly by improvements in cash flow and success in attracting
qualified strategic investors, and should also be reflected in the compensation arrangements of the
consultants. In the process of supporting such reform implementation, the advisors will help develop and
document best-practice methods and procedures that can be followed in future restructuring cases of a
similar type. The advisors would help produce a transaction workbook that would contain all the
documentation, forms, regulations, and standard procedures used to complete the prototype
transformations. In addition, the advisors will recommend new or revised municipal statutes to reduce
the costs and time of the procedures, make the process more transparent and open to competition, and
ensure positive impact on the governance of the enterprises.
Shenyang
International and domestic experts would team up to help the municipal Government assess the results of
a quick-scan review of most of the municipality portfolio of 196 fully or partially state-owned industrial
firms that will be carried out prior to the funding by this Credit. They would pay particular attention to
the trends, prospects and issues of some key industrial subsectors dominated by SOEs. Based on this and
other information, they will review the progress and issues of the city's enterprise reform strategy, and
formulate options to strengthen the strategy. These options would include recommended methods for
financial, operational, and ownership restructuring on the corporate level. Various owner, creditor, and
other key parties should be consulted. A workshop with local and international experts would review the
recommended reform strategy options and methods.
Partly overlapping with this strategy review, three teams of domestic and foreign experts would work on
the ground in Shenyang for 12-18 months each, but intermittently, with the management, owners, and
creditors of up to eight medium to large enterprises on specific challenges that they are facing. In most
cases, the assistance would include an in-depth assessment followed by operational restructuring,
financial restructuring, and the ensuring of sustainability through changes in management and
governance/ownership. The solutions assisted would range from the dissolution of clearly non-viable
firms, on the one extreme, to further strengthening the competitive edge of already strong performing
firms, on the other extreme. Some of the firms have already carried out ownership diversification and
seem to need advice in internal reorganization, management development, and reorientation to new



Annex 2 - Page 3
markets. Success would be measured mainly by improvements in cash flow of the corporations and net
value for owners, within the constraints of safeguarding social security and creditor rights. The attraction
of qualified strategic investors and other non-state equity would be an additional benchmark. The
experiences learnt through these interventions would feed back into the above-mentioned reform strategy
fonmulation, and help identify the type of support and institutions necessary to enable firms to succeed in
the restructuring process and post-reform competition. Good practice would be carefully documented for
replication in other firms. The in-depth assistance would also train the respective managers on the job,
and provide inputs into management training programs.
Wuhan
In Wuhan, advisory teams would work in depth with three large enterprise groups as well as one
prospering and one distressed smaller firm. All these firms are controlled by the Light, Textile and
Chemical State Enterprise Holding Company (LTCSH) of the Municipality, which would be the direct
cotnterpart of the advisors on a day-to-day basis. The three groups under the LTCSH have been
identified as No. 1 Cotton Mill Group, Jiangnan Group, and Bing Chuan Group. The two former groups
have textiles at their core, surrounded by a number of related and unrelated businesses. The third group,
Bing Chuan, is more focused on garments.
The groups would be analyzed by teams of local and international experts as to their financial situation,
cost and revenue structures, competitive position, and management and governance issues. The advisors
would then work directly with the holding, group, and enterprise management to develop a strategy for
the restructuring and reform of each group. Depending on the case, the emphasis would vary between
financial restructuring, reduction of social burdens, streamlining of production, changes in market and
product lines, and so forth. In some of the group subsidiaries, the assistance would be more extensive
and more implementation-oriented than in others. To sustain any gains and to fulfill theLTCSH's net
worth objective, opportunities for improving firms' capitalization, management and governance through
ownership diversification would be explored in each case. This could include merger or sale, initial
offering of shares, outside investments into parts of the business, or spinning-off non-core parts of
enterprises. Individual solutions would be documented as demonstration cases.
Experts will help to restructure also two smaller enterprises. Of these two firms, the promising one would
serve as an upfront case to help the LTCSH develop a fruitful modus operandum with such advisor
teams. The other smaller firm, a highly distressed one, would serve later as a test case for dealing with
such very distressed firms. The consultants working on these two cases would also briefly review some
additional firms of similar size and financial situation, all under the LTCSH, and give sporadic advice on
their application or modification of the approach implemented in the two test cases.
W_hu
Wuhu Municipality controls currently some sixty industrial enterprises. Prior to Credit funding, the
Municipality with some advisory assistance will revisit the overall restructuring strategy that the
Mtnicipality tentatively envisages today. A range of different restructuring actions is currently foreseen
by the Municipality: corporatization or other improvements in state enterprise governance (the main
measure in about 18 firms), relieving enterprise groups of non-core operations (4), disposal of excess real
estate (5), bankruptcy (5), merger or acquisition (20), enterprise sale (8), and public listing (1).
Sustained on-site advisory services will be provided by international and Chinese experts with different
areas of specialization. The experts will be called upon, as required in the course of implementing the
SOE reform program, to assist key professionals and decision-makers in the Wuhu municipality with the
analysis and conduct of practical reorganization and transformation arrangements for selected SOEs. It is
envisaged that that the advisors would get involved in about 20 of the above 60 restructuring cases, and to



Annex 2 - Page 4
different extent depending on the case and its model character. In the process, they will help identify,
elaborate, test and document new or improved restructuring practices. Through their on-site work, they
will also build local capacity to sustain and broaden the implementation of the municipal SOE reform
program.
Funding:
This component will be funded, in addition to this Credit (US$1.91 million), also from the Technical
Cooperation Credit III (US$1.1 million), grant funds (US$0.33 million), and local financing (US$0.33
million).
RelatedA Activities:
Some other activities under the umbrella Assistance Program for Enterprise Reform, but not included in
this Credit-funded Project and its costs, will enhance the impact of this component:
*  A study on bankruptcy will be carried out shortly, followed up in fall by astudy on voluntary work-
out of distressed debtors. These studies would help assess past efforts, identify policy and regulatory
constraints, design potentially suitable insolvency mechanisms, and recommend legal/regulatory and
institutional changes to facilitate such mechanisms. Some of the recommended mechanisms would
then be implemented on a trial basis in the participating cities with funding under this Credit
component.
*  A detailed SOE database on the portfolio of Shenyang Municipality will be established, with
financial, operational and other data collected with advisory guidance from each enterprise through
reports and on-site visits. The results will inform the review of the municipal enterprise reform
strategy. The lessons obtained in collecting and structuring the data, and in using it for policy,
strategic and management purposes, could be useful beyond this city.
* The Bank is supporting a national working group that is developing a policy framework for
turnaround investment funds. Such funds would be professionally managed and funded from capital
markets and portfolio investors. They would purchase significant stakes mainly in distressed
enterprises, partly through the purchase and conversion of debt, and seek to restructure the firms for
capital gain.
3 A review of corporate governance will be undertaken for the Wuhan LTCSH. The LTCSH is an
example of state asset management carried out through a multi-sector holding company. The firms
under the LTCSH are diverse in ownership, legal form, corporate structure, nature of supervision,
formation of sub-groups, etc. Consultants will help analyze the associated practices, results, and
issues, develop recommendations for LTCSH management and the local Economic and Trade
Bureau.
* Technical assistance will be provided on the removal of social assets from SOEs under the LTCSH in
Wuhan. Financially viable assets such as canteens or entertainment facilities can often be sold or
spun off to employees. Educational and health facilities are envisaged to be transferred to local
authorities, but these transfers face issues of municipal funding, user charges and employee access,
capacity rationalization, transition arrangements for management and operation, and so forth. The
experience from the assistance in Wuhan will directly benefit the restructuring of selected LMEs in
this city, be shared with the other three cities, and disseminated beyond.
* Many SOEs have substantial excess assets, in particular urban land use rights and buildings not used
for the core business. The value of these assets tends not to be well reflected in the balance sheets,
and not well captured by distressed firms for satisfying financial and social liabilities. A cornmon
element of many corporate reform cases, and in fact the focus of some of them, will be the
identification, focused management, and value-maximizing disposal of excess assets in SOEs, and the



Annex 2 - Page 5
use of the proceeds. Advisors would help explore alternative policy and institutional arrangements,
such as potentially the use of a recording system, improvements in market-based valuation, the use of
professional asset management, even collateralization and securitization, and proper incentives for
the use of proceeds. Foreign and local experts would further help implementation on a trial basis,
assessment, documentation and, in Wuhu, institution-building for broader application.
The IFC is standing ready to help potentially viable SOEs in the four cities ready themselves for
international investors, search for such investors, and structure transactions. This may entail the
formation of joint ventures, sale of substantial share packages to strategic investors, and support to
public listing. The IFC is drawing in part on its experience in supporting the restructuring and
investor search for two LMEs in Leshan (Sichuan Province).
The Department for International Development of the United Kingdom is preparing on-site assistance for
the restructuring of several LMEs in Shenyang, with an emphasis on financial restructuring and working
at tlne same time with creditor institutions in the city. This support is closely coordinated with the Bank.
Moreover, the Bank is working directly with local and central authorities in restructuring of some of our
industrial sub-borrowers under older Bank Projects, particularly a large machine-building company in
Shenyang and steel plant in Chongqing. Since the Bank is well familiar with these firms, these efforts
could generate valuable further lessons and expertise.
Implementation of the Project component will be coordinated with grant-funded assistance by the Bank to
the policy, regulatory and institutional framework for the resolution of non-performing bank loans
transferred to asset management companies.
Recommendations for legal changes to facilitate corporate restructuring will emerge from the proposed
Project component. They could inforn the policy dialogue and sector work on the national level, as well
as the on-going assistance for legal drafting that continues being provided under the Bank's Legal
Reform Project (FY95).
Component 2: Management Development
(Cost US$1.875 million, of which Credit US$1.30 million)
Management development is an integral part of the Project. Almost all these activities are supported by
WBI.  WBI will organize workshops for enterprise managers and officials in each participating
mtnicipality, as well as centrally at the occasion of regular coordination meetings that bring together their
representatives. The workshops will in part address general enterprise restructuring and management
customized to Chinese circumstances, and in part target specific issues that emerge in the course of the
advisory assistance. Consultants who work in the cities on other components of the Project will
participate in the workshops as resource persons.   In addition, WBI is training trainers of the
participating cities who are accredited to an SETC-led nationwide executive development program. (See
below. Since no costs associated with this training of trainers are funded by the Credit, it is not included
in the Project costs.)
These base activities are supplemented by some additional activities specific to individual cities. In
Wuhu, management training had lagged due to a shortage of training institutions, especially the absence
of a school accredited to SETC's mini-MBA program. The Credit would help train local trainers and
provide some external trainers for a comparable training course for some 150 local managers. Wuhan
will conduct two modes of external training: (i) A highly-structured study tour program with step-wise
se:lection process and accompanied by pre-tour and post-tour training and advisory activities, and (ii)
secondments to foreign-invested firms and potentially firms outside the mainland. In Changsha, the
Project will help pioneer distance learning for management by developing appropriate training materials



Annex 2 - Page 6
and toolkits for enterprise reforn. Changsha will also be assisted in experiments in the search and
recruitment of executives. These city-specific elements are described below.
Changsha
The quality of enterprise management is recognized as a major challenge byChangsha's leadership. The
Project would help develop good practice in the recruitment, assessment, and incentives of enterprise
executives. In this context, it would help identify candidates for executive positions; develop ways to
assess and selet such candidates; and test a new system of managerial performance measurement and
incentives. The efforts would focus on ten demonstration enterprises whose management is considered as
under-performing. The component would involve the engagement of a professional executive search or
human resource management firm to help address the aforementioned issues in these firms. Moreover, a
manual or similar material would be elaborated to facilitate the future recruitment, retention, performance
management, and incentive motivation of top-level managers. The outcome of this assistance would be
measured by an assessment to which extent the new management teams outperform peers in comparable
SOEs in Changsha.
A second sub-component would help pioneer distance learning for management. It would extend
Changsha's existing lead role in distance training into the area of management training. Distance training
could help managers who have difficulties leaving their work for classroom training and facilitate the
rapid multiplication of management training in China The pilot would help define appropriate strategies,
institutional arrangements, technical means, and programs for such distance training, as well as by
providing some of the training materials and "toolkits" for enterprise reform/restructuring. The outcome
of this activity would be measured mainly by the extent of the distance training programs that will be
offered, the number of participating students, and an assessment (mainly by the students) of the quality of
these programs. Later on, the financial viability of the distance training programs could be another
indicator.
Shenyang
In Shenyang, the management training activities under this Project will be limited to the above-mentioned
workshops and training of trainers that will be common to all four cities.
Wuhan
In Wuhan, the Project will support an action-oriented training program to enhance local capacity for
market-oriented enterprise management for implementing enterprise reform and restructuring. Of about
75 trainees, 90 percent of them will be managers, of whom half from SOEs and the other half from
private enterprises; the other 10 percent participants will be officials involved in enterprise reform.
Within both groups of enterprise managers, one third respectively would be experienced top managers
and two thirds would be younger managers with high potential. Participants could be proposed by a large
number of entities in Wuhan but would be subject to a final evaluation and selection process by
independent experts such as the trainers of the classroom training that would precede the tours and
intemships.
Classroom training would be combined with visits to selected foreign-invested firms and firms outside
mainland China. For most participants, this would be highly structured visits to a series of enterprises on
a 3-4 week study tour organized on a subsector basis. Each tour would be organized and accompanied by
an industry expert, in collaboration with industry organizations in the host countries. Other participants
in the program, from among the promising young managers, would be seconded to foreign-invested or
overseas enterprises for an average of about three months. Both the study tours and intermships would be
preceded by classroom training of at least one week. Moreover, after each study tour, participants with



Annex 2 - Page 7
some expert assistance would be obliged to jointly issue a technical report on their findings and help
disseminate the lessons learned at least in Wuhan among their industry peers. The follow-up would
further include the design, testing and adoption of lessons learned by the trainees in their own enterprises,
witln some limited one-on-one advice by foreign experts. Success of this Project sub-component would
be indicated by participants' feedback, the quality of their post-tour dissemination efforts, and by
qualitative assessments of the implementation of acquired knowledge in their enterprises.
Wuhu
Unllike the three other participating municipalities, Wuhu does not have an institute of higher education
thatL offers long-term training in business management, nor a local facility accredited toSETC's "mini-
MEBA" program. The municipal authorities estimate that about 400 candidates below the age of 45 are in
need of such training. The municipal authorities are deternined to create in Wuhu a management training
facility, perhaps in collaboration with an existing institution in another city, to deliver long-term (12-18
months) advanced management training to existing and potential SOE managers and enterprise sector
officials of the municipality. The Project would not fund the establishment of such a facility but would
support its training activities in the start-up year and phase out thereafter. The success of this endeavor
could be measured initially by the number of trainee-months and trainees' rating of the courses, and later
in rapid managerial careers of trainees relative to non-trainees and in improved performance of Wuhu's
enterprise sector.
Funiding:
This component will be funded, in addition to this Credit (US$1.30 million), also from WBI-administered
grants (about US$0.25 million), other grant funds (US$0.10 million), and local financing (US$0.225
mi'llion).
Related Activities:
Closely related to this component, but not included in this Credit project per se, are the following
additional activities of the umbrella Assistance Program for Enterprise Reform:
-  SETC is supervising an executive development program  that is practically mandatory for top
managers of large national SOEs, and attended also by executives of large municipal SOEs. Often
called "Mini-MBA", the program consists of three months of management training at accredited
schools. Under our Assistance Program, WBI is helping to train trainers of this program. WBI's
emphasis is on improving training skills, corporate finance and restructuring topics, and the
program's training materials and case studies. WBI has concentrated initially on accredited schools
that service the four cities that participate directly in our Program. Those cities might also broaden
the program to include more medium-size and private enterprise managers. WBI conducted the first
training-of-trainers course in late 1998 and a second one in March 1999, and is preparing the third to
take place in June 1999.
* The WBI is also supporting SETC in the development of a policy framework for management
training in China. WBI has recently co-sponsored with SETC an International Symposium on
Market-Based Management Training in China in the 21 st Century.
*  In Changsha, the WBI will help carry out three workshops for managers, involving trainers who will
themselves be trained beforehand. Furthermore, secondments will be arranged for local managers in
foreign-invested and overseas companies for periods of three to six months, and foreign managers,
particularly retired executives, will be engaged in local enteprrises for 6-12 months.
In its support for management development, WBI may draw on the experience that the German
government and GTZ have been gaining in management and vocational training in many Chinese cities,



Annex 2 - Page 8
and in distance training in other countries. WBI has also started engaging in partnership activities with
large management training institutions of Siemens and Motorola in China.
Component 3: Re-training and Re-employment
(Cost US$1.22 million, of which Credit US$0.90 million)
Most state-owned enterprises have been vastly overstaffed. They are now in the process of releasing a
very large number of excess employees. The resulting social strains are a critical constraint to the speed
and depth of enterprise reform. Employment service centers have been set up under municipal labor
administrations and also directly under large enterprises and enterprise groups. They absorb most of the
so-called "laid-off' SOE employees for up to three years, during which they provide counseling, job
search assistance and some re-training, channel the payment of social benefits, and permit the individuals
continued access to social services. The re-training services vary widely in quality, extent and targeting
at job opportunities. Widespread is training in basic skills like driving, cooking, and typing, but there are
also courses aimed at new investments such as large hotels or manufacturing plants in the city. In some
places, laid-off people have a choice of retraining opportunities across various facilities in the city,
whereas in others they are more restricted to whatever their own center happens to offer.
The Project would help provide better information and forecasting capability on future employment
opportunities to re-training centers:  It will help to design the inter-connection between existing
information systems of job markets and re-training centers in a city, and potentially also of the social
benefits administrations. Some of the largest employers in town may also be linked directly into this
system. Shenyang envisages to establish information linkages also with neighboring towns and with
more distant towns known for labor shortages. This would help bring together, on a continuous basis,
data on the nature and profile of imminent or future lay-offs, existing and planned job openings, former,
current and prospective trainees, and so forth. The Project will also help determine the need for, and cost
of, software and equipment to implement these connections but it will not fund these purchases. The
system design will be advised by the same experts across the four cities so as to minimize costs. This
Project sub-component should result directly in a sound system design and application programs, and the
implementation and operation of the improved systems. This should lead to an improvement experienced
by labor bureaus and retraining centers in the anticipation of and response to lay-offs and job
opportunities.
The Project will also help review the local strategy for re-training and target it better at long-term areas
for employment growth. Labor market and ETC officials of the municipalities will be exposed to job
growth opportunities particularly in new service industries and service concepts such as franchising
through visits by and to operators of such service organizations in more advanced mainland cities and
abroad. Some re-training centers will also receive training of trainers, advice on their operations, and
improved training materials. Some of this advice will be provided by employment and training specialists
from foreign places that have successfully coped with massive industrial lay-off. Sub-component success
would be measured by trainee feedback, an assessment of impact on retraining skills, techniques and
curricula, and ultimately re-employment rates.
Moreover, the Project will support the provision of training and materials for laid-off people to sta,t up
their own businesses. Such training would address basic business skills such as accounting, assessment
of market opportunities, the development of business plans, business registration, filing of business taxes,
establishment of a bank relationship, contracting employees and premises, and finding business support
services. A standard package of regulatory information, instruction materials, and model contracts
(enterprise charter, basic accounting system, labor contracts, lease contracts, etc.) would also be
assembled. The World Bank and Project-funded advisors could also potentially act as catalysts to bring
various local parties such as banks, business associations, municipal agencies and re-employment/re-



Annex 2 - Page 9
training institutions together to coordinate their support in this particular field. Success would be
measured by trainee numbers and feedback; demand for information packages; business start-up rates
among trainees; and the survival rates of those new businesses.
Changsha
Changsha would use Credit funds for the design of information systems and their inter-linkages as
described above, and for the engagement of local experts to help develop software.
Shenyang
In Shenyang, the inter-connection of labor-related information systems would include also the
establishment of network connections with some neighboring cities, and electronic exchange of
information with more distant areas of relative labor shortage. The Credit would help fund system design
and local software programming. Equipment costs would be funded through a reallocation under the
existing Shenyang Industrial Reform Loan.
Shenyang would also use Credit funds for advice and training regarding re-training and re-employment.
Local and international experts would advise on relevant policies and strategies, institutional
improvements, the targeting of retraining programs, etc. They would also help create awareness and
understanding of emerging service business concepts that hold the potential of extensive employment
generation. Moreover, they would help develop and introduce re-training aimed at helping laid-off people
start their own businesses. All this will be underpinned by workshops on re-training and curriculum
development. Moreover, about 30 trainers of re-training centers will be trained.
Wuhan
Wuhan would not use this Credit in the areas of re-training and re-employment.
_Wuhu
Wuhu would participate in the improvement and inter-connection of information systems on re-training
and re-employment, by funding system design and software programming in part from the Credit.
Funding:
This component will be funded, in addition to this Credit (US$0.90 million), also from  grant funds
(IJS$0.22 million), and local financing (US$0.10 million). The latter figure does not include the costs for
hardware and software purchases to strengthen information systems for re-employment and re-training,
which will funded by the municipalities with own funds (except for the use of an older Bank Loan in the
case of Shenyang).
Related Activities:
Additional activities will come under the umbrella Assistance Program for Enterprise Reform but will not
be funded by this Credit:
* ASEM grant funding will be used for technical assistance to the transfer of social assets from
enterprises under Wuhan's LTCSH to municipal administrations. One model case will be a large
enterprise-operated school. Other model cases, in healthcare, will be supported by another ASEM
grant against the background of a broader review of the municipality's policy for health sector
restructuring. Results will be shared with the other municipalities.



Annex 2 - Page 10
*  In Changsha, an ASEM grant will help to develop a strategy for a more market-oriented system of re-
training programs and institutions.
*  A PH-IRD grant would help prepare a potential Loan to support micro credit mainly for business start-
ups to help absorb laid-off workers. Such a Loan could also facilitate the access to support services
for the establishment of businesses by, and for, laid-off workers.
An empirical study on re-training and re-employment is about to be carried out in Shenyang, Wuhan, and
Shanghai.
A LIL for pension reform has been appraised. It would address the pooling of pension systems beyond
local and sector boundaries, and thus deal with a key social issue related to enterprise reform.
An older Bank project on housing reform is under implementation.
Component 4: Development of Private SMEs
(Cost US$1.255 million, of which Credit US$0.89 million)
China's leadership has increasingly been acknowledging private SMEs as a key source for employment
growth but lacking in public support. The role of the private sector in China's socialist market economy
has recently also been reflected in a constitutional amendment. The development of private SMEs has
hitherto been hindered, however, by a plethora of local financial charges, uncertainty about their role and
rights, and discriminating effects of public allocation mechanisms. While efforts are now underway to
reduce these obstacles, local authorities lack experience in assessing such obstacles, creating a conducive
environment, and re-defining the policy and regulatory roles of the local government. The Project would
help pioneer such policy analysis and adjustments in Shenyang. Moreover, municipalities beyond the
coastal areas still have little familiarity with SME support programs. The Project would help test ways to
give SMEs, including newly privatized ones, better access to business support services through a business
advisory entity (in Wuhu) and a matching grant mechanism (in Shenyang).
Municipalities have already been transferring a large number of their small and medium SOEs to the
private sector. However, this has often not involved proper market-based valuations or competition,
transparency and openness, and post-sale support. The national leadership has been admonishing local
authorities to not just sell SME without regard for proper process, attention to post-sale governance and
support, credit rights, and social obligations re retired, laid-off or long unpaid workers. The Project will
help Changsha in defining a strategy and testing approaches for SME ownership transformation, and
Shenyang in refining and broadening its already actively utilized strategy and institutional capabilities in
this field.
Changsha
In Changsha, the transfer of small and medium SOEs to the private sector has been slow to date, and
involved in practically all cases the sale to the employees aftercorporatization. The Project would help
develop a strategy to deepen the ownership transfer of small enterprises, and the spin-off of small-scale
operating branches of larger enterprises, to the private sector by addressing key obstacles and weaknesses
of hitherto prevailing practices. The output would also include recommendations on adjusting local
regulations, and some limited follow-up advice on arranging and monitoring the implementation of the
city's strategy. The objectives would be to reduce the burden of the municipality and districts of
controlling these firms, improve their governance, and attract some capital and expertise. New methods
and processes, to be assessed and customized under the Project, could include more market-based
valuations, competitive sales, wide advertisement, etc. Particular attention would be paid to mechanisms



Annex 2 - Page 11
in the case of buyers with limited purchasing power, which would address inter-related issues such as:
Purchase with installments, credit, or grant elements; related security arrangements; governance of the
municipality's residual ownership or collateral rights in the transition period; and operational control and
its legal basis (lease, contract management, employment contract, etc.) in the transition period. The
resuLlts might serve as models beyond Changsha for such ownership transfers to buyers with limited
purchasing power. Success of the pilot efforts would be measured, besides quantity, also by the quality
of transactions in terms of lawful, transparent and efficient process, safeguarding of employee and credit
rights, and improvements in enterprise perforrnance.
Shenyang
Shenyang already has a very active and well run Property Rights Transaction Center that has enjoyed
substantial support by the Shenyang Industrial Reform Loan. As the pace of enterprise reform
accelerates, local expertise grows, and the challenges evolve, this Center is expanding its capabilities to
handle an increasing range of business. This includes, for example, valuation and advice in enterprise
mergers, one-stop service for approvals needed by buyers of enterprises, and the auctioning of excess
assets. The Credit would help the Center in designing improved information systems for asset valuation,
property transactions, policy and regulations database, and some other functions. It would also support
the design of a Website to make objects on offer as well as regulatory information publicly available on-
line. The resulting systems could serve as models for other cities in China.
The Project would also help to develop assistance to recent buyers of local SMEs, especially immediately
after the purchase. An assistance kit of materials including regulations, labor and lease model contract
forms, model company charters, advisory notes on legal conversions and corporate restructuring, address
lists of advisory businesses like accountants, lawyers, and advertising specialists, and materials on
financing programs would be put together and tested. In addition, a set of training and brief one-on-one
advice could be provided on a pilot basis to recent purchasers of SOEs, with regard to completion of the
transactions, contracting with suppliers, banks, employees, etc., adjustments in accounting, relevant
regulations, market research and marketing, etc.
Shenyang would use international and national experts to help conduct a study of the competitive
environment for SMEs in the city, appropriate roles of the municipal government in SME development
(i.e., economic monitoring, business education, business development services); and the roles of key
municipal agencies involved in this effort. Consultants would further help prepare the implementation of
some recommendations emerging from this study. This is expected to include, inter alia, the design of a
matching grant program for the use of business support services by SMEs. Such a program would
involve the review, training, and accreditation of qualified accountants, lawyers, business consultants,
market researchers, etc.; review of firms for eligibility; and co-financing of their engagement of such
support services to a certain percentage with grant or tax advantages. If successful in terms of demand,
service quality, cost effectiveness and, ultimately, performance impact such a system could be multiplied
in other cities, and potentially also applied under a future micro credit project.
More broadly, the municipal authorities wish to revisit their role, organization, and policy instruments in
monitoring and supporting industrial sector performance in the new environment with increasingly
autonomous and private or foreign-owned enterprises. The Project would support this by transferring
knowledge (through visiting experts, translation of relevant studies, and potentially study visits) about
other countries' practices.
WVuhu
Wuhu intends to use on-site advisory services for the organization and start-up of a business advisory
services entity that would target assistance to SMEs to restructure their firms, further transform



Annex 2 - Page 12
ownership or legal form of the firms, and improve business operations. Through subcontracting, referral,
good-practice examples, and training of professionals the entity would also contribute to the development
of local service businesses like legal, accounting, market research, and similar firms; it should become an
incubator for local consulting industry. Success of this activity could be judged by the volume of services
provided, their usefulness in the views of the beneficiaries (expressed through feedback and willingness
to share costs), the cost effectiveness of the services and, ultimately, the performance of the recipient
enterprise relative to non-recipients.
Funding:
This component will be funded, in addition to this Credit (US$0.89 million), also from grant funds
(US$0.22 million), and local financing (US$0.145 million).
Related Activities:
*  In preparation of a potential operation in support of micro credit to help absorb laid-off workers,
studies will be carried out on financing and advisory support mechanisms for micro enterprises.
They will review the financing patterns and needs of micro enterprises, and identify and
conceptualize appropriate terms, guarantees and institutional arrangements for financial
intermediation of micro credit.
*  The IFC and Bank plan to carry out research on private sector development and on SME
development. The various findings and recommendations would be presented at a joint conference
and documented in ajoint conference report.
*  The existing Shenyang Industrial Reform Loan will finance the upgrading of hardware and intranet
software of Shenyang's Property Rights Transaction Center.
*  Shenyang's Property Rights Transaction Center will use grant funds to obtain advice and training on
transaction models for the ownership transformation of SMEs. This will include advice on
transaction methods and the investment banking aspects of such transactions, and local as well as
overseas training. Grant funds would also help share the Shenyang experience beyond the city.
*  Shenyang will also use advisory services for the transformation of collectively-owned SMEs in the
city into more concentrated forms of ownership like today's "private enterprises" and, after imminent
new legislation, private partnerships and sole proprietorships.
The above activities will be coordinated with advisory services for legal drafting that continue being
provided under the Economic Legislation Reform Project (FY95).
The United Kingdom's DFID will provide, in close coordination with the Bank, various forms of
additional support to the development of private SMEs in Shenyang. The German authorities are
preparing, in liaison with the Bank, supplementary support for SME development in the two provinces,
including the cities of Wuhan and Wuhu.



Annex 2 - Page 13
Summary of Project Components
(in US$ 1,000)
Munici-                      Sub-Component                         Credit      Co-       Local       Total
pality                                                            (LIL)      Finan-    Contri-
cing      buton
Restructuring Models for LargelMedium Enterprises
Changsha   Model methods for LME transformation                         700        300        100        1,100
Shenyang   Review of enterprise reform strategy                         100          -         10         110
Restructuring and reform of selected LMEs                   510        330        100         940
Wuhan      Restructuring and reform of selected LMEs                   250         350         70         670
Wuhu       Restructuring and reform of selected LMEs                    350        450         50         850
Management Development
Changsha   Development of distance training and toolkits                 50        100         15         165
Executive recruitment and development                       150           -        10          160
Shenyang
Wuhan      Secondments & study visits for mangers/officials             800        100        100        1,000
'uhu       Training courses for managers/officials                      300        150        100         550
Re-training and Re-employment
Changsha   Connecting info.networks for re-training/re-employ.          150          -         10         160
Shenyang   Connecting info networks for re-training/re-employm          100         30         50         180
Advise and training re re-training/re-employment            300        150         20         470
Wuhan
Wuhu       Connecting info networks for re-training/re-employ.          350         40         20         410
Development of Private Small & Medium Enterprises
Changsha   Ownership transformation of SMEs                             100          -         20         120
Shenyang   Enhancing the Property Rights Transaction Center             140         40         50         190
Advice on industrial policy and info. Dissemination         100        100         10         210
Creation of condusive environment for SMEs                  170         70         10         250
Post-privatization assistance for SMEs                      130           -         5          135
WVuhan -
WVuhu      Advisory services for SME transform. and operation           250         50         50         350
Note: This table includes only activities that will be funded at least in part from this Credit.



Annex 3 - Page 1
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
iroject AConipo t                                         Local,          Foe7g 7       Thta7
1. Restructuring Models for Large/Medium Enterprises          0.80            2.87         3.67
2. Management Development                                     0.475           1.40          1.875
3. Re-training and Re-Employment                              0.37            0.85          1.22
4. Development of Private SMEs                                0.375           0.88          1.255
Total Baseline Cost                                           2.02            6.00          8.02
Physical Contingencies                                      0.00           0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                         0.03           0.09          0.12
Total Project Cost                                            2.05            6.09          8.14



Annex 4 - Page 1
Annex 4
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(Not Applicable)






Annex 5 - Page 1
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ million)
Implementation Period
199      2000     2001       202
Project Costs
Investment Costs                          4.90      3.12
Recurrent Costs
Total                                   4.90      3.12
Financing Sources
IDA Credit (LIL)                          3.00      2.00
Local Governments /a                      0.50      0.30
Co-Financing /b                           1.40      0.82
Total                                   4.90      3.12
Main Assumptions:
/a Local government financing includes funds from various sources at the municipal level.
/b Includes Special PHRD grant for Corporate Restructuring; ASEM grant for Social Dimensions of
Enterprise Reform; grants executed by the WBI; part of the Technical Cooperation Credit III.



Annex 6 - Page 1
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
General Procurement Arrangements
General procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 6, Table A. The Project does not involve
the procurement of goods and civil works. Procurement of consulting services will be based on the Bank
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants, dated January 1997 and revised in September
1997 and January 1999. The Standard Request for Proposals, dated April 1997 and revised in April
1998, will be used for complex consultant assignments.  Applicable sample contracts for small
assignments will be used for consultant assignments and training contracts not exceeding US$ 1 00,000.
Procurement Items and Methods
ConsultEmt services account for US$5.57 million of the project base costs. Thereof US$3.15 million will
be funded by the Credit. The services are expected to be provided by consulting firmns as well as
individual consultants. In general, 'Quality and Cost-Based Selection' (QCBS) procedures will be used,
except for some selections based on 'Consultant Qualifications' (CQ) or Single-Source Selection in the
case of assignments not exceeding US$100,000, and except for selections of individual consultants as
per Sect:ion V of the Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants.
All consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more would be advertised
in a national newspaper and in Development Business seeking expressions of interest. In addition, the
contracts may be advertised in an international newspaper or a technical magazine. Consultants services
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 may be contracted by comparing the
qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest in the assignment or who have been
identified. A draft General Procurement Notice will be prepared for the Project and finalized and
published in Development Business after Project approval. The General Procurement Notice would be
regularly updated. It would show all outstanding international consulting assignments.
The Project includes a large number of training activities under all four Project components. These are
mostly workshops, seminars and conferences, longer training courses, and selected study tours. Under
the Management Development component, carefully selected groups enterprise managers from Wuhan
will participate on an experimental basis in highly structured study tours andsecondments in mainland
China, tlhe Hongkong SAR, and potentially, overseas. The Credit will provide US$1.85 million to the
base costs of these various training activities.
Review ofDocuments and Contracts
All consultant contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or more for individuals and US$100,000 equivalent or
more for firms will be subject to prior review by the World Bank. Moreover, in the case of Changsha,
Wuhan and Wuhu, the first five contracts of each participating municipality with an individual consultant,
and the first five contracts of each participating municipality with a consulting firm, as well as all terms
of reference, will be subject to prior review by the World Bank. In the case of Shenyang, whose PMO
has substantial prior experience in procurement under Bank projects, the first three contracts with an
individual consultant and the first three contracts with a consulting firm, as well as all terms of reference,
will be subject to prior review by the World Bank. All other contracts will be subject to selective ex post
review by the World Bank during project supervision.



Annex 6 - Page 2
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                            Procurement Mthod-                        Total Cost kc
ICB           NCB           Other /a  N.B.F /b
1. Works
2. Goods                                -             -           -              -             -
3. Services                             -             -          3.15           2.335          5.575
(3.15)         (0.00)        (3.15)
4. Training and Study Tours             -             -          1.72           0.685          2.565
(1.72)         (0.00)        (1.85)
Total                                -              -          5.00           3.02          8.14
(5.00)         (0.00)        (5.00)
a/ Other procurement methods include procurement of consultant services and training including study tours.
b/ N.B.F. denotes non-Bank financed, as well as items that may be funded by the Technical Cooperation Credit III and
procured under procedures and review thresholds applicable to that Credit.
c/ Total cost includes contingencies.
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by this IDA Credit.
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Consultant Services                                 Selectiou Method /a                                TotalCost
Expenditure Category               E       
QCBS  QBS   SFB   LCS   CQ   Other  N.B /b
A. Firms                        1.95       -          -         -       0.57      0.28         1.70           4.57
(1.95)                                  (0.57)   (0.28)       (0.00)          (2.80)
B. Individuals                   -         -          -         -         -       0.35        0.635          1.005
(0.35)      (0.00)         (0.35)
Total                       1.95        -         -         -       0.57      0.63        2.335          5.575
(1.95)                                  (0.57)   (0.63)       (0.00)          (3.15)
/a  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; QBS  Quality-based Selection; SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget; LCS =
Least-Cost Selection; CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; Other = Selection of individual consultants (per
Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Single-Source Selection, Commercial Practices, etc
/b  N.B.F = N.B.F. denotes non-Bank financed, as well as items that may be funded by the Technical Cooperation Credit lll and
procured under procedures and review thresholds applicable to that Credit.
/c  Including contingencies.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by this IDA Credit.



Annex 6 - Page 3
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Consultants
Firms          100 or more           QCBS             All                1.95
<100                  CQ or            /b                0.30
Single-Source       /b                0.10
Selection
Inclividuals    50 or more         Selection of       All                0.05
Individual
Consultants
<50                    Ditto           /c                0.15
TOTAL                                                                     2.55
/a Including contingencies.
lb The first three contracts of Shenyang, and the first five contracts of each other participating city, with consulting firms will
be subject to prior review, as will be all terms of reference.
c/ The first three contracts of Shenyang, and the first five contracts of each other participating city, with individual consultants
will be subject to prior review, as will be all terms of reference.
Training
Training including study tours and secondments, within the country and abroad, would be carried out on
the basis of IDA approved programs which would identify the nature of training, persons to be trained,
institutions where training would be conducted, estimated cost of training, etc. Such programs would be
submitted to IDA for review and clearance every six months.
Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
Procurement under the Project would be overseen by the PMOs. The PMOs will be expected to prepare
and update the procurement plan and training plan for the relevant Project sub-components, and monitor
the progress of procurement. The PMOs will are also expected to ascertain consistency of procurement
actions with relevant Bank guidelines, and to assist procurement actions by the respective municipal
executing agencies in the Project activity. In Changsha, the procurement actions will be carried out by
the PMO and, for one component, the Labor Bureau. In Wuhan, procurement will be handled by the
PMO for one component and by an executing entity for the other. In Wuhu, procurement will be the
responsibility of one main executing agency. In Shenyang, five entities will execute procurement actions.
The procurement capacity of the PMOs has been assessed by Bank staff upon appraisal. The PMO and
implementing agencies of Shenyang have significant prior experience in procurement under Bank
projects, including the on-going Shenyang Industrial Reform Project. Wuhan's PMO has some limited
prior exposure to Bank procurement procedures. The other parties that will engage in procurement
activities under this Credit have no such prior experience. Initial procurement training has been provided
to the PMOs in March 1999, and a training workshop for the agencips carrying out procurement under the
Project took place in early May. This is envisaged to be deepened by additional training once these
agencies have obtained some initial practice in procurement. Applicable guidelines as well as standard
and sample procurement documents have been made available to all these agencies. Procurement advice
would be engaged by the PMOs as required, and funded by the participating municipalities.



Annex 6 - Page 4
Procurement Plan
A procurement plan has been prepared by the Borrower (see Table BI). It includes relevant information
on all major and initial contracts under the Project, as well as the timing of key milestones in the related
procurement process. The procurement schedule would be updated every six months and submitted to
the Association.



Annex 6 - Page 5
Annex 6, Table BI: Procurement Plan
a    Model Transfonnation Strategy for Firm I                Changsha        PMO            QCBS            5/99          8/99        10/99       11/99      11/99
Ditto for Firm 2                                                                       QCBS           5/99           8/99        10/99      12/99       12/00
Ditto for Firm 3                                                                       QCBS           5/99           8/99        10/99      12/99       1/00
Accounting consultant for transformation cases 1-2 or 1-3                               CQ              -            8/99        10/99       11/99      11/99
Legal consultant for transformation cases 1-2 or 1-3                                Indiv. Cons.        -             -          10/99       11/99      11/99
b    Review of Enterprise Reform Strategy -- International consult.   Shenyang  ETC       Indiv. Cons.       -             -           5/99       6/99       6/99
I                                                                                     Or CQ
Ditto - International consultants 2                                                     CQ              -            5/99        6/99        7/99       7/99
Ditto - National consultant I                                                       Indiv. Cons.        -            5/99        6/99        7/99       7/99
c    Restructuring & Reform of LMEs -- Firm I                Shenyang         ETC            CQ              -            6/99         7/99       8/99       8/99
Ditto - Firms 2-5                                                                      QCBS           7/99           9/99        10/99       11/99      12/99
Ditto - Firms 6-8                                                                      QCBS           7/99          9/99         11/99      12/99       1/00
Ditto - Accounting experts                                                              CQ              -            6/99        7/99        7/99       8/99
Ditto - Legal experts                                                               Indiv. Cons.        -            6/99         799        7/99       8/99
Ditto - Other national consultant                                                   Indiv. Cons.        -             -          7/99        8/99       8/99
d    Restructuring & Reforn of Groups I + 2 (Phase 1)         Wuhan         LTCSH            CQ              -            10/99       11/99       11/99      12/99
Ditto - Group 3                                                                        QCBS           12/99         2/00         3/00        3/00       4/99
Ditto - one promising mid-size firmn                                                    CQ              -            6/00         7/00       8/00       9/00
Ditto - Groups I + 2 (Phase 11)                                                        QCBS           6/00           8/00        9/00        9/00       10/00
Restructuring of one distressed firm"                                                   CQ              -            9/00        10/00       11/00      12/00
e    Restructuring & Reform of Selected Firms -- Group 1 (2 pilots)  Wuhu     ETC        Single-Source       -             -           4/99       5/99        5/99
Ditto - Group 2(2-3 enterprises)                                                        CQ              -            8/99        10/99      11/99       11/99
Ditto - Group 3 (2-3 enterprises)                                                       CQ              -           10/99        12/99       1/00       1/00
Ditto - Group 4 (2-3 enterprises)                                                       CQ              -           12/99        2/00        3/00       3/00
Ditto - Group 5 (2-3 enterprises)                                                      QCBS           12/99          2/00         4/00       5/00       5/00
Ditto - Group 6 (2-3 enterprises)                                                      QCBS           2/00          4/00         6/00        7/00       7/00
a.   Development of Distance Training -- international consultants I   Changsha  PMO     Single-source       -             -           6/99       7/99       8/99
Ditto -- international consultants 2                                                    CQ              -            7/99        9/99        10/99      11/99
Ditto - national consultants I                                                      Indiv. Cons.        -             -          6/99        7/99       8/99
Ditto - national consultants 2                                                      Single-source       -             -          6/99        7/99       8/99
Ditto - national consultants 3                                                          CQ              -            7/99         9/99      10/99       11/99
Executive Recruitment & Development                     Changsha        PMO             CQ              -           6/99         8/99        9/99       10/99
b.   Subsector expert for workshops & study tour -- group I   Wuhan          PMO          Indiv.Cons.        -            6/99         8/99       9/99       10/99
Ditto --group 2                                                                         CQ              -           11/99        12/99      12/99       1/00
Ditto -- group 3                                                                        CQ              -            2/00        3/00        3/00       4/00
Ditto -- group 4                                                                        CQ              -           6/00         7/00        7/00       8/00
c.   Delivery of training of managers & officials --Resource person  Wuhu     ETC         Indiv. Cons.       -             -           8/99       i0/99      10/99
Ditto --Resource person 2                                                           Indiv. Cons.        -             -          8/99       10/99       10/99
Ditto--Resource person 3                                                            Indiv. Cons.        -             -          9/99       11/99       11/99
Ditto --Resource person 4                                                           Indiv. Cons.        -             -          10/99      12/99       1/00



Annex 6 - Page 6
Assignment                       Municipalit    Execution of    Procurement   Notificationl    Request for  Evaluation   Contract    Consul-
y        Procurement       Method     for Expression    Proposals   Completed    A-yard   tants Start
of Interest
3.   R&fTraining and Re-Enployment
a    Connecting Info Networks for Retraining/Reemploy.-- Design    Changsha    Labor Bureau   Single-source  -             -           6/99       7/99        8/99
Ditto -- Software development                                                           CQ              -           8/99         8/99        9/99       10/99
b    Connecting Info Networks for Retraining/Reemploy.-- Design    Shenyang    Labor Bureau    Single-source  -            -           6/99       6/99        7/99
Ditto -- Software development                              '.             "             CQ              -            8/99        8/99        9/99       9/99
c    Advice on Re-employment/Retraining -- Consultants I     Shenyang    Labor Bureau    Single-source       -            5/99         6/99       6/99        7/99
Ditto -- Consultants 2                                     i                            CQ              -             -          7/99        7/99       7/99
Curriculum Development for Retraining                                     "             CQ              -             -          9/99       11/99       11/99
d.   Design of Integrated Info System and related Training     Wuhu         ETC [tbdl        CQ              -            10/99       12/99       1/00        2/00
4.   fJvelopment of Small and Medium Enterprises
a    Strategy for Ownership Transfornation -- International expert I   Changsha  PMO      Indiv. Cons.       -             -           6/99       7/99        7/99
Ditto -- International expert 2                                                      n" div. Cons.      -             -          7/99        8/99       9/99
Ditto - National expert I                                  "                         Indiv. Cons.       -             -          6/99        7/99       7/99
Ditto - National expert 2                                  "                         Indiv. Cons.       -             -          8/99        8/99       9/99
b    Property Rights Transaction Center -- Advice on information  Shenyang    Property Rights  Single-source  -            -           5/99       6/99        6/99
networks/intranet                                                   Transact. Center
Ditto -- Advice on use of Internet for transactions        "              "         Single-source       -             -          6/99        7/99       8/99
c    Industrial Policy Support & Information -- Consultant I  Shenyang        ETC         Indiv. Cons.       -             -           8/99       9/99        9/99
Ditto --Consultant 2                                               "                 Indiv. Cons.       -             -          8/99        9/99        999
Ditto -- Consultant 3                                                                Indiv. Cons.       -             -          10/99      11/99       11/99
d    Study on Business Environment for SMEs                  Shenyang      ETC [tbd.]       QCBS            6/99          8/99        10/99       11/99      11/99
Ditto -- National expert I                                                           Indiv. Cons.       -            9/99        10/99      11/99       11/99
Ditto - National expert 2                                                 "          Indiv. Cons.       -            9/99        10/99      11/99       11/99
e    Toolkits for New Business Owners - International Expert  Shenyang      ETC [tbd]     Indiv. Cons.       -            8/99         9/99       9/99        9/99
Ditto - National expert I                                                            Indiv. Cons.       -            7/99        8/99        8/99       8/99
Ditto - National expert 2                                                            Indiv. Cons.       -             -          9/99        9/99       9/99
f.   SME Business Advisory Center -- Advisor on "matchmaking"  Wuhu           ETC         Indiv. Cons.       -            6/99         8/99       8/99        9/99
Ditto -- advisor on marketing and market information       "n" Idiv. Cons.                              -             -          8/99        9/99       10/99
Ditto -- advisor on marketing                                                        Indiv. Cons.       -             -          8/99        9/99       10/99
Ditto - advisor on operational management and productivity               n" div. Cons.                  -             -          8/99        9/99       10/99
Ditto - advisor on linkages with multi-national firms                                Indiv. Cons.       -             -          8/99        9/99       10/99
/a For very small contracts (up to US$100,000 equivalent), the table shows mainly those planned to have procurement actions in the first six months after effectiveness.



Annex 6 - Page 7
Disbursement
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
The total US$5.0 million equivalent from the International Development Association will be allocated to
the Project components as follows: US$1.91 million for the Restructuring of Large/Medium Enterprises,
US$1.30 million for Management Development, US$0.90 million for Re-training and Re-employment,
and US$0.89 for the Development of Private Small and Medium Enterprises.
Disbursement will be made against the following categories of expenditures: (i) for consulting services,
100% of all expenditures, and (ii) training including study tours and secondments, 100% of expenditures
(see also Table C).
The total implementation period of the Project is 31 months (July 1999 - December 2001). The closing
date will be June 30, 2002.
Retroactive financing can be made up to a maximum SDR370,000 equivalent, or 10% of the Credit
amount. The eligible expenditures for retroactive financing should be incurred after May 1, 1999.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
;0000Expenditur Ct00000           9      fzegory  ;00 f  > CredX l-it Amout in  Financ:ingPretg
(1) Changsha                                          1.15            100%
Consultant Services                                   1.02            100%
Training                                              0.13            100%
(2) Shenyang                                          1.55
Consultant Services                                   1.15            100%
Training                                              0.40            100%
(3) Wuhan                                             1.05
Consultant Services                                   0.25            100%
Training                                              0.80            100%
(4) Wuhu                                              1.25
Consultant Services                                   0.73            100%
Training                                              0.52            100%
Total                                              5.00
Use of Statements of Expenses:
Withdrawal applications will be fully documented for all expenditures against which Credit
disbursements will be made. Statement of Expenditures will be used for disbursements against: (i)
consultant services costing less than US$100,000 equivalent in the case of firms, other than the first three
contracts awarded to firms in Shenyang and the first five contracts awarded to firms in each of Changsha,
Wuhan and Wuhu, and consultant services costing less than US$50,000 equivalent in the case of



Annex 6 - Page 8
individual consultants, other than the first three contracts awarded to individuals inShenyang and the first
five contracts awarded to individuals in each of Changsha, Wuhan and Wuhu; and (ii) training including
study tour and secondment expenses. Supporting documents for Statements of Expenditures would be
retained by the PMOs as well as the local Bureaus of Finance, and made available for review by the
Association and external auditors. In the case of contracts for goods and services above these thresholds,
disbursement would be made against the full documentation of the contracts themselves and other
supporting documents.
Special Accounts:
Four Special Accounts will be established for the Project. The provincial Bureaus of Finance of the four
provinces where the participating cities are located (Hunan, Liaoning, Hubei and Anhui) will each
manage and monitor one Special Account. The Special Accounts will be established in bank accounts
acceptable to the Association. The authorized allocation for the Special Account of Changsha will be
US$115,000 equivalent, for the Special Account of Shenyang US$155,000 equivalent, the Special
Account of Wuhan US$105,000 equivalent, and the Special Account of Wuhu US$125,000 equivalent.
Applications for replenishment, supported by appropriate documentation, will be submitted by these
Bureaus of Finance monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the initial deposits, whichever
comes first.
Financial Managemen
Disbursements and Supporting Documentation:
The claims for the Bank funds will be made by the PMOs and reviewed by the respective municipal
Financial Bureau. The disbursement materials will be passed to the respective provincial Finance Bureau
for review and final approval. Accordingly, funds will be transferred from the provincial level to the
municipal level and to the executing agencies. The original supporting documentation will be maintained
at the point of initiation, such as executing agencies. Copies will be reviewed and maintained at both the
PMO and the Finance Bureau of the municipality.
Internal and Other Controls:
A simplified Project Financial Management Systems Manual (the Manual) is being jointly prepared by
the Municipalities and will be finalized by June 30, 1999. A template of the Manual and an outline of the
topics to be addressed in the scope of the Manual have been provided to the PMOs for tailoring to the
specifics of the Project. The topics have been simplified to reflect the size and complexity of the Project.
An initial draft version has been discussed with the Resident Mission in China upon appraisal, a revised
draft has been submitted to the Association by Jun 15, and the Manual will be finalized by June 30, 1999.
The accounts and reports of the Project are required to be set up in accordance with the existing Ministry
of Fnance accounting standards: Circular No. 6: "Temporary Regulations on Accounting and Reporting
for Projects Financed by the World Bank"; and Circular No. 127: "Temporary Regulations on Financial
and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the World Bank".
Project Accounting Standards, Financial and Management Reporting:
The accounts will be prepared in accordance with the Circulars and adhere to the respective laws and
standards noted above. An accrual-based accounting system and double entry bookkeeping methods will
be utilized in line with Chinese accounting standards.
Clearance has been received from MOF on a standard set of project financial statements which will be



Annex 6 - Page 9
utilized by this Project. In terms of reporting cycle, the project reporting package will be submitted to the
Bank semi-annually, commencing by March 15, 2000, in a project consolidated form, and include the
following:(i) Balance Sheet; (ii) Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component; (iii) Statement of
Implementation of Credit Agreement; and (iv) Special Account Reconciliation. Each of the four
municipalities, Changsha, Shenyang, Wuhan and Wuhu, will separately prepare financial statements for
its activities. SETC will be responsible for preparing the consolidated project financial statements semi-
annually.
Staffing and Training:
Project accounting responsibilities are to be handled at the municipal level. Three of the four municipal
PMOs (Changsha, Wuhan and Wuhu) have no previous experience with financial management under
Bank financed projects. Experienced and licensed accountants have been engaged by all four municipal
PMOs. Training on project accounting, project reporting including the newly revised project financial
statement formats, Bank fund withdrawal procedures, and project audit requirements has been conducted
for the PMOs, Finance Bureaus and some of the participating executing agencies for a total of two and a
half days. Additional training involving also the local audit offices and further executing agencies will be
provided.
Audit Arrangements:
Under the authorization of the National Audit Office, the provincial Audit Bureaus will conduct audits on
the PMOs and the participating agencies and will separately issue the auditor's reports. No audit report
will be rendered on the consolidated project financial statements. The audit reports will be scheduled for
submission to the Bank within 6 months after the end of the calendar year. Auditing guidelines
documented in the EAP Regional Audit Manual were jointly prepared by PricewaterhouseCoopers and
the EAP Region. A training course on the Audit Manual was provided to the National Audit Office in
August 1998 by PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Schedule ofActions.
The Financial Management Systems Manual has been drafted jointly by the four participating cities, with
Shenyang taking the lead. The Manual will be finalized by June 30, 1999.
Further training in financial management will be provided to the relevant municipal and provincial entities.



Annex 7 - Page 1
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                               Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Identification to Pre-appraisal               US$255,000           US$240,000
Appraisal to Approval                          US$56,000           US$ 75,000
Total                                       US$311,000           US$315,000
Preparation Assistance: Two PHRD grants with total US$710,000
B. Project ScIedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         9                    9
First Bank mission (identification)            6/28/1998            6/28/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    4/17/1999             5/5/1999
Negotiations                                   5/10/1999            5/14/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  6/15/1999            7/26/1999
Prepared by: State Economic and Trade Commission, Ministry of Finance, IDA
C. Bak saff who worked on the Projec in-lude:
Name                           -     -    alt
Klaus Lorch, EASPS                       SOE Reform and PSD (Task Team Leader)
Shenhua Wang, EACCF                      SOE Reform and PSD (Deputy Team Leader)
Loup Brefort, PSDDR                      Corporate Restructuring
Amanda Carlier, EASPS                    Private Sector Development
Fang Chen, EACCF                         Disbursement Specialist
Nancy Chen, EAPCO                        Financial Management
Junxue Chu, EACCF                        Disbursement Specialist
Gary Fine, EASPS                         SOE Reform and Capital Markets
Clifford Garstang, LEGEA                 Country Lawyer
Lily Hale, EASPS                         Operations Officer
Albert Keidel, EACCF                     Economic Dimensions of SOE Reform
Hyung Min Kim, LOAAS                     Disbursement Officer
Ron Kopicki, PSDPS                       Enterprise Govemance
Sheng Li, EACCF (WBI)                    Management Development
Marilene Montemayor, EASPS               Program Assistant
John Nellis, PSD                         Peer Review
Richard Newfarmer, EASPR                 Peer Review
Roy Pepper, PSD                          Peer Review
Dirk Petersen, EASPS                      Social Dimensions of SOE Reform
Djordjija Petkoski, WBI                  Management Development
Katie Shaw, EASPS                        Program Assistant
Shinan Shi, EACCF                        Procurement Officer
Yan Wang, EACCF                          Team Assistant
Maggie Zhou, IFC                          SOE Reform



Annex 8 - Page 1
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan (May 1999)
Procurement Plan (May 1999)
Training Plan (parts)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoires
Concept Summary submitted to Borrower (November 1998)
Review of Financial Management System (April 1999)
Procurement Capacity Assessment (May 1999)
Assessment for PMR-Based Disbursements (May 1999)
C. Other
Summary data on participating municipalities (July 1998)
Data on enterprises proposed for restructuring assistance (November 1998)
Draft of Terms of Reference for most consultant assignments, except very small contracts
Organization charts and personnel lists of Steering Groups and PMOs (May 1999)
Founding documents of the four municipal PMOs
Resumes of accounting specialists engaged by the four municipal PMOs (May 1999)
* Including electronic files.



Annex 9 - Page 1
Annex 9
Statement of Bank Group Operations in China
I. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(As of June 21, 1999)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 105
Active Projects
CN-PE-3653       1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          CONTAINER TRANSPORT                     71.00        0.00        0.00             71.00         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-36953      1999  PRC                              HEALTH IX                                 10.00       50.00        0.00             59.30         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-41890      1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         LIAONING URB TRANSP                     150.00        0.00        0.00            150.00         8.00        0.00
CN-PE-42299      1999   GOC                             TEC COOP CREDIT IV                        10.00       35.00        0.00             44.43         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-46051      1999  PRC                              HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                       20.00       50.00        0.00              69.30        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-49665      1999  PRC                              ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                      90.00       30.00        0.00            118.67         7.20        0.00
CN-PE-50036      1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                     200.00        0.00        0.00            198.00        10.42        0.00
CN-PE-51856    1999  MINISTRY OF FINANCE               ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                       27.40        5.61        0.00             32.89         2.72        0.00
CN-PE-51888      1999  PRC                                GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                    80.00       20.00        0.00             99.69         4.00        0.00
CN-PE-56216      1999  PRC                               LOESS PLATEAU II                        100.00       50.00        0.00            149.44         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-57352      1999  CHINA                             4TH RURAL WATER SUPP                     16.00       30.00        0.00             46.00         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-58308      1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         PENSION REFORM PJT                        0.00        5.00        0.00               5.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-63123      1999  PRC                              YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                      40.00       40.00        0.00             78.72         6.67        0.00
CN-PE-3539       1998  PRC                               SUST COAST RES DEV                      100.00        0.00        0.00             95.50          .09        0.00
CN-PE-3566       1998                                   BASIC HEALTH                               0.00       85.00        0.00             79.95          .22        0.00
CN-PE-35698      1998   PRC                              HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                    300.00        0.00        0.00            300.00        15.00        0.00
CN-PE-3591       1998  PRC                               STATE FARMS COMMERCI                    150.00        0.00        0.00            102.59      -27.57         0.00
CN-PE-3606       1998  GOC                               ENERGY CONSERVATION                      63.00        0.00        0.00             63.00         3.49        0.00
CN-PE-3614       1998  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                     200.00        0.00        0.00            192.00         8.63        0.00
CN-PE-3619      1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE              2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                     123.00        0.00        0.00            123.00        21.50        0.00
CN-PE-36414      1998  CHINA                              GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                      72.00       20.00        0.00             88,62         -.86        0.00
CN-PE-36949      1998  PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA        NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                          250.00        0.00        0.00            229.44         2.77        0.00
CN-PE-40185      1998  PRC                               SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                     95.00        0.00        0.00              90.08       23.93        0.00
CN-PE-45788      1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN    TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                          230.00        0.00        0.00            224.50        41.87        0.00
CN-PE-46563      1998  PRC                               TARIM BASIN II                           90.00       60.00        0.00            137.20         5.54        0.00
CN-PE-46952      1998  PRC                               FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                    100.00      100.00        0.00            190.56          .84       10.67
CN-PE-49700      1998  PRC                               IAIL-2                                  300.00        0.00        0.00            280.00        11.30        0.00
CN-PE-51736      1998   GOC                              E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                    250.00        0.00        0.00            250.00       112.90        0.00
CN-PE-56491      1998  PRC                               HEBET EARTHQUAKE                          0.00       28.40        0.00               5.60      -11.89        0.00
CN-PE-34081      1997  PRC                               XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                    430.00        0.00        0.00             313,07       97.01        0.00
CN-PE-3590       1997  PRC                               QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                     30.00      150.00        0.00             141,18       24.74        0.00
CN-PE-3635      1997  PRC                              VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                      10.00       20.00        0.00              11.45       -1.06        0.00
CN-PE-3637       1997  PRC                                NATL RUR WATER III                       0.00       70.00        0.00              60.58       12.47        0.00
CN-PE-36405      1997  PRC                               WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                    400.00        0.00        0.00            316.16        17.82        0.00
CN-PE-3643       1997  PRC                               XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                    300.00        0.00        0.00            230,72        67.72        0.00
CN-PE-3650       1997   GOC                              TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                    400.00        0.00        0.00            385.13       150.11       10.13
CN-PE-3654       1997  PRC                               HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                    400.00        0.00        0.00            318,31        88.29        0.00
CN-PE-36952      1997  PRC                               BASIC ED. IV                              0.00       85.00        0.00             38.42       -25.98        0.00
CN-PE-38988      1997  PRC                               HEILONGJIANG ADP                        120.00        0.00        0.00              89,02        9.01        0.00
CN-PE-44485      1997                                    SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                     400.00        0.00        0.00            361.84        15.27        0.00
CN-PE-34618      1996  PRC                               LABOR MARKET DEV.                        10.00       20.00        0.00              23.82       23.16        0.00
CN-PE-3507       1996  GOC                               ERTAN HYDRO II                          400.00        0.00        0.00             23.34       -18.36        0.00
CN-PE-3563       1996  PRC                              ANIMAL FEED                              150.00        0.00        0.00            138.78       117.48       25.46



Annex 9 - Page 2
CN-PE-3569      1996  P.R.C.                            SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                     260.00         0.00        7.75             106.81       37.25       27.92
CN-PE-3589       1996  PRC                                DISEASE PREVENTION                         0.00      100.00        0.00              67.15       60.10        0.00
CN-PE-3594       1996  PRC                               GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                        60.00       90.00        0.00             124.76       29.46        0.00
CN-PE-3599       1996  YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                 YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                        125.00       25.00        0.00             138.95       23.75         0.00
CN-PE-3602       1996  PRC                                HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                     125.00       25.00        0.00             123.89       81.64         0.00
CN-PE-3638      1996  PRC                               SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                      80.00        20.00        0.00              73.10       24.00        0.00
CN-PE-3646       1996  PRC                                 CHONGQING IND POL CT                    170.00        0.00       77.99              91.22      109.95         0.00
CN-PE-3648       1996  SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT                SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                     250.00         0.00        0.00             148.15       77.94         0.00
CN-PE-3649       1996  CHINA                             SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                        0.00      100.00        0.00              34.12       -3.71         0.00
CN-PE-3652       1996   PRC                              2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                     210.00         0.00        0.00             139.29       61.95        0.00
CN-PE-36950      1996  PRC                               BASIC ED. POOR III                          0.00      100.00        0.00               8.94      -18.63        0.00
CN-PE-40513      1996  PRC                               2ND HENAN PROV HWY                       210.00         0.00        0.00             175.14       60.48         0.00
CN-PE-3493       1995  PRC                               INLAND WATERWAYS                         420.00         0.00        0.00             267.86      -10.40        0.00
CN-PE-3571       1995  PRC                               RAILWAYS VII                             400.00         0.00       29.00             344.67      217.66        5.99
CN-PE-3585      1995  GOC                               SHENYANG IND. REFORM                     175.00         0.00        0.00              94.25       52.32        0.00
CN-PE-3596       1995  PRC                                 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                     100.00      110.00        0.00              24.28      -17.56        0.00
CN-PE-3598       1995                                    LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                      110.00        0.00        0.00              64.96       56.37        0.00
CN-PE-3600       1995  PRC                               TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                     200.00         0.00        0.00             120.23       47.49        0.00
CN-PE-3603       1995    PRC                             ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                     275.00        75.00       20.00             196.51      159.68       13.00
CN-PE-36041      1995  MOF                                FISCAL & TAX REF. &                       50.00       25.00        0.00              66.10       41.94        0.00
CN-PE-3612       1995  PRC                               XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                        150.00        0.00        0.00              41.95       35.30        0.00
CN-PE-3634       1995  PRC                               MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                        0.00       90.00        0.00              15.53        8.32        0.00
CN-PE-3636       1995  PRC                               BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                        0.00     100.00         0.00               3.35         .20        0.00
CN-PE-3639       1995  PRC                               SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                       95.00     200.00         0.00             133.57       31.47        0.00
CN-PE-3642       1995                                    ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                      400.00         0.00        0.00             120.28      -46.37        0.00
CN-PE-3647       1995   PRC                              ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                         0.00       10.00        0.00               5.45        5.85         0.00
CN-PE-36947      1995  GOC                               SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                     270.00         0.00        0.00             132.50      122.07       87.86
CN-PE-37156      1995  PRC                                IODINE DEF. DISORDER                       7.00       20.00        7.00               1.75       11.44         -.32
CN-PE-3502       1994  MOH                               RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                         0.00      110.00        0.00              26.97       21.76        0.00
CN-PE-3504      1994  PRC                               HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                     380.00         0.00        0.00              39.36       15.68        0.00
CN-PE-3540       1994   PRC                                LOESS PLATEAU                             0.00      150.00        0.00              21.45      -26.07        0.00
CN-PE-3557       1994   PRC                              FOREST RESOURCE DEV                         0.00     200.00         0.00              31.42        7.75      -37.64
CN-PE-3562       1994  PRC                               XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                  460.00         0.00        0.00                .48         .48        0.00
CN-PE-3586       1994    PRC                             SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                      160.00        0.00        0.00              58.50       54.16        0.00
CN-PE-3593       1994  PRC                               SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                          0.00     205.00         0.00              24.00      -10.55        0.00
CN-PE-3595       1994  PRC                                RED SOILS II DEVELOP                       0.00      150.00        0.00              39.86       18.78         0.00
CN-PE-3609       1994  GOC                               SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION           255.00         0.00        0.00             121.72       74.23        0.00
CN-PE-3622      1994  SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT           SHANGHAI MTP II                          150.00         0.00        0.00               7.36        7.37        0.00
CN-PE-3626       1994  GOC                                 FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                    140.00         0.00        0.00              58.63       41.96       13.92
CN-PE-3633       1994  GOVERNMENT OF PRC                 TELECOMMUNICATIONS                       250.00         0.00       30.00              14.55       44.55       -3.05
CN-PE-3641       1994  PRC                               YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                     350.00         0.00        0.00              69.61       56.79        0.00
CN-PE-3644      1994  PRC                               XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                    0.00      110.00         0.00              22.86        8.97        0.00
CN-PE-3473       1993  P.R.C.                              ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                      0.00      110.00        0.00              19.54       19.21        0.00
CN-PE-3512       1993  GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C         SHANGHAI PORT REST.                      150.00         0.00       25.74               3.88       29.44        3.53
CN-PE-3518       1993  PRC                               GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT                240.00         0.00        0.00               2.08        1.06        0.00
CN-PE-3533       1993                                    TIANJIN IND. II                          150.00         0.00       40.35              13.59       45.43       11.27
CN-PE-3559       1993  PRC                               AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                        0.00     115.00         0.00               7.08       -4.08        0.00
CN-PE-3561       1993  PRC                               SICHUAN ADP                                 0.00     147.00         0.00               5.42        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-3567       1993  PRC                               EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                        0.00      100.00        0.00               5.73        4.19        4.25
CN-PE-3570       1993  PRC                               RAILWAY VI                               420.00         0.00        0.00              83.87       83.55      -10.18
CN-PE-3580       1993  PRC                                SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.            250.00         0.00        0.00               4.15        1.26        0.00
CN-PE-3581       1993  PRC                               HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                    120.00         0.00        0.00               8.67        8.68        0.00
CN-PE-3592       1993  PRC                               REF. INST'L.& PREINV                        0.00       50.00        0.00              17.37       17.60        0.00
CN-PE-3597       1993  PRC                               TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                     100.00       100.00        0.00              47.42       43.08        0.00
CN-PE-3616       1993  PRC                               TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                      300.00         0.00        0.00              69.67       55.16        0.00
CN-PE-3623       1993  PRC                               FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                        0.00       60.00        0.00              17.77       16.51        0.00
CN-PE-3627       1993  PRC                               GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                     325.00      165.00         0.00            316.00       315.61      110.28
CN-PE-3632       1993  ROC                               ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                        0.00       50.00        0.00              10.58       11.06          .41
CN-PE-3503       1992                                     ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                    310.00         0.00        0.00               7.63        7.64        0.00
CN-PE-3534       1992   PRC                               ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                    220.00         0.00        0.00              19.91       19.92       16.62
CN-PE-3544       1992   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO                        0.00      130.00        0.00               1.46       -3.20        0.00
CN-PE-3564       1992  BEIJING MUNICIPALITY              BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                        45.00       80.00        0.00              24.48       19.26       15.36
CN-PE-3565      1992                                    SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                       0.00       60.00         1.69               1.30        -.08        0.00
CN-PE-3568       1992  R.O.C.                              TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                      0.00     100.00         0.00              15.31       12.42       -5.32
CN-PE-3624       1992  MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH                INFECTIOUS DISEASES                        0.00      129.60        0.00              31.09       26.83       26.79
Total                                                                                          15,104.40   4,365.61        239.52         10,161.83   3,130.82        326.95



Annex 9- Page 3
Active Proje cts      Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    8,999.27                   12,396.43           21,395.70
of which has been repaid:    91.07                     2,579.60             2,670.67
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    19,139.36                  9,446.50            28,585.86
Amount sold                      :   0.00                     0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :   0.00                    0.00                  0.00
Total Undisbursed                :   10,161.83                12.60               10,174.43
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-May-99.



Annex 9 - Page 4
II. IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of March 31, 1999
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval             Company            Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic      Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
0                 Pacific Ports                0.00      3.64      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.64      0.00      0.00
1987/92/94          China Bicycles              8.50      3.39      0.00      0.00      8.50      3.39      0.00      0.00
1993                Shenzhen PCCP               3.76       .99      0.00      0.00      3.76        .99     0.00      0.00
1993                Yantai Cement              13.51      1.95      0.00      7.22      13.51      1.95     0.00       7.22
1994                China Walden JV             0.00      6.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.53      0.00      0.00
1994                China Walden Mgt            0.00       .01      0.00      0.00      0.00       .01      0.00       0.00
1994                Dalian Glass               20.50      2.40      0.00     40.50     20.50      2.40      0.00      40.50
1994                Dynamic Fund                0.00     12.35      0.00      0.00      0.00      10.08      0.00      0.00
1994/97             PTP Leshan                 11.20      1.00      0.00      14.00     11.20      1.00      0.00     14.00
1995                Dupont Suzhou              23.36      4.15      0.00     46.80     23.36      4.15       0.00     46.80
1995                Newbridge Inv.              0.00      7.19      0.00      0.00      0.00       3.89      0.00      0.00
1995                Suzhou PVC                 22.00      2.48      0.00     22.20     22.00      2.48       0.00     22.20
1996                Beijing Hormel              4.64       .50      0.00      4.95      4.64       .50       0.00      4.95
1996                Jingyang                   40.00      0.00      0.00    100.00     40.00      0.00       0.00    100.00
1996                Nanjing Kumho              15.03      3.81      0.00     42.73      12.66     3.81       0.00     35.98
1996                Tianjin Kumho              11.17      0.00      0.00     33.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1996                Weihai Weidongri            3.83      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.83      0.00       0.00      0.00
1997                Ningbo                      0.00      2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.00       0.00      0.00
1997                Orient Finance             13.33      0.00      0.00      16.67     13.33     0.00      0.00      16.67
1997                PTP Hubei                  12.63      0.00      0.00     25.38      10.96     0.00       0.00     22.04
1997                Rabobank PTPC               2.40      0.00      0.00      2.40      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998                Caltex Ocean               21.00      0.00      0.00     45.00      16.23     0.00       0.00     34.77
1998                Chengxin-IBCA               0.00       .36      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998                Leshan Scana                6.10      1.35      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
1998                Rabobank SHFC               2.75      0.00      0.00      2.75      2.25      0.00       0.00      2.25
1998               Zhen Jing                    0.00      2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.00      0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                 235.71     55.57      0.00    403.60    206.73     45.82      0.00    347.38
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998                CHENGDU CHEMICAL            7.40      3.20      0.00      8.60
1997                CHINEFARGE                 12.80      0.00      0.00     20.00
1998                EURECA                      0.00      3.00      0.00      0.00
1998               JIANGSU COLINE               6.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                NISSAN/DONGFENG            20.20      0.00      0.00     27.00
1998                ORIENT FIN A INC            3.33      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                PTP HOLDINGS                0.00      1.50      0.00      0.00
1998                SHANGHAI KRUPP             30.00      0.00      0.00     78.44
1997                SMC                        14.00      0.00      0.00     14.00
1996                TIANJIN                     9.10      0.00      0.00      9.10
1998                WUHAN CIG                   0.00      1.50      0.00      0.00
1998                WUHAN PORT                  5.00      0.00      0.00      5.00
1998                XIB                        50.00     20.00      0.00      0.00
1998                ZHEJIANG COLINE             6.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                ZHEN JING                   4.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        169.33     29.20      0.00    162.14



Annex 10 - Page 1
China at a glance                                                             4/27/99
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &   middle-
China    Pacific  lncome    Development diamond*
1997
Poputation, mid-year (millions)                    1,227.2    1,751     2,283                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    860       970     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, USS bllions)                    1,055.4    1,700     2,803
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population I%)                                        1.0       1.3       1.2 1
Labor force (%)                                       t.t       1.6      1tS      GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                           I capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty tine)   7
Urban population (% of total population)               33        33        42
Life expectancy at birlh (years)                       70        69        69
Infant mortality (per t,000 live births)               32        37        36
Child malnutrition (1/6 of children under 3)           16        20        17               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (16 of popu/ation)                90        77        78
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    19        16        186
Gross primary enrollment (16 ofschoo/-age poputalon)  120       118       114              China
Male                                                121       120       116             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              120       119       114   |
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       19g7      199
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ biions)                           172.3   268.2      902.0    956.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP               28.5     38.1      38.2      39.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            4.8    13.6       23.0      21.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  29.0    36.2       42.7      43.6                       T
Gross national savings/GDP                  29.0    36.2       39.4      41.7
Current account balance/GDP                  0.3      0.1       2,9       2.7     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          ..     0.4       o.8       07      D omesti n                  Investment
Total debt/GOP                                 ..    13.2      16.3      16.7      a              - 
Total debt service/exports                    ..      9.6       87        9.9
Present value of debt/GDP                      .               14.9
Present value of debt/exports                                  63.9
1977-7  ISB-9 1" 19Indebtedness
1977487  1986-98    1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 9.8     10.3      8.8       7.8       7.0              China
GNP per capita                      8.5      8.8      7.4       6.5       6.1               Lower-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices          1&4      14.6     23.1       4.6       42    _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment(%
(% of GDP)                                                                        30
Agriculture                                 29.4    26.8       18.7      17.6       .
Industry                                    47.1    43.9       49.2      49.3    20
Manufacturing                             31.1     34.4       37.3      37.0    100
Services                                    23.4    29.3       32.1      33.1
Private consumption                         63.4     51.3      45.7      43.7            93   94   95   96   97   98
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  7.5     12.5      11.6      12.8                    GDI    -*GDP
Imports of goods and services                4.2     13.5      18.5      17.1
(average annual growth)                  1977-87  1988-98      1997     1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  6.4      4.4       3.5       3.5    40-
Industry                                    10.9    14.1       10.8       8.8   30
Manufactunng                               11.4    13.4        9.9       7.8     0                           A
Services                                    12.7      8.6       8.3       8.5   20
Prvate consumption                           9.7      8.6       6.2       5.1   ,Ot
General government consumption               9.0      9.9       8.2       7.8     0
Grossdomesticinvestment                     10.7    11.7        5.6      10.0           93   94   95   93   97   9S
Imports of goods and services               19.2     12.5      12.7       1.5                   Exports    ;Imports
Gross national product                      10.0     10.0       8.5       7.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10- Page 2
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                   ___
Domestic prices                             1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflaton (%)
Domesffc prices                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30-
(% change)
Consumer prices                               ..      7.3       7.9      -0.8    20 -
Implicit GDP deflator                        1.6      5.1       1.2      -1.8t51. 
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      93           598
Currentrevenue                                 ..    21.5      12.0      13.1    -10l
Current budget balance                         ..     4.2       0.6      -2.2   I              GDP deflator      CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -2.1       -1.5     -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                39,437   182,670  183,610    200,000
Food                                         ..   4,781    11,054     9,960
Fuel                                         ..   4,544     6,987    2,914    150.000
Manufactures                                 ..  26,206   158,767   161,935
Total imports (cif)                           ..  43,216   142,361   140,226    100,000     /
Food                                         .. 3,055  6,308  6,119  50.000 l                      l S
Fuel and energy                              ..    539    10,306    9,275
Capital goods                                ..  21,110    57,930   58,515          0 O.,
92 93  94 95  99  97  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      75         95       91   i
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      75         89       87                  a Exports   *    Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      .       99       107      105
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              8,550   39,120   207,253  207,140      4
Imports of goods and services              8,148   38,880   166,755  163,266
Resource balance                             402     240    40,498   43,874       2
Net income                                    82    -164   -15,900  -19,842
Net current transfers                          0     249      1,832    2,163
i 92       94  95   95    7 5
Currentaccountbalance                        484     325    26,430   26,195        t 9          9
Financing items (net)                       -390    4,458     9,427  -22,662   1         I
Changes in net reserves                      -94   4,783   -35,857   -3,533   , 4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..  143,363
Conversion rate (DEC, 1ocaU/US$)             1.9      4.5       8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  35,340   128,817  146,697
IBRD                                        ..   1,427      7,616    8,239                       k A                    I
IDA                                          ..   1,330     7,579    7,830   |                   A:  B:783
G0 31,464        B: 7,830
Total debt service                             ..   3,852    15,756   18,445                                 0:2,904
IBRD                                        ..    208         840      858
IDA                                         ..      12         73       81                                   E: 20,782
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..    209         249      228                                  /
Official creditors                          ..    626       4,401    4,315
Pnvate creditors                            ..   5,462      6,454     8,134
Foreign direct investment                    ..   2,314    40,180   44,236
Portfolio equity                            ..       0      3,466    8,457                   F: 75,478
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 ..   1,306      1,900    2,425      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..    702       2,097    2,275      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..      97        364      377      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ..    605      1,734     1,898   I                                         1
Interest payments                           ..    124         549      562
Net transfers                               ..    482       1,185    1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                    4/27/99






