Report No. PID7602
PID7602.TXT
Project Name                     China-Enterprise Reform Project (Learning ...
and Innovation Credit)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       CNPE60270
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              State Economic and Trade Commission
Contact: Mr. Qin, Yong Fa, Acting Chief
Enterprise Reform Division, Enterprise Reform
Department
tel: 86-10-63193116;
fax: 86-10-63193111
Date PID Revised                 April 18, 1999
Projected Appraisal              April 28, 1999
Projected Approval Date          June 8, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background.    The performance of China's industrial
state enterprise sector has been weak in the last years with high reported
losses, debt:equity ratios, over-capacity, and excess employment. The
Government has been emphasizing, particularly since 1997, its resolve to
address these problems through widespread and deep enterprise reform. These
reforms are accompanied by concurrent reforms in the financial sector and
social security, which should facilitate the tackling of the liability
overhang and social burdens of state enterprises. The enterprise reform
measures at present include, among others: A range of efforts to strengthen
enterprise governance, including through the transfer of small and medium
enterprises to private owners; the resolution of enterprise debt through work-
out, mergers, and bankruptcies; the consolidation of historically sub-scale
operations into more competitive enterprise groups on the local level; the
systematic dismantling of excess capacity in industries such as textiles and
coal; the spin-off of non-core assets from large enterprises to non-state
operators, the transfer of firms' social assets to municipal authorities or
non-state operators, and the sale of enterprise housing to employees; the
reduction of excess employment through transfer to employment service bureaus
that provide re-training, re-employment and benefits; and support to the
development of private small and medium enterprises as a key source of
employment growth including the absorption of laid-off state enterprise
workers.
2.      These and further enterprise reform measures are being pursued and
supported by the national authorities, notwithstanding the slowdown in
economic growth last year, and implemented to large measure on the provincial,
municipal, and district/village level. The speed and depth of this
implementation are circumscribed by concerns about social and financial
stability, but also by a shortage of skills, experience, and best-practice
knowledge on the local level. The proposed Project would help pilot a number
of reform measures in selected municipalities, derive lessons, and disseminate



them with the aim of replication beyond the pilots. The latter might be
supported with follow-up projects. Moreover, some social and financial issues
would be addressed under the proposed Project together with enterprise
restructuring.
3.      The Bank has an on-going dialogue with the Government in enterprise
reform, and has started to provide assistance on several of the above issues.
A multi-year Assistance Program for Enterprise Reform in China, led by EASPS,
has started with some activities while further ones are under preparation. The
program involves central authorities and four pilot municipalities - Changsha
(Hunan Province), Shenyang (Liaoning Province), Wuhan (Hubei Province) and
Wuhu (Anhui Province). The proposed Project would be at the core of this
program especially in FY00, and involve these four municipalities.
4.      Project Objectives. The proposed Project would be part of the Bank
Group's broader Assistance Program for Enterprise Reform in China, and would
help deepen enterprise reform in China. As a Learning and Innovation Project,
it would do so by helping to develop improvements in enterprise reform methods
adapted to local circumstances, testing their feasibility through pilot
implementation, and making the lessons widely known among central and local
policy-makers. This should lead to the replication of several promising
methods beyond the Project itself. These enterprise reform measures will
address (i) the corporate restructuring of large and medium state enterprises,
(ii) management development, (iii) re-training and re-employment of laid-off
state enterprise employees, and (iv) the development of private small and
medium enterprises.
5.      Project Description. The proposed Project would provide assistance in
the following areas:
Restructuring Models for Large/Medium Enterprises (LMEs): Financial
restructuring through work-out, bankruptcy, merger, and strategic investors;
shedding of non-core commercial operations, excess real estate, and social
assets; and improved governance through revised stakeholder roles and and
ownership changes;
Management Development: Workshops addressing issues as they emerge from
testing reform measures; a structured study visit and secondment program for
managers; development of distance training methods and materials; and market-
based executive search;
Re-training and Re-employment: Connection of relevant information systems; re-
training strategy targeted at emerging service sector opportunities; and
training and assistance materials for business start-up by laid-off people;
Development of Private Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs): Improved municipal
SME ownership transformation strategies and methods; local advisory service
institution for SME transformation; information systems to support SME
ownership transactions; post-purchase assistance to new SME owners; and
redefinition of industrial sector policy and SME development policy on the
municipal level.
6.      Project Financing.     The estimated project cost would be US$8.1 million
equivalent, of which IDA would finance US$5.0 million. The Credit funds would
be transferred to the participating municipalities through the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) via provincial Finance Bureaus. The financing arrangement is as
follows:
IDA Credit                               US$5.0 million
-2-



Local Governments                        US$0.9 million
Co-Financing                             US$2.2 million
Total                                    US$8.1 million
7.      Project Implementation arrangements.
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will represent the Borrower. MOF will on-lend
the Credit funds to four provincial Finance Bureaus, which will in turn on-
lend them to the four participating municipalities. The on-lending terms and
related guarantee arrangements will be determined in a manner acceptable to
the Association upon Credit negotiations.
The Project will be overseen by the State Economic and Trade Commission
(SETC). SETC is in charge of developing China's policy framework for SOE
reform, and monitoring and guiding its implementation. Within SETC, the
Department of Enterprise Reform is responsible for this Project. SETC will be
the principal point of contact with the World Bank at the national level.
SETC will provide coordination with and between the four participating
municipalities, feedback and guidance on enterprise reform methods tested
under the Project, liaison with other national authorities in the case of
cross-cutting policy issues and reform proposals, and support in disseminating
lessons learned beyond the four pilot municipalities. The Department of
Enterprise Reform will be supported by SETC's International Department in
procedural matters relating to the Project.
Other national agencies such as the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection,
the People's Bank of China, and the Securities Regulatory Commission will be
informed and consulted in matters pertaining to their jurisdiction, for
example, labor re-training, the restructuring of corporate bank debt, and
ownership transformation of listed companies.
The Project would be implemented by the Municipalities of Changsha, Shenyang,
Wuhan, and Wuhu. Within each Municipality, a Project Steering Committee
headed by a Vice Mayor and reporting to the Mayor has been formed to oversee
the Project. Each Steering Committee has established a Project Management
Office (PMO), in most cases headed by the Director of the municipal Economic
and Trade Commission and including at least four full-time staff. The PMOs
will be overall responsible for implementation on the local level. The
contracting of consultants and training services under the different Project
sub-components will be carried out by various municipal executing agencies,
except in Changsha where it will be carried out by the local PMO itself. The
PMOs would also advise and monitor the procurement and contract management by
the executing agencies. The PMOs would also prepare regular reporting
information on project monitoring indicators, project accounts, and
procurement. This information would be reviewed by SETC and MOF, which would
then submit them to the Association.
Points of contact in the four participating cities include:
Mr. Zhao, Yuesi, Deputy Head, PMO, 4 Fan Zheng Street, Changsha, tel. 86-731-
4412504, fax 86-731-4412794
Mr. Ma, Guangwen, Deputy Head, PMO, 2 Sui Hua Dong Street, Heping District,
Shenyang 110013, tel. 86-24-22508012, fax 86-24-22508019, e-mail
SETCPMO@PUB.SY.LN.CN
Mr. Pi, Feng, Head, PMO, 275 Shengli Street, Jiangnan District, Wuhan 430014,
tel 86-27-82781154, fax 86-27-82781164
Mr. Du, Tianxi, Deputy Head, PMO, 28 Jing Hu Road, Wuhu 241000, tel 86-553-
3825470, fax 86-553-3830419
Regular coordination meetings will bring together representatives of the
participating cities, SETC, other relevant agencies, key consultants engaged
-3 -



under the Program, and Bank and IFC team members. Consultant engagements will
emphasize the documentation of methods and results so as to facilitate the
sharing of the knowledge across the participating parties and beyond.
9.      Coordination with Other Donor Agencies.   The IFC has been closely
involved in preparation of the Project and is standing ready to support and
follow-up on some Project activities. The Bank team is collaborating with the
British authorities who are preparing a major assistance project with similar
objectives and focus in Shenyang, and with the German authorities who are
preparing an assistance program for SME development in the two provinces that
include Wuhan and Wuhu. These partnerships would help broaden and deepen the
assistance and, hence, its impact. The Project will be increasingly
coordinated also with other donor activities related to enterprise reform that
are being prepared or implemented by the ADB, UNDP, and other agencies.
10.     Project Sustainability.     Project sustainability will be ensured by the
firm commitment of the Chinese Government to continue and deepen enterprise
reform. The authorities of the four municipalities participating in this
Project have also been demonstrating strong commitment to profound enterprise
reform. Institutional capacity will be developed or strengthened under many
of the Project's sub-component. This being a Learning and Innovation Project,
it is entirely designed to innovate or adapt, test, and learn lessons about
reform measures on the local level that will be replicable beyond the Project
itself. A set of project monitoring indicators have been drafted with these
objectives in mind.
11.     Lessons Learned   from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.    The Bank
has addressed enterprise reform in the past mainly as part of large investment
projects (e.g., industrial credit lines) with some technical assistance
elements. The last such project has been the Shenyang Industrial Reform
Project, which is now being implemented satisfactorily. The financial
performance of the industrial sub-borrowers has in some earlier projects not
been sustainable, and the large investment components have at times diverted
attention from the reform-oriented technical assistance elements. The
deepening of enterprise reform by China's leadership in the last two years has
now lead to emphasizing, under the proposed Project, the knowledge transfer
through focused technical assistance and training. Moreover, the deepening of
enterprise reform by the Chinese Government has lead to addressing under this
Project a wider range of enterprise reform issues. The recent
decentralization of more staff and decision authority to the China Resident
Mission should permit responsive Project supervision despite this project
complexity. Finally, the close involvement of the World Bank Institute
(successor to EDI) in the Project helps to integrate a wide range of knowledge
transfer modes.
12.     Various state enterprise reform and privatization projects throughout
the Bank point to the following success factors that have been taken into
account in designing this Project: Strong government commitment to the reform
measures; clear and monitorable performance benchmarks; and adequate resources
for project supervision.
13.     Environmental Aspects.    The project is not expected to present any
environmental risks and thus an environmental rating of "C" is proposed.
Neither an indigenous peoples plan nor resettlement plan will be developed.
- 4 -



14.     Project Objective Categories.    The project would primarily contribute to
the private sector and institutional development categories.
15.     Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 30, 1999.
- 5-



