                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 36577

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-32710)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
                               (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                           FOR A

                               ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT




                                        June 29, 2006




China and Mongolia Country Department
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 2006)

                        Currency Unit = Renminbi (Yuan)
                        Renminbi 1.00 = US$ 0.1251
                              US$ 1.00 = Renminbi 7.9965

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1    December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB             Asian Development Bank
ASEM            Asia-Europe Meeting
BOF             Bureau of Finance
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CQ              Consultant Qualification
DCA             Development Credit Agreement
DIFD            Department of International Finance and Development (United Kingdom)
ERP             Enterprise Reform Project
ETC             Economic and Trade Commission
LIL             Learning and Innovation Loan
LME             Large and Medium Enterprise
MIS             Management Information System
MOF             Ministry of Finance
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PHRD            Policy and Human Resources Development
PMO             Project Management Office
PRTC            Property Rights Transaction Center (Shenyang)
PSD             Private Sector Development
PSR             Project Status Report
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
SARS            Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SETC            State Economic and Trade Commission
SME             Small and Medium Enterprise
SMG             Shenyang Management Group
SOE             State-Owned Enterprise
TOR             Terms of Reference
XUAR            Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
WBI             World Bank Institute



                       Vice President:      Jeffrey Gutman, Acting
                     Country Director       David R. Dollar
                      Sector Manager        Khalid Mirza
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        L. Richard Meyers

                                            CHINA
                            ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P060270                                                  Project Name: ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
Team Leader: L. Richard Meyers                                       TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                    Name: ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-32710
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (41%); General industry and trade sector (32%); Other
                             social services (18%); Micro- and SME finance (9%)
                   Theme: Improving labor markets (P); Small and medium enterprise support (P); State enterprise/bank
                             restructuring and privatization (P); Corporate governance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/11/1999                                     Effective: 07/21/2000                07/21/2000
     Appraisal: 05/06/1999                                         MTR: 09/01/2000
      Approval: 06/28/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ROC/State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC); ROC/Municipalities of
                                           Changsha; ROC/Shenyang; ROC/Wuhan and Wuhu; ROC/Ministry of Health
                       Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:        Homi Kharas                                    Hoon Mok Chung
Team Leader at ICR:             L. Richard Meyers                              Klaus Lorch
ICR Primary Author:             Thang-Long Ton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                            Outcome:       U
                       Sustainability:     UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                      Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes


Note on the Ratings:

1.  The above ratings apply only to the four original components of the project which cover enterprise reform
    activities in the four, then two, participating municipalities. These were closed for all practical purposes on

     June 30, 2002. The Bank Performance was rated as "marginally satisfactory." But since the ICR rating
     system allows no such rating, Bank's performance was recorded as "S" above.

2.   The rating for the first additional component on snow emergency recovery operation can be found in its own
     ICR, Implementation Completion Note on the Xinjang Uyghur (Altai) Snow Disaster Recovery Component
     and Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Snow Disaster Recovery Component, Report No. 27454, November 2003.

3. The rating for the second additional component on SARS and Infectious Disease Program is satisfactory,
     concerning the activities funded from the proceeds of this project which are now completed. The overall
     review of this program can be found in the documents of the Basic Health Services Project (Task P003566 ) as
     this program is still on-going at the writing of this document.


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Background. State-owned enterprises (SOEs) were a key element in the Chinese
economy in the 1990s. In 1997, China had about 300,000 SOEs involved in commercial activity,
employing about 11 percent of the country's total workforce and accounting for nearly half of
fixed assets and about one quarter of GDP. While reliable SOE financial data were scarce, it
appeared that the share of loss-makers had increased and the sector's total net profit decreased,
with rising debt-equity ratios, unsold inventories and over-capacity in many industries. Industrial
SOEs tended to be saddled with extensive burdens in terms of financial debt, over-capacity,
excess employment, and social facilities. As a result, the health of the banking sector was affected
by a high share of non-performing loans to SOEs and by the potential risk and opportunity costs
associated with the disproportionate credit allocation to SOEs. While enterprise reforms during
this period sought to strengthen SOE governance through a variety of initiatives, the impact on
SOE performance fell short of the expectations on the whole. At the same time, the performance
of collective and cooperative enterprises seemed to have slowed as well, characterized by limited
management skills, unclear ownership arrangements, no access to the Shanghai, Shenzhen or
overseas stock markets, and difficulties in obtaining credit from banks. Non-collective private or
individual ventures had been emerging rapidly from a low base level, accounting for a rapidly
growing share of employment generation although they, too, have been facing many constraints.

3.1.2. In 1997-98, the government embarked on a course of accelerated and deepened enterprise
reform with a wide range of initiatives. Local authorities were transferring many of their small
and medium-sized SOEs to private ownership. The private sector was formally recognized as a
key engine of employment generation while a constitutional change acknowledged the important
role of private enterprises. Local governments were admonished to cut back the plethora of
charges whose collection burdened SMEs. Some private enterprises were given the right to
engage directly in export and import activities. Bank lending to SMEs was being encouraged
through the establishment of local-level credit guarantee institutions and somewhat more
flexibility in lending rates. While the privatization of larger enterprises was not formally
encouraged, it was quite common to see partial changes in ownership through stock market
listings and employee shares, transfer of assets and operations into joint ventures, and efforts to
attract strategic investors into distressed firms. At the same time, efforts to strengthen SOE
governance through other means were being reinforced. (1) The government sought to harden



                                                           - 2 -

SOE's budget constraints by requiring banks to strengthen their credit analysis skills, intensifying
their prudential supervision, and discouraging local government guarantees. The government also
addressed industrial SOE's extensive burdens in terms of financial debt, over-capacity, excess
employment and social facilities.

(1)       For example, these included building a corps of special inspectors for large SOEs, transferring SOEs from the
military, police and party organs to the central and local governments, linking managers' incentives more to the firm's financial
performance, and more strictly enforcing managers' accountability through replacements and legal action. Management training
received high priority, with a 3-months executive development program now practically mandatory for top managers of large
SOEs and with special courses for managers of loss-making SOEs. More broadly, the government seeks to enhance corporate
governance by strengthening accounting standards, audit quality, public disclosure requirements, and penalties for
misreporting.


3.1.3. The implementation speed of several such reforms was however circumscribed by the
slowdown of economic growth and the ensuing difficulties in labor absorption. The decline of
macro-economic growth was due to a contractionary domestic policy in 1996-97 and a drop in
exports to Asian markets. In late 1998, with the regional financial crisis abating, the government
gave a new impetus to reform by calling for the resolution of non-performing bank loans through
asset management companies. Since the bulk of bad loans of these banks were SOE debts, this
triggered a focus on corporate financial restructuring. A new Securities Law was introduced and
effective in mid-1999 to help overhaul the securities industry, its prudential supervision, financial
disclosure, the approval process for market listings, and other key elements. These reforms
would enhance the role of minority shareholders in corporate governance, impose more market
discipline on listed firms, and in the longer run facilitate the access of sound firms to capital
markets.

3.1.4. While enterprise reform polices are expected to deepen and accelerate with the above
initiatives, implementation of reform measures on the local level faced a number of constraints:
(i) little experience, limited skills and capacity, and narrow knowledge of international experience
and good practice standards among district and municipal authorities, and their difficulty in
assessing the results of experiments and adapting international practices to local circumstances;
(ii) underdeveloped business support services at the local levels, and limited experience among
enterprises and local authorities in drawing on financial and other advisory services required for
corporate restructuring; (iii) shortcomings in accounting, audit and disclosure which called for
special efforts to verify and assess financial data, necessary for many enterprise reform activities;
(iv) several restructuring actions, such as debt write-off, bankruptcy, stock market listings and, to
some extent, lay-offs tended to be governed by administrative quota allocation rather than
market-based incentives; and (v) increasing role of non-state enterprises at the sub-national level
required adjustments in policy instruments, support programs, and institutional responsibilities in
the industrial and other sectors.

3.1.5. The Enterprise Reform Project (hereafter ERP) was designed to help assess the potential
and problems of enterprise reform measures in the local context, identify and adapt promising
approaches further to local circumstances, test them through implementation on a pilot basis, and
share the lessons widely for replication. These lessons, as well as the enhancement of
implementation capacity in the participating municipalities, would facilitate follow-up support by
the Bank and other agencies. Carried out in partnership with other donor agencies and private



                                                               - 3 -

institutions, this project was part of a broader Assistance Program for Enterprise Reform Program
in China. The Program provided policy advice and technical assistance on additional aspects of
enterprise reform. It was consistent with the Bank Group's strategy and objectives in the 1995
and 1997 Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) which were grouped in five major themes, one of
which was to ensure macroeconomic stability and maintain structural reform momentum. The
SOE reform was highlighted in this context as one of the critical structural reforms, together with
financial sector and public finance reform.

3.1.6. Objectives. The objective of the ERP was to learn from and apply innovative methods for
the reform of China's SOE sector. It was expected to contribute to one of the CAS objectives on
SOE reform by assisting four pilot municipalities to develop and to model the implementation of
SOE restructuring and transformation in the industrial sector, together with related experimental
support for management training, labor re-training, and the development of private small and
medium enterprises (SMEs). It aimed to help deepen enterprise reform in China while
contributing to the CAS objective in maintaining the momentum of structural reforms. The
development objectives of this Learning and Innovation Project was to identify and adapt
potential improvements in enterprise reform methods to local circumstances, test their feasibility
through pilot implementation, and make these lessons widely known among local and central
policy-makers, leading to the replication of promising reform methods beyond the Project itself.
These enterprise reform measures will address: (i) corporate restructuring and transformation of
large and medium state enterprises; (ii) management development; (iii) re-training and
re-employment of laid-off state enterprise employees; and (iv) development of private small and
medium enterprises.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. The ERP and its original components were closed on June 30, 2002. However, the
project's objectives and its the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were revised twice, and
the project closing date extended by the Bank's management, to accommodate the authorities'
requests that the remaining undisbursed balance be allocated for assistance in two emergency
situations in China: (i) the snow disaster emergency in Xinjiang region in 2000/01 and (ii) the
outbreak of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (or SARS) in Southern China in 2003.

3.2.2. The first amendment of the ERP provided emergency support to China through a snow
disaster emergency operation when the Xinjiang region had a series of disastrous snowstorms.
The objective was to assist the Borrower in restoring social and economic infrastructure critical to
the livelihood of herders devastated by the unusually severe snowstorm in the hard hit areas of
Altai Prefecture and Tacheng Prefecture of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR), and
in enhancing and strengthening the disaster response capacity of the affected herders. It reflected
the Bank's policy for emergency assistance, including restoration of assets and production levels
in the disrupted economy through financing of investment and productive activities ­ rather than
relief or consumption. The original components of this Project were completed by the original
closing date of May 31, 2003. (2)

(2)      World Bank, Implementation Completion Note on the Xinjang Uyghur (Altai) Snow Disaster Recovery Component
and Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Snow Disaster Recovery Component, Report No. 27454, November 2003.




                                                        - 4 -

3.2.3. The ERP's closing date was once again extended and the balance of its proceeds was
reallocated by Bank's management to finance activities supporting the SARS and Infectious
Diseases Response Program in June 2003, following the outbreak of SARS in Southern China.
The project was one of the eight projects whose funding was reallocated to this program. (3) The
objective of the Program was to: (i) address emergency needs for water and sanitation-related
diagnosis, clinical management, and personal protection that are necessary to bring the epidemic
fully under control; and (ii) support the government's efforts to strengthen the capacity of the
public health system more generally so that China's health system was prepared to combat the
possible re-emergence of SARS and, equally important, similar infectious disease threats that
might occur in the future. There were 3 program components: Component 1 supported program
planning, coordination, and policy development activities. Component 2 supported clinical
management of SARS patients including setting up fever clinics, renovating designated SARS
hospitals and wards, training female and male health care workers, strengthening personal
protection measures for health care workers, providing emergency supplies, undertaking regular
supervision, and carrying out operational research. Component 3 supported disease prevention
and control, with a focus on SARS and other infectious diseases including strengthening disease
surveillance and case reporting. (4)

(3)       In all cases the reallocations would neither compromise the original objectives nor the economic viability of the eight
projects concerned. The respective Development Credit Agreement for each of the eight operations will be amended to add a
new component covering activities to be carried out under the SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program and to enable
Credit proceeds to be used to fund the activities. For activities that will be carried out by provinces, agreements will be entered
into with each province for the carrying out of such activities using the proceeds of the Credit.

(4)       For the overall SARS and Infectious Disease Program, please see documents for the Basic Health Services Project
(Task P003566).

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. The ERP consisted of four components: (i) restructuring models for large/medium
enterprises; (ii) management development; (iii) re-training and re-employment; and (iv)
development of private SMEs. Four municipalities were chosen to participate in the activities of
this project: Changsha, Shenyang, Wuhan, and Wuhu. These four municipalities were chosen
based on their commitment to innovation and learning in enterprise reform, their demonstrated
implementation capabilities, and their representation of a good mix in terms of location, size, and
industry composition.

3.3.2. Component 1. Restructuring Models for Large/Medium Enterprises. This component
would support the testing of various forms of corporate restructuring of medium to large
industrial state enterprises and develop model approaches based on this testing. From this
exercise, lessons would be drawn to help to identify, share and address obstacles in terms of
policies, regulations and knowledge on the local and national level. These would lead to
generating model materials for replication and dissemination and emerging standards of good
practices for various enterprise transformation methods would be promoted. Activities would
include (i) corporate restructuring, (ii) financial restructuring, (iii) reduction of nonviable and
non-core assets and operations; and (iv) governance improvements. All four municipalities



                                                                - 5 -

Changsha, Shenyang, Wuhan, and Wuhu would participate in the activities under this component.

3.3.3. Component 2. Management Development. Activities in this component were to be
supported by the World Bank Institute (WBI). These consisted of workshops for enterprise
managers and officials in the four participating municipalities, as well as centrally during regular
coordination meetings that bring together their representatives. The workshops would address
general enterprise restructuring and management customized to Chinese circumstances and
specific issues emerging during the course of advisory assistance. Additional activities specific to
individual cities participating in the project. Changsha would pioneer distance learning for
management by developing appropriate training materials and toolkits for enterprise reform. In
addition, the project would assist in experiments to develop good practices in the search and
recruitment of executives for enterprises. Shenyang would only participate in workshops as
mentioned above and the training of trainers. Wuhan was to conduct two modes of external
training: (i) a highly structured study tour program and (ii) secondments to foreign-invested firms
and firms outside the country. Wuhu would be supported by the project through the training
activities in the start-up year which would be phased out thereafter at a training facility to be set
up by the municipal authorities themselves.

3.3.4. Component 3. Retraining and Re-employment. This component aimed to support the
development of a better information and forecasting capability on future employment
opportunities to re-training centers for the three following municipalities, Changsha, Shenyang,
and Wuhu. Specifically, it would help design the connection between existing information
systems of job markets and re-training centers in a city, and potentially also of the social benefits
administration. Linkages would be contemplated with neighboring towns and with more distant
towns known for labor shortages. (5)                           The project would help review local strategy for
re-training and target it better at long-term areas for employment growth, provide training and
materials for laid-off people to start up their own businesses. (6) A standard package of
regulatory information, instruction materials, and model contracts (enterprise charter, basic
accounting system, labor contracts, lease contracts, etc.) would be assembled and distributed.

(5) The Project would help determine the need for, and cost of, software and equipment to implement these connections but it
would not fund these purchases. The system design would be advised by the same experts across the four cities so as to
minimize costs.


(6) These would address basic business skills such as accounting, assessment of market opportunities, the development of
business plans, business registration, filings of business taxes, establishment of a bank relationship, contracting employees and
premises, and finding business support services.


3.3.5. Changsha would use funding for the design of information systems and their inter-linkages
as described above, and for the engagement of local experts to help develop software and for
advice and training on re-training and re-employment. In Shenyang, the inter-connection of
labor-related information systems would include establishing network connections with
neighboring cities, and electronic exchange of information with more distant areas of relative
labor shortage. The credit would help fund system design and local software programming (7)
with local and international experts' advice on relevant policies and strategies, institutional
improvements, the targeting of retraining programs, etc. The consultants would also help create



                                                                - 6 -

awareness and understanding of emerging service business concepts that hold potential for
extensive employment generation, develop and introduce re-training aimed at laid-off people to
help them start their own businesses. All these activities would be underpinned by workshops on
re-training and curriculum development. Finally, about 30 trainers of re-training centers were
expected to be trained. Wuhan would not use this credit in the areas of re-training and
re-employment. Wuhu would participate in the improvement and inter-connection of information
systems on re-training and re-employment, by funding system design and software programming
in part from the credit.

(7) Equipment costs would be funded through a reallocation under the existing Shenyang Industrial Reform Loan.


3.3.6.    Component 4. Development of Private SMEs. Within the main objective to develop and
promote SMEs for this component, the project was designed to meet different priorities and
situations in the participating municipalities, Changsha, Shenyang, and Wuhu.

3.3.7. The project would help Changsha define a strategy and testing approaches for SME
ownership transformation and spin-off of small-scale operating branches of larger enterprises to
the private sector by identifying and addressing key obstacles and weaknesses of hitherto
prevailing practices. New methods and processes, to be assessed and customized under the
project, would include more market-based valuations, competitive sales, wide advertisement, etc.
Particular attention would be paid to mechanisms in the case of buyers with limited purchasing
power, addressing inter-related issues, including installment purchases, credit, or grant elements,
related security arrangements, governance of the municipality's residual ownership or collateral
rights in the transition period; and operational control and its legal basis (lease, contract
management, employment contract, etc.) in the transition period. The results might serve as
models beyond Changsha for such ownership transfers to buyers with limited purchasing power.

3.3.8. Shenyang had a very active and well-run Property Rights Transaction Center (8) which
was in the process of expanding its capabilities to handle an increasing range of business. The
credit would help this Center to design improved information systems for asset valuation,
property transactions, policy and regulations database, and other related functions, including the
design of a website to make objects on offer as well as regulatory information publicly available
on-line. The project would also help develop assistance to recent buyers of local SMEs,
especially immediately after the purchase. An assistance kit of materials including regulations,
labor and lease model contract forms, model company charters, advisory notes on legal
conversions and corporate restructuring, address lists of advisory businesses like accountants,
lawyers, and advertising specialists, and materials on financing programs would be put together
and tested. In addition, a set of training and brief one-on-one advice would be provided on a pilot
basis to recent purchasers of SOEs. Shenyang would use international and national experts to
help conduct a study of the competitive environment for SMEs in the city, appropriate roles of the
municipal government in SME development; and the roles of key municipal agencies involved in
this effort. Consultants would help prepare the implementation of recommendations emerging
from this study. Further, the project proposed to support these activities by transferring
knowledge (through visiting experts, translation of relevant studies, and potentially study visits)
about other countries' practices.



                                                           - 7 -

(8) The Center was supported by the Shenyang Industrial Reform Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. 12415, August
10, 1994.


3.3.9. Wuhu intended to use on-site advisory services for the organization and start-up of a
business advisory services entity that would target assistance to SMEs to restructure their firms,
further transform ownership or legal form of the firms, and improve business operations. Through
subcontracting, referral, good-practice examples, and training of professionals, the entity would
contribute to the development of local service businesses like legal, accounting, market research,
and similar firms.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1. While the four theme components remained the same, there were changes in the
participating municipalities. Two of the participating municipalities withdrew from the project
due to delays and complexities of implementation. The remaining balance was used for two
additional components (i) emergency operation to assist in the snow disaster recovery in the Altai
Prefecture and Tacheng Prefecture of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region ($2.1 million); and
(ii) the SARS and infectious diseases response program to address the outbreak of SARS in
Southern China ($2.9 million) (Paras 3.2.1-3.2.3).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1 The quality at entry for this project is rated moderately unsatisfactory by the ICR. As a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), this project focused its attention on learning from
experimenting in different ways to help move along the reform in the enterprise sector in China in
different municipalities. However, the implementation records showed that the project could not
promote the objective of learning, innovation, and sharing of experiences as there was substantial
lack of basic knowledge requirements and understanding on the management of Bank projects by
the recipients.(9) While the project rated as substantial the risk of "high overhead costs and
processing time ... needed to implement the Bank's procurement, disbursement and financial
procedures at the local PMOs," there were -- in hindsight -- no adequate risk mitigation measures:
The project appraisal document (PAD) only stated that there was "no procurement of goods" and
because consultant procurement was based on "Consultant Qualifications (CQ) and fell beneath
the threshold for time-consuming advertisement." Workshops on procurement, disbursement, and
financial management were considered as risk minimization measures for the project. But these
were not adequate as it turned out during the project implementation period, as there was not
enough familiarity and even understanding on the part of the participating municipalities with
Bank's required procedures. This resulted in misunderstanding and long delays, and failures in
carrying out the activities by the municipalities.

(9) In fact, the first task manager knew that two of the four participating municipalities had "no prior experience with Bank
operations," and that these would need "quite a number of weeks" to prepare. Communication from the TM Klaus Lorch on
February 26, 1999.


3.5.2 The PAD also stated that the supervision budget "may not be sufficient for large number
of sub-components and intensive learning" and rated this risk as moderate. Again, in hindsight,
supervision was not provided adequately -- especially in projects with an overwhelming technical
assistance nature. This factor contributed further to aggravate the lack of familiarity with Bank's



                                                              - 8 -

procurement, disbursement and financial procedures at the local PMOs of the participating
municipalities.

3.5.3 In the design phase, there was no consideration of the interaction and the dynamics among
the different units within the municipalities and its PMOs, between the municipalities and the
provincial authorities and their administrative units, and finally with the central government.

3.5.4 The ERP was conceived as one part of an overall package of programs on enterprise
reform activities that included other Bank's projects and grants. At the design stage, this was a
positive feature as it emphasized the good linkage among the program's activities. But the
time-consuming procedures for each of the activities negatively affected the sequencing of related
and follow-up activities, especially those to be supported by the ERP, due to the lack of able and
knowledgeable staff to carry out the needed procedures, those to be followed by the national
government as well as those from the provincial and municipal authorities and their related
agencies in addition to those by the Bank. Thus, delays multiplied and adversely affected the
implementation of the ERP activities.

3.5.5 Further, at the preparation stage, there was some urgency to have Board approval within
fiscal year 1999 because this was the last year that China could borrow on IDA terms. This fact
changed some priorities in the project's design, affecting certain preparatory steps which were
moved toward the implementation stage.

3.5.6 Results of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) findings. This project was not reviewed
by the Quality Assurance Group, neither in the quality at entry nor the quality of supervision. (10)


(10) Confirmation from Mr. Melvin Vaz of Quality Assurance Group, June 19, 2006.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 In order to have an accurate review of the outcome and achievements of the project's
objectives, there is a need to separate the different stages and the different components of the
project. Since this ICR is first and foremost an assessment of the ERP per se, it will concentrate
on the implementation of the original four components by the four participating municipalities on
enterprise reform activities.(11) With regards to the two additional components, the first one ­
the snow disaster recovery emergency operation ­ was reviewed in the Implementation
Completion Note in November 2003. (12)                     Thus, reference will be made to this document but
this ICR will not cover this component. The second additional component which financed
activities supporting the SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program in June 2003 will only
be discussed briefly in this ICR with details to be found in the Basic Health Project (which covers
the SARS program). The activities in the SARS program are still on-going, but since the funding
(from this project) has been exhausted, the decision was made to close this component on
December 2005.

(11) The term ERP as it is used throughout this ICR refers only to the original project.



                                                            - 9 -

(12) World Bank, Implementation Completion Note on the Xinjang Uyghur (Altai) Snow Disaster Recovery Component and
Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Snow Disaster Recovery Component, Report No. 27454, November 2003.


4.1.2 Achievement of the original objective and outputs. The overall outcome of the ERP
which supported a series of enterprise reform activities is rated as unsatisfactory by the ICR. The
project did not achieve the original development objectives intended for the participating
municipalities. The intention of this learning and innovation project -- i.e., to develop innovative
approaches to SOE transformation and restructuring that could serve as models for dissemination
to other medium-size municipalities in China -- was not achieved. The project itself was rated
unsatisfactory by three of the six Project Status Reports (PSRs) that covered the project, either
because there was excessive implementation delays and/or unsatisfactory project management
leading to an unsatisfactory rating for all three categories: (i) achievement of project development
objectives; (ii) implementation progress; and (iii) project management in the sixth and last PSR for
the ERP.

4.1.3 Given the long list of a wide range of technical assistance activities to be carried out and
the number of municipal participants (municipalities of Changsha, Shenyang, Wuhan and Wuhu)
and their related sub-participants in addition to the State Economic and Trade Commission
(SETC), the ERP's achievements were -- at best ­ minimal with countless and substantial delays.
On the part of the borrower, the very first delay was the declaration of effectiveness due to the
time-consuming process of document approvals by the authorities, including the specific
procedures for the participating municipalities and their provincial authorities. Subsequent delays
were due to the unfamiliarity of the municipal project management offices (PMOs) concerning the
Bank's procedures on consultant selection, their procurement and other related services. Further,
the arrangement for on-lending between the provincial authorities and the two participating
municipalities was not finalized until mid 2001. (13)

(13) Communications from Mr. Li Ganghui, International Department, Ministry of Finance to Ms. Amanda Carlier and Mr.
Zhang Chunlin on June 15, 2001


4.1.4 The delay in implementation was also affected by the Bank's supervision capacity in the
beginning of the project with changes in Bank staff, aggravated by the uncertainty in Bank's
supervision budget which resulted in slow rearrangement of responsibilities for project
components and potential fielding of experts, and the reorganization within the Bank which
affected the department which was responsible for the ERP.

4.1.5 A factor that inadvertently contributed further to the implementation delay of
ERP-supported activities was because the project was part of an overall package of financing for
the Bank-sponsored enterprise reform program activities in China. Besides the ERP, funding
sources also included another IDA credit (Technical Cooperation Credit-3), a PHRD Grant, and
ASEM trust fund. As all these other funding sources expired one or two years before the ERP,
the emphasis was placed on accelerating the activities financed under these other sources. Given
the limited institutional capacity of the counterparts, this meant that the implementation of
activities to be financed under the ERP itself had to be sequenced as they were planned to be
follow-up activities. (14)

(14) For example, at the beginning of the ERP, there was implementation progress in two of the four cities within the



                                                          - 10 -

enterprise reform program as a whole (i.e., financed from the TCC-3, PHRD and ASEM grants), notably Wuhu and Shenyang
on the themes of enterprise reform, management training and studies on the labor market. In Wuhu, activities included an
assignment to restructure the viable assets of Guanghua Group and prepare it for an Initial Public Offering (IPO), and the
implementation of a management-training program for 45 senior managers with the University of Shanghai. In Shenyang a
major consulting assignment was underway with PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC) on the restructuring of a number of
large-medium scale SOEs and studies on the labor market information system and retraining of laid off workers were finalized.
These activities, in turn, would lead to follow-up activities to be financed directly from the ERP.


4.1.6 The enterprise reform program included funding from both credits and grants sources.
This might have confused the municipalities which were reported to understand that there was no
debt service obligations involved, especially when the PHRD and the ASEM grants were to be
used up first. Given the unfamiliarity of the officials in the municipalities, the misunderstanding
was further compounded.

4.1.7 Two of the participants (Wuhan and Changsha municipalities) withdrew from the project
in June 2001, a year after the project was declared effective. A number of factors contributed to
their decision for withdrawal.

·         The initial slow implementation was due to the reorganization of the Bank unit responsible
for the ERP, (15) with the resulting lost opportunity to build on the momentum developed during
the project preparation stage.

·         The ERP was designed as a municipality-based project to take into account the direct
involvement of the local authorities and the comprehensiveness of the reform to be carried out.
But among the local authorities, there were possible misunderstandings of the allocation of grant
funding and content, unfamiliarity with procurement procedures and Bank's guidelines -- two of
the municipalities did not work with the Bank before -- and financial terms generated during
preparation and early stage of implementation. (16) The change in the mayors and senior staff at
the local level contributed further to these misunderstandings.

·         The on-lending agreement between the municipal and the provincial authorities and the
MOF was not signed until 2001. This was an obstacle for the implementation as activities were
put on hold pending the removal of this broad legal uncertainty.

(15) During this period, the Private Sector Department, which had the responsibility over the ERP, was merged
with the IFC. This institutional reorganization resulted in a great deal of uncertainty and personnel changes, and
adversely affected the implementation of a series of projects, including the ERP.
(16) Communication from Mr. Li Ganghui, op.cit, and e-mail correspondences of Ms. Carlier and Mr. Chunlin on
February 12, 13 and 14, 2001 as filed in IRIS and Project Portal. The change in the mayors and senior staff at the
local level contributed further to these misunderstandings.

4.1.8 For Wuhan Municipality, the Bank's lack of responsiveness appeared to affect the
implementation of this sub-component in late 1999 to early 2000. (17) Further, the provincial
budget was at that time in deficit, adding pressure toward Wuhan's decision for withdrawal from
the ERP to avoid any new obligations. In the case of Changsha, there were substantial delays due
to the lack of action on the part of the municipal authority in the implementation of the project,
despite some promise of action during the first quarter of 2001. However, these were not carried
out and in the end, the Changsha authority decided to withdraw formally from the project in June


                                                               - 11 -

2001. (18)

(17) Please see footnote 15.
(18) Communication from Mr. Li Guanghui, Director, International Department, Ministry of Finance to Ms. Amanda Carlier on
June 15, 2001, as filed in IRIS and Project Portal


4.1.9 The two remaining participants, Shenyang and Wuhu municipalities, did not in the end
complete all the activities under their respective components. The project's funding for the
activities implemented amounted to just about US$207,650 for Shenyang consultant services and
training, according to the Bank's disbursement data records. There were no expenses for Wuhu
municipality from the project's resources. Most of the activities were funded from the ASEM and
PHRD Grants and other projects in the overall enterprise package.

4.1.10 In Shenyang, in particular, the implementation was first stalled due mainly to the issue of
internal repayment arrangements within the municipal government and the provincial authority.
At the launch of the project, the various project implementation units agreed to be liable for the
repayment of the portion of the ERP allocated to them, with only a couple of the activities to be
financed directly by the municipal budget (Shenyang's Finance Bureau budget). However, the
respective implementation units, such as the Property Rights Transaction Center and the Labor
Bureau, had much less income than originally anticipated and were no longer in a position to
repay their portion of the ERP credit, or even to provide the necessary guarantees to the Finance
Bureau that they would be able to repay at some stage in the future. Without such guarantees the
Finance Bureau did not provide the required internal clearance for the activities to be undertaken.


4.1.11 These internal counterpart-funding issues were only brought to the attention of the Bank
in early 2002 (as the municipal PMO had hoped to find a solution without the involvement of the
Bank). With only five months remaining before the closure of the ERP (in June 2002), there was
insufficient time to take the necessary corrective actions, even assuming that there was the
political will at the municipal level to do so, and to undertake the procurement procedures and
implement the assignments. The significant changes of senior officials in the municipal
government responsible for this project (including the Vice-Mayor) also appeared to have a
significant negative impact on the implementation project.

4.1.12 Assessment for the two Additional Components. As noted above, the first additional
component -- the Snow disaster recovery component -- was reviewed and assessed in 2003 in a
separate implementation completion note in November 2003 (para. 4.1.1).

4.1.13 The second additional component -- SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Component
-- had made a number of contributions to the national program of infectious disease control, e.g.,
training activities and drills to improve capacity for clinical management of SARS and on hospital
infection control. Despite initial delays in the disbursement of project funds for this component,
project management had managed to address technical, financial and procurement challenges at
the provincial level to ensure progress and disbursement. At the closure of the project, this
component has successfully addressed the emergency needs for SARS-related diagnosis, clinical
management, and personal protection for 57 hospitals, centers for disease control and centers for


                                                         - 12 -

health promotion by provision of needed equipments, building up new wards for infectious
diseases, renovation of ventilation system and medical waste treatment system in three designated
infectious disease hospitals in Shanxi Province. Full assessment of the Program is expected in the
planned ICR for the Basic Heath Project in 2007 at the scheduled closure of this project.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 The ERP's outputs/activities by components are reviewed below. These were activities
financed by the ERP as part of the Reform Program. However, as some activities were initiated
by funding from PHRD and ASEM Trust Fund grants, these will be discussed where possible in
order to provide a complete picture.

Restructuring Models for Large/Medium Enterprises

4.2.2 In this sub-component, activities included the following: (i) Shenyang -- review of
enterprise reform strategy and restructuring and reform of selected Large and Medium Enterprises
(LMEs); and (ii) Wuhu -- restructuring and reform of selected LMEs. These activities were also
funded by two Trust Funds, as indicated below where available and appropriate.

4.2.3 Shenyang. The study on enterprise reform and industrial development, reviewing the
performance of some of Shenyang's large industrial SOEs and outlining a development plan for
the machinery equipment sector and propose overall strategy to reform Shenyang's state-owned
sector was completed in early 2001. Some revision of the proposals of the study was undertaken
following suggestions by the Bank and SETC, prior to implementation. However, project records
did not provide information on its implementation.

4.2.4 Studies of large enterprises were to be conducted, covering diagnostic assessments and
devise restructuring plans for several large and medium sized SOEs facing difficulties, aiming to
develop a number of enterprise reform "models," that could later be applied to help restructure a
large number of poor performing SOEs in Shenyang. However, because of the conflict between
the internal municipal repayment arrangements that stipulated that SOEs covered the cost of the
assignment themselves and the purpose of the project component which was to help restructure
poor-performing SOEs (which by definition lacked the ability to pay), no suitable SOE candidates
were identified.

4.2.5 A Bankruptcy Study to which the May 2001 supervision mission agreed and financed by
the PHRD was fully implemented. The study built on a report prepared by the World Bank on
SOE bankruptcy in China (19) and aimed to make recommendations to improve regulations and
practical implementation of bankruptcies in Shenyang, especially in dealing with settling of laid-off
workers, and disposal of assets in bankrupted enterprises. Bank staff reviewed the report and
discussed the findings with the Bankruptcy Office, which expressed full satisfaction with the study
and advised the mission that the study's recommendations were currently being implemented (20)
There was however no further documentation on the implementation nor the results.

(19)    World Bank, "Bankruptcy of State Enterprises in China- A Case and Agenda for Reforming the
Insolvency System," September 2000.



                                                   - 13 -

(20)    Aide-Memoire ­ China Enterprise Reform Program, January-February 2002.

4.2.6 Wuhu: Diagnostic studies and restructuring of large SOEs. This sub-component
represented a core part of the overall program. Three restructuring assignments were
implemented for the Hengxin (copper), Bonne (soap) and Guanghau (solar heater manufacturer)
Groups. The restructuring assignment for the Hengxin Group, financed from the PHRD grant
($70,000), was successfully implemented by the consulting firm Gallup. The company was
subsequently privatized with 94 percent of the shares sold to a private firm and 6 percent to
individuals. (21) The PMO advised that the consultant report helped to sell the company, as this
report was considered both informative and impartial. The restructuring of Hengxin was the
largest enterprise restructuring to date in Wuhu. The restructuring of the Bonne Group (funded
by the PHRD grant) was completed. The PMO expressed satisfaction with this work and
explained that the consulting company focused on the medium-long term strategy of Bonne. They
reported that the management of Bonne had a clear idea about its development direction and had
already implemented some of the recommendations of the consultant.

(21) The Wuhu authority sold Hengxin Group to an investment firm as part of a package and promised a good business
environment and favorable policies. The Wuhu authorities decided to package and sell Hengxin, rather than liquidate the
company in order to avoid the negative social implications of large numbers of lay-offs and detrimental impact on
"downstream" industries in the Wuhu area; and, because they were convinced that the company still had commercial potential.


4.2.7 Other restructuring activities which were on the planning board when the project closed
included Wuhu Crane and Transportation Machinery Factory, Wuhu Furnace Plant, Wuhu Jiuhua
Electronics Group, Guanghua Group and Wuhu Tianhua Plastic Company. Planned activities for
these three companies were underway but given the imminent closure of the ERP, were not
followed-up.

Management Development

4.2.8 Wuhu -- Training courses for managers/officials. The first phase of management training
was effectively complete (15 managers trained). All of the 50 managers that attended the MBA
training in Shanghai have returned to Wuhu, and most have been given a new, more senior,
assignment in their respective enterprises. According to Wuhu PMO 70 percent passed the MBA,
of those eligible to apply for the full MBA. Study for the second team of 27 management
students in the compressed MBA course was completed in June 2002. Other activities on training
and study tours were being planned in the beginning of 2002. However, by the time the project
closed in June, these activities did not materialize, given the lead time needed to organize study
tours and other training activities.

4.2.9 Training for laid-off workers. Financed by the ASEM grant, Wuhu implemented a
retraining program for laid-off workers in 2001-02. The retraining activities were implemented
and reports on the impact of these assignments were submitted to the Bank. A plan was
formulated to assess the impact of these efforts through a study comparing the rate of
re-employment of laid-off workers who did not receive training to those who had, but was not
implemented.




                                                          - 14 -

4.2.10 SME study. The Bank provided its no-objection to negotiate the contract for the design of
the strategy to support the development of Small and Medium Sized Enterprises in October 2000.
After a delay of more than one year, Bank staff was informed that this contract was signed in
early 2002. The consultant work was completed.

4.2.11 Implementation of SME strategy. Originally funding was allocated to implement the
recommendations from the above-mentioned study on ways to promote SMEs' development in
Shenyang. As the study was completed just prior to the closing date of the ERP, this
sub-component (to implement the recommendations of the study) was not carried out.

Re-training and Re-employment

4.2.12 Shenyang -- Most of the sub-components supporting the municipalities' retraining and
re-employment efforts were fully and satisfactorily implemented. The activities included: (i) a
study on the labor market information system completed in 1999, (ii) the development of
re-employment software for the Labor Department, implemented in July and August 2001; and
(iii) a study on enhancing the retraining capabilities for laid-off workers, completed in 1999.
However, there was no assessment of how these contributed to the work of the Labor
Department.

4.2.13 Additional funding was allocated for various activities to strengthen Shenyang Labor
Bureau efforts to retrain unemployed workers. However, because the Labor Bureau had no
means to repay their portion of the credit as required by the municipal government, this
sub-component was cancelled at their request. Bank staff sought unsuccessfully to change the
repayment requirement placed on the Labor Bureau.

4.2.14 Wuhu -- Connecting information networks for re-training/re-employment. The study on
Labor MIS was completed by the consultant (engaged under the ASEM Grant) and was used with
lessons learned from the study tour to Dalian and Chengdu in November 2001 as a basis for the
TOR to design Wuhu's integrated management information system (MIS) for human resources
and social security. The proposal to support this integrated MIS was prepared and discussed with
Bank staff in May-June 2001 with the understanding that the initiation of the procurement process
with the advertisement to solicit expressions of interest from potential consultants and the
preparation of a draft RFP was to be undertaken. However, because of internal issues in the
municipality, no progress was made until before the Bank mission in January 2002 when the Bank
received a draft short list and the RFP. Given the magnitude of the proposed project ($570,000,
which required a competitive bidding process) and the closing date of the ERP, this activity was
not carried out.

Development of Private Small & Medium Enterprises

4.2.15 Shenyang -- Enhancing the Property Rights Transaction Center (PRTC). The
implementation of all the components for the PRTC was highly unsatisfactory through the ERP.
The main reason appeared to be related to PRTC's ability to repay its loan. At the instruction of
the Shenyang Management Group (SMG), PRTC was no longer able to request fees from the



                                                - 15 -

state enterprises it was working with. As this source of income was greatly reduced and business
volumes lower than expected, PRTC had not paid back earlier loans to the Shenyang Financial
Bureau. Accordingly the Bureau had refused to authorize further assignments and there was
effectively no progress. In the 2002 supervision mission, Bank staff was advised that the program
could resume following a recent decision from the Director of the Economic and Trade
Commission (ETC). However, there was no forthcoming confirmation and this subcomponent
was subsequently cancelled.

4.2.16 The activity on transaction models for ownership transformation of SMEs was not
completed as the contract to carry out the work which was negotiated with the lowest qualified
bidder was never signed. The enhancement of the PRTC Information System component suffered
from revisions and changes in the initial agreed program and assignment to a request that
extensively broaden the coverage for the development of an information system for the ETC as a
whole in January 2002. As the project closed, this request never materialized. Training was
delayed as a result of lack of progress in the above activities.

4.2.17 Wuhu -- Advisory services for SMEs transformation and operation. Originally the
intention was to use the proceeds of the Credit to hire international consultants to manage the
Advisory Agency for the first year or two. However, due to delays at the outset of this program,
there was insufficient time remaining to fund long-term consultants under the project. The
municipal government financed the SME Advisory Company itself, staffed with locally recruited
experts. The new SME firm, named Kerui (or "create') completed one assignment for
medium-large size metal factory in Wuhu with reportedly a good outcome. Kerui was a joint
stock company, 20 percent privately owned and 80 percent owned by a subsidiary of Wuhu's
ETC, and five full-time employees. The intention was to support the Agency for 3 years to allow
it time to build its reputation then for the government to gradually withdraw its ownership. With
the establishment of this SME consulting firm, this component is effectively complete.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1. Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1. Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. The ERP did not have any noticeable institutional development impact in the two
participating municipalities, given the delays and the various issues and problems that plagued the
implementation of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The issues discussed below cover the original project on enterprise reform and do not necessarily
apply to the additional components.

5.1.1. The degree of unfamiliarity with Bank procedures among the municipalities adversely
affected the implementation of the ERP. Further, the need to clarify internal procedures,



                                                     - 16 -

especially concerning budget transfers and expenditures, and debt repayments within each
municipality and its relevant provincial authority contributed further to the delay in carrying out
the activities under the project.

5.1.2. There was also the question of coordination between each municipality and its related
agencies, the corresponding provincial authority and its administrative units, and SETC, including
the legal arrangement for on-lending which delayed the implementation of the project.

5.1.3 The change in the senior management of the municipalities had large impact on the
implementation of the ERP.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. The municipal governments were responsible for consultant procurements and terms of
reference for the studies to be prepared.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1. The PMOs for each of the municipalities were responsible for the processing and
coordination of consultant activities and carried out procurement services.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The original allocations were for the four initial components: Large/Medium Enterprises
Restructuring, $720,000.00; Management Development, 370,000.00; Re-Training and
Re-Employment, $800,000.00; and Development of Private SMEs, $180,000.00. However, the
total disbursement from the project for the above activities only amounted to US$207,650 as
these activities were closed on June 30, 2002.

5.4.2. As noted above, the proceeds of the ERP were allocated to the two new components.
The total disbursement for the snow disaster recovery operation amounted to US$2.2 million.
The SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program accounted for US$2.9 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. As noted throughout the ICR, the assessment on the sustainability only applies to the
original project. The sustainability for the ERP is rated unlikely by the ICR, in terms of the
original components which covered enterprise reform activities. The ERP project did not meet its
original development objectives and the activities that were actually completed did not contribute
to, advance, nor promote the enterprise reform program in the two remaining participating
municipalities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. There was no transition arrangement to regular operations.



                                                    - 17 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1. The Bank's performance in lending is rated as unsatisfactory in the original components of
the project covering the enterprise reform activities. While there was considerable effort to
ensure that the project be consistent with the overall package and program on enterprise reform,
there was not enough attention paid to the administration, coordination and cooperation among
the Bank and the municipalities, the provincial authorities and the Ministry of Finance to ensure
effective coordination and cooperation for the implementation of the activities funded by the
project.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. The reorganization of the Bank's unit responsible for the project adversely affected the
supervision at the initial stage with delay in the assignment of staff to work on this project.
Despite subsequent efforts on the part of the Bank staff to carry out supervision activities, these
were not enough to put the project back on sustainable track, not enough "hand-holding" for
these types of technical assistance, given the challenges in dealing with municipalities and their
own internal administrative units, the participants' unfamiliarity with Bank procedures and
guidelines, the diverse and numerous project activities to be implemented. Even when there were
only two participants remaining in the project, Bank staff faced difficulties in close supervision
due to the lack of time devoted to the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The overall Bank performance for the original components of the project is unsatisfactory.
The inadequate attention to the design and preparatory steps during the design stage, the lack of
attention during the initial implementation period and inadequate supervision of the project
contributed to the unsatisfactory outcome.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. The rating for the project preparation is unsatisfactory as many of the problems that
emerged later during implementation were not properly considered.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. The authorities' performance is rated as unsatisfactory. Coordination and cooperation
were problematic for the internal units of the municipalities, leading to substantial delays and few
activities completed at the closure of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. The performance of the implementing agency at each of the municipality is rated as
unsatisfactory, given the lack of timely coordination and cooperation with Bank staff to resolve



                                                 - 18 -

the obstacles.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. The overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory for the ERP project with most of the
activities incomplete.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1.    The major lessons are:

·       For a technical assistance project of this nature, Bank staff need to devote more time to
prepare and design better the activities to be funded by the project. The ERP results show there
was a lack of attention to the preparatory steps ­ and indeed some oversight in procedures -- that
subsequently affected the implementation and supervision of the project.
·       Careful design should be carried out for projects which are part of an overall package of
assistance, especially with the sequencing of activities to be implemented and the coverage of each
project in the package. The ERP suffered from the problem of sequencing and coverage for
activities it was supposed to cover and finance and also between the participating entities. Delays
in the implementation of activities funded by Trust Funds affected subsequent or follow-up
activities.
·       Adequate supervision activities are needed for projects with a dominant TA component
and with many participating entities so that there is better guidance, coordination, and
cooperation with the counterparts to overcome obstacles and difficulties in timely manner. The
ERP experience shows that important issues and problems did not come to the Bank's attention in
a timely manner.
·       There should have been an effort to prepare the implementation report to assess the
original activities of the ERP before management decided to reallocate the proceeds to
accommodate new components. The ERP experience showed that an ICR prepared long after the
project activities were closed (a period of four years, from June 2002 to June 2006) was a difficult
process as former task managers had moved on or no longer work in the Bank. Institutional
memories were inadequate to prepare an accurate assessment and learned lessons.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Note: The draft ICR was provided to the Borrower for review and comments.

(b) Cofinanciers:
none

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
none

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                        Outcome / Impact Indicators:

Project Development Objectives         Output Indicators/Results              Impacts of Project Activities
Identify and adapt potential           Selected enterprise reform measures    No impacts as the activities which
improvements in enterprise reform      in each of four components:            were to be supported by the project
methods to local circumstances, test   a. customized to local circumstances were not completed.
their feasibility through pilot        b. implemented as test
implementation, and make these         c. analyzed results
lessons widely known among central d. revisited if not found successful
and local policy-makers, and replicate e. lessons disseminated
them beyond the project
Component 1. Restructuring Models a. test various forms of corporate          No impact
for Large and Medium Enterprises       restructuring of medium to large
                                       enterprises
                                       b. develop model approaches
                                       c. identification of appropriate
                                       restructuring methods for selected
                                       enterprises
                                       d. adapt these methods to local
                                       circumstances
Component 2. Management                a. workshops for enterprise managers Some workshops were organized by
Development                            and officials in each participating    WBI.
                                       municipality, as well as centrally
                                       b. training activities specific to each
                                       individual city
Component 3. Re-Training and           a. provision of better information and Some activities were complete but
Re-Employment                          forecasting capability on future       others were not carried out.
                                       employment opportunities to
                                       re-training centers.
                                       b. Review of local strategy for
                                       re-training and target it better at
                                       long-term areas for employment
                                       growth.
                                       c. provision of training and material
                                       for laid-off people to start up their
                                       own business
Component 4. Development of            a. develop strategy to promote the     Some activities were implemented in
Private SMEs..                         development of SMEs among the          the two participating municipalities
                                       municipalities                         for a better environment for the
                                                                              development of SMEs.




                                                        - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                 Project Cost by Component
                                                      (in US$ thousand equivalent)

                      Project Cost by Component                                  Appraisal       Actual/       Percentag
                                                                                 Estimate        Latest             e of
                                                                                                Estimate        Appraisal
Restructuring Models for Large/Medium Enterprises (LMEs)
 Changsha ­ Model methods for LME transformation                                    700
 Shenyang ­ Review of enterprise reform strategy                                    100
              Restructuring and reform of selected LMEs                             510
 Wuhan ­ Restructuring and reform of selected LMEs                                  250
 Wuhu ­ Restructuring and reform of selected LMEs                                   350
Management Development
 Changsha ­ Development of distance training and toolkits                            50
              Executive recruitment and development                                 150
 Shenyang ­ none                                                                     -
 Wuhan ­ Secondments & study visits for managers/officials                          800
 Wuhu ­ Training courses for managers/officials                                     300
Re-Training and Re-Employment
 Changsha ­ Connecting info networks for re-training/re-employment                  150
 Shenyang ­ Connecting info networks for re-training/re-employment                  100           60.0             60.0
              Advice on industrial policy and info dissemination                    300
 Wuhan ­ none                                                                        -
 Wuhu ­ Connecting info networks for re-training/re-employment                      350
Development of Private Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs)
 Changsha ­ Ownership transformation of SMEs                                        100
 Shenyang ­ Enhancing the Property Rights Transaction Center                        140           147.6
               Advice on industrial policy and info dissemination                   100
               Creation of conducive environment for SMEs                           170
               Post-privatization assistance for SMEs                               130
 Wuhan ­ none                                                                        -
 Wuhu ­ Advisory services for SME transformation and operation                      250


Additional Components


Snow disaster recovery emergency operation                                           0           2,160.1            Na


Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and infectious diseases                     0           2,874.6            Na
response program


Total Project Costs                                                                5,000        5,242.3
Note:
1.        Details may not add to total due to rounding.
2.        Due to the movements of the exchange rate, the project's amount at the approval stage was different than that at the
closing stage.




                                                           - 21 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)


Expenditure category                                                   Procurement Method           Total
                                                                 ICB     NCB       Other    NBF      Cost
1. Consultant service                                                              3.150    2.335   5.575
                                                                                  (3.150)  (0.000)  (3.15)
2. Training and study tours                                                        1.720    0.685   2.565
                                                                                  (1.720)  (0.00)   (1.850)
3. Equipment

Total                                                                              5.000    3.020   8.140
                                                                                  (5.000)  (0.000)  (5.00)
Note:
1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.
2. Figures in parenthesis are the amount financed by IDA credit.



                                                                      Procurement Method
Expenditure category                                                                                Total
                                                                 ICB    NCB       Other    NBF       Cost
1. Consultant service                                                              0.148            0.148
2. Training                                                                        0.073            0.073
3. Equipment/Goods                                                                 2.520            2.520
4. Works                                                                           2.501            5.201
Total                                                                                               5.242
Note:
1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.




                                                              - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                          No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                              (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year        Count              Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               Feb-Mar 1999                      5     1 TM, 1 Economist, 1 PSD               S               S
                                                       Specialist, 1 FM specialist, 1
                                                       SOE restructuring Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               May 1999                          5     1 TM, 1 PSD Specialist, 1              S               S
                                                       FM specialist, 1 Legal
                                                       Counsel, 1 Procurement
                                                       Specialist


 Supervision

               06/29/2000                         2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  S               S
                                                       ENTERPRISE REFORM SPEC
                                                       (1)
               11/07/2000                         1    ENTERPRISE REF. SPEC (1)               U               S
               05/19/2001                         3    TEAM LEADER (1); TEAM                  S               S
                                                       MEMBER (1); TEAM
                                                       ASSISTANT (1)
               02/08/2002                         4    ENTERPRISE REFORM (2);                 U               U
                                                       LABOR (1); ASSISTANT (1)
               04/14/2002                         2    ECONOMIST & TL (1);                    U               U
                                                       OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               Oct 2002                           3    1 TM,1 PSD Specialist, 1               U               U
                                                       Enterprise Restructuring
                                                       Specialist

 ICR
               No mission



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         (1)                              (1)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        61.4 (2)                        192.3 (2)
  Supervision                                      92.4                             277.2
  ICR                                              12.0                              35.0
  Total                                           168.5                             504.5
Note:
         (1) Figures for Identification/Preparation are included in Appraisal/Negotiation.
         (2) Figures include both Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation.




                                                       - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                             Rating
  Macro policies                            H      SU     M       N      NA
  Sector Policies                           H      SU     M       N      NA
  Physical                                  H      SU     M       N      NA
  Financial                                 H      SU     M       N      NA
  Institutional Development                 H      SU     M       N      NA
  Environmental                             H      SU     M       N      NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction                H      SU     M       N      NA
           Gender                           H      SU     M       N      NA
           Other (Please specify)           H      SU     M       N      NA
  Private sector development                H      SU     M       N      NA
  Public sector management                  H      SU     M       N      NA
  Other (Please specify)                    H      SU     M       N      NA
Note:

1. The above ratings apply only to the four original components of the project which cover enterprise reform
   activities in the four, then two, participating municipalities. These were closed for all practical purposes on
   June 30, 2002.
2. The rating for the first additional component on snow emergency recovery operation can be found in its own
   ICR, Implementation Completion Note on the Xinjang Uyghur (Altai) Snow Disaster Recovery Component
   and Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Snow Disaster Recovery Component, Report No. 27454, November 2003.
3. The rating for the second additional component on SARS and Infectious Disease Program is satisfactory,
   concerning the activities funded from the proceeds of this project which are now completed. The overall
   review of this program can be found in the documents of the Basic Health Services Project (Task P003566 ) as
   this program is still on-going at the writing of this document




                                                        - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                                Rating

   Lending                                          HS      S       U      HU
   Supervision                                      HS      S       U      HU
   Overall                                          HS      S       U      HU


6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating

   Preparation                                      HS      S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance            HS      S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                HS      S       U      HU
   Overall                                          HS      S       U      HU


Note:

1   The overall and individual ICR ratings for the Bank performance in this project are marginally satisfactory.
    But since the ICR rating system alows no such rating, Bank's performance was recorded as "S" above.

2.  The above ratings apply only to the four original components of the project which cover enterprise reform
    activities in the four, then two, participating municipalities. These were closed for all practical purposes on
    June 30, 2002.

3.  The rating for the first additional component on snow emergency recovery operation can be found in its own
    ICR, Implementation Completion Note on the Xinjang Uyghur (Altai) Snow Disaster Recovery Component
    and Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Snow Disaster Recovery Component, Report No. 27454, November 2003.

4.  The rating for the second additional component on SARS and Infectious Disease Program is satisfactory,
    concerning the activities funded from the proceeds of this project which are now completed. The overall
    review of this program can be found in the documents of the Basic Health Services Project (Task P003566 ) as
    this program is still on-going at the writing of this document.




                                                         - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 27 -

- 28 -

