Page  1
December 6, 2001
Ms. Zou Jiayi
Acting Director General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Baijing
People’s Republic of China
Dear  Ms. Zou:
Re:
Enterprise Reform Project (Cr 3271-CHA)
A Snow Disaster Recovery Component
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
1.
I refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association), 
dated December 30, 1999 (the Development Credit Agreement), pursuant to which the 
Association agreed to extend a credit to the Borrower (the Credit) to assist in the 
financing of the Enterprise Reform Project (the Project).  I also refer to the letter 
dated August 2, 2001 from the Deputy Director-General, International Department, 
Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Borrower, requesting amendments to the 
Development Credit Agreement in order to allow a portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
to be utilized to assist in financing the most urgent needs of areas of Tacheng 
Prefecture of the Borrower’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) severely 
affected by recent drought and snowstorms.
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Association concurs with the Borrower’s  
proposal and hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement as hereinafter 
provided.
3.
The recitals are amended by the addition of a second paragraph between the first 
and second paragraphs to read as follows:
"WHEREAS
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by 
the municipalities of Shenyang and Wuhu (each, a Project City, and together, 
the Project Cities) and Part E of the Project will be carried out by Xinjiang 
Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR); and"
4.
The first paragraph of Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
"Section 1.01.
The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:"
5.
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
"Project Cities" means, collectively, Shenyang and Wuhu; and 
"Project City" means, individually, either of the Project Cities.
(c)
"Project Implementation Arrangement" means, in respect, of each 
Project City, the arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and said 
Project City in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as said arrangement may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements or arrangements supplemental to the 
Project Implementation Arrangement; and "Project Implementation Arrangements" 
means, 
Page  2
collectively, all of said arrangements.
(d)
"Respective Part of the Project" means: (i) in respect of each 
Project City, the activities to be carried out by said Project City under 
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project; and (ii) in respect of XUAR, the 
activities to be carried out by XUAR under Part E of the Project.
(e) 
"Recovery Project Areas" means the following areas of Tacheng 
Prefecture of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region severely affected by drought 
and snowstorms: Emin County, Hefeng County, Tacheng City, Tuoli County and 
Yumin County.
(f)
"Shenyang" means Shenyang Municipality of the Borrower’s Liaoning 
Province, and any successor thereto.
(g)
"Shenyang Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b)(i) of this Agreement.
(h)
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, the Shenyang Special 
Account, the Wuhu Special Account and the Xinjiang (Tacheng) Special Account.
(i)
"Tacheng" means Tacheng Prefecture of the Xinjiang Uyghur 
Autonomous Region, and any successor thereto.
(j)
"Wuhu" means Wuhu Municipality of the Borrower’s Anhui Province, 
and any successor thereto.
(k)
"Wuhu Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b)(ii) of this Agreement.
(l)
"Xinjiang" and "XUAR" means the Borrower’s Xinjiang Uyghur 
Autonomous Region, any successor thereto.
(m)
"Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Project Agreement" means the agreement 
to be entered into between the Association and Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous 
Region, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) 
Project Agreement.
(n)
"Xinjiang (Tacheng) Special Account" means the account referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b)(iii) of this Agreement."
6.
Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
"(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars the following three special deposit accounts in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) one such account for the purposes of 
Shenyang’s Respective Part of the Project (the Shenyang Special Account); (ii) 
one 
such account for purposes of Wuhu’s Respective Part of the Project (the 
Wuhu 
Special Account); and (iii) one such account for purposes of XUAR’ 
Respective Part of the Project. Deposits into and payments out of the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement."
7.
Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.01 (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, 
to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, shall: (i) cause the 
Project Cities to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
economic, and financial practices; (ii) cause XUAR to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Project Agreement all the 
obligations of XUAR therein set forth; and (iii) take and cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project Cities and XUAR 
Mongolia to perform their respective obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be 
Page  3
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
For purposes of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower 
shall make available to each Project City through its respective province a 
portion of the proceeds of the Credit under a Project Implementation  
Arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and said project City 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association 
and which are set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
For purposes of Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall make 
available to XUAR a portion of the proceeds of the Credit equivalent in terms 
of SDR (determined on the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Credit Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on 
account of the cost of goods and services required for Part E of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (the Credit Amount), 
under the following terms and conditions: 
(i)
the Borrower shall recover from XUAR the Credit Amount in 
semi-annual instalments over a period of ten (10) years 
inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years;
(ii)
the Borrower shall charge XUAR a service charge on the 
Credit  Amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
at a rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge XUAR a commitment fee on the 
principal amount of the Credit so made available and 
remaining unwithdrawn from time to time at the rate of 
one-half of one percent (0.5%);
(iv)
XUAR shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
8.
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.02.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (a) 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for Parts 
A, B, C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and (b) procurement of the goods and works, required for Part E of the Project 
and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Project Agreement."
9.
The introductory paragraph of Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement 
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.04.  In respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, for 
the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower shall:"
10.
A new Section 3.05 is added to Article III of the Development Credit Agreement 
as follows:
"Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans 
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) shall be carried out by XUAR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Project Agreement."
11.
The introductory paragraph of Section 4.01 (c) of the Development Credit 
Agreement and clause (i) of said Section are amended to read as follows:
"(c)
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the respective province of each 
Project City and XUAR, as the case may be, to:
(i)
have the records and accounts for the respective Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;"
12.
Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the addition of a 
new paragraph (b), by re-numbering paragraph (b) as paragraph (c) and amending it as 
Page  4
follows:
"(b)
XUAR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that any party to any of the Project 
Implementation Arrangements will be able to perform its obligations 
thereunder,  or that XUAR will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Project Agreement."
13.
Section 5.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional event is specified, namely any event specified in 
paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by 
the Association to the Borrower."
14.
The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 Amount of the
Credit Expressed
   % of
   (in SDR
Expenditures
Category
Equivalent
Financed
(1)
Shenyang’s Respective
100% 
Part of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ services
850,000
(b)
Training
300,000
(2)
Wuhu’s Respective Part of the 
100%
of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ services
540,000
(b)
Training
380,000
(3)
XUAR’s Respective Part
of the Project
(a)
Works
    1,528,000
65%
(b)
Goods
 77,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 75% 
of
expenditures for other 
items 
procured locally
(c)
Training
 25,000
100%
TOTAL
    3,700,000
15.
(a) A new paragraph 2 is added to Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; (b) paragraphs 2 and 3 are re-numbered accordingly; and (c) the re-numbered 
paragraph 4 is amended; all as follows:
"2.
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said 
region 
Page  5
and expenditures in the currency of the Macau Special Administrative 
Region 
of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall 
be 
deemed "foreign expenditures"; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures."
"4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditures:
(a)
in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, for: (i) 
training, regardless of the cost thereof; (ii) consultants’ services under 
contracts awarded to firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, other 
than the first three (3) contracts awarded to a firm in Shenyang and the first 
five (5) contracts awarded to a firm in Wuhu; and (iii) consultants’ services 
under 
contracts awarded to individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each, 
other than the first three (3) contracts awarded to an individual in 
Shenyang and the first five (5) contracts awarded to an individual in Wuhu;
(b)
in respect of Part E of the Project, for: (i) works under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) training;
in each case under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower."
16.
The first paragraph of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows:
"The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (a) to learn 
from innovative methods for the reform of the Borrower’s state-owned 
enterprises through (i) adaptation of potential improvements in enterprise 
reform methods to local circumstances, (ii) implementation of such 
improvements on a pilot basis and (iii) dissemination of lessons learned; and 
(b) to 
restore social and economic infrastructure critical to the lives of 
herders devastated by an unusually severe snowstorm in Tacheng Prefecture of 
the Borrower’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, and to enhance and 
strengthen the disaster response capacity of the affected herders."
17.
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by adding a new Part E 
after Part D thereof, as follows:
"Part E:
Snow Disaster Recovery
1.
Restoration and rehabilitation of livestock sheds in the Recovery 
Project Areas.
2.
Pasture rehabilitation including carrying out small pasture 
rehabilitation, development of sown pasture, supply of forage handling 
equipment and storage facilities, and improvement of water supply through 
gravity-fed irrigation, in the Recovery Project Areas.
3.
Carrying out a program of institutional strengthening through: (a) the 
provision of technical assistance to improve grassland management, and enhance 
disbursement, procurement, and evaluation and monitoring activities; and (b) 
the provision of office equipment."
18.
The last line of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: "The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2002."
19.
The title of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read 
as follows: "Procurement under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project."
20.
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by: (a) substituting 
the term "Special Accounts" for the term "Special Account" in the title thereof; (b) 
substituting the term "respective Special Account" for the term "Special Account" 
wherever the latter is used in the Schedule; and (c) amending Paragraph 1 to read as 
follows:
"1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in respect of the 
Page  6
Shenyang Special Account, Category (1); (ii) in respect of the Wuhu Special 
Account, Category (2); and (iii) in respect of the Xinjiang (Tacheng) Special 
Account, Category (3);
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the  Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect of the 
Shenyang Special Account, an amount equivalent to $155,000; (ii) in respect of 
the Wuhu Special Account, an amount equivalent to $125,000; and in respect of 
the 
Xinjiang (Tacheng) Special Account, an amount equivalent to $500,000; in 
each 
case to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule."
21.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
for Part E of the Project prior to the date of effectiveness of this letter of 
amendment except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 326,000 may 
be made in respect of Categories (3)(a), (3)(b) and (3)(c) on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after July 26, 2001.
22.
The Association further agrees to establish May 31, 2003 as the later date for 
purposes of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, but only in regard to 
Part E of the Project and in respect of Category 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
23.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendments set forth in 
paragraphs 3 through 22 above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of 
confirmation set forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this 
amendment letter to us.  One fully signed original should be retained by the Borrower.
24.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Association of: 
(a) the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized 
representative of the Borrower; (b) the Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Project Agreement, 
duly countersigned by the authorized representative of XUAR; and (c) evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that the Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by XUAR and is legally binding upon XUAR in 
accordance with its terms; the above amendments and the Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) 
Project Agreement, shall become effective as of the date of countersignature of this 
letter of amendment or the date of countersignature of the Xinjiang Uyghur (Tacheng) 
Project Agreement, whichever is later.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Authorized Representative
Date: December 6, 2001
