Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3271 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Enterprise Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3271 CHA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1999, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to 
Page  2
read as follows:
“(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, 
on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association 
of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement 
and the accomplishment of  the purposes of the Credit.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in this 
Agreement: 
(a)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
“Changsha” means Changsha Municipality of Borrower’s Hunan Province, and 
any successor thereto. 
(c)
“Project Cities” means, collectively, Changsha, Shenyang, Wuhan and Wuhu; 
and “Project City” means, individually, any of the Project Cities. 
(d)
“Project Implementation Arrangement” means, in respect of each Project 
City, the arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and said Project City in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as said 
arrangement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements or arrangements supplemental to the Project Implementation Arrangement; and 
“Project Implementation Arrangements” means, collectively, all of said arrangements.
(e)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of each Project City, 
the activities to be carried out by said Project City under the Project. 
(f)
“Shenyang” means Shenyang Municipality of the Borrower’s Liaoning 
Province, and any successor thereto.  
(g)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(h)
“Wuhan” means Wuhan Municipality of the Borrower’s Hubei Province, and 
any successor thereto. 
(i)
“Wuhu” means Wuhu Municipality of the Borrower’s Anhui Province, and any 
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars the following four special deposit accounts, each in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association: (i) one such account for the purposes of Changsha’s Respective Part of 
the Project (the Changsha Special Account); (ii) one such account for the purposes of 
Page  3
Shenyang’s Respective Part of the Project (the Shenyang Special Account); (iii) one 
such account for the purposes of Wuhan’s Respective Part of the Project (the Wuhan 
Special Account); and (iv) one such account for the purposes of Wuhu's Respective Part 
of the Project (the Wuhu Special Account).  Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2009 and ending June 1, 2034.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2019 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
Page  4
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Project Cities to carry out their Respective Parts 
of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Project City through its 
respective province a portion of the proceeds of the Credit under a Project 
Implementation Arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and said Project 
City under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and 
which are set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
(i)
cause each Project City to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Arrangement to which it is a party, all of 
its obligations therein set forth;  (ii) take or cause to be taken all action 
necessary or appropriate to enable said Project City to perform such obligations; and 
(iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance; and 
(b)
exercise its rights under each of the Project Implementation Arrangements 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Project Implementation 
Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan, consolidating the plans prepared by the Project Cities and 
furnished to the Borrower pursuant to each Project City’s respective Project 
Implementation Arrangement and paragraph B.6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association: 
(a)
semi-annual reports, not later than March 15 and September 15 in each 
Page  5
year, beginning March 15, 2000, consolidating the reports prepared by the Project 
Cities and furnished to the Borrower pursuant to each Project City’s respective 
Project Implementation Arrangement and paragraph B.5(b)(i) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than September 15, 2000, consolidating the 
reports prepared by the Project Cities and furnished to the Borrower pursuant to each 
Project City’s Project Implementation Arrangement and paragraph B.5(b)(ii) of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Cities to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of said Project City responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Cities to: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
The Borrower shall or shall cause the respective province of each Project 
City to: 
(i)
have the records and accounts for the Special Account for its 
respective Project 
City for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any party to any of the Project Implementation Arrangements shall have 
failed to perform its obligations thereunder. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any party to any of the Project Implementation Arrangements 
will be able to perform its obligations thereunder. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that a Project Implementation Arrangement has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and each Project City. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Project Implementation 
Arrangement between the Borrower and each Project City has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and said Project City and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and said Project City in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
Page  7
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN Beijing 
22486 
MFPRC CN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Changsha's
100%
Respective Part
of the Project
(a) Consultants'
    760,000
services
(b) Training
     90,000
(2)
Shenyang's
100%
Respective Part
of the Project
(a) Consultants'
    850,000
services
(b) Training
    300,000
(3)
Wuhan's Respective
100%
Part of the Project
Page  8
(a) Consultants'
    190,000
services
(b) Training
    590,000
(4)
Wuhu's Respective
100%
Part of the Project
(a) Consultants'
    540,000
services
(b) Training
    380,000
TOTAL
  3,700,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 370,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after May 1, 1999.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  
(a)
training, regardless of the cost thereof; 
(b)
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each, other than the first three (3) contracts awarded to a firm 
in Shenyang and the first five (5) contracts awarded to a firm in each of Changsha, 
Wuhan and Wuhu; and 
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to individuals costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each, other than the first three (3) contracts awarded to an 
individual in Shenyang and the first five (5) contracts awarded to an individual in 
each of Changsha, Wuhan and Wuhu; in each case under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to learn from innovative methods for the reform 
of the Borrower’s state owned enterprise sector through: (i) adaptation of potential 
improvements in enterprise reform methods to local circumstances, (ii) implementation 
of such improvements on a pilot basis; and (iii) dissemination of lessons learned.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Restructuring of Large and Medium Enterprises 
1.
Carrying out in the Project Cities of diagnostic assessments and pilot 
restructuring of selected large and medium state owned enterprises through methods 
adapted to local circumstances. 
2.
Strengthening of municipal enterprise reform strategies in the Project Cities to 
facilitate enterprise restructuring to improve enterprise governance.
Part B:
Management Development
1.
Carrying out of training programs in enterprise management and restructuring in 
the Project Cities for enterprise managers and municipal officials. 
2.
Development of policies, institutions and materials for the provision of 
distance training to enterprise managers and municipal officials in enterprise 
management and restructuring. 
3.
Carrying out of pilot programs for the recruitment, selection, development and 
motivation of enterprise executives. 
Page  9
Part C:
Re-training and Re-employment 
1.
Design of information systems, including software development, to connect labor 
sources, employers and re-training centers in the Project Cities. 
2.
Strengthening of re-training and re-employment strategies in the Project Cities 
to facilitate re-employment in existing enterprises and enterprise creation by 
laid-off workers.  
3.
Carrying out of a training program for trainers in re-training programs, 
development of training materials, and provision of training to laid-off workers in 
basic entrepreneurial business skills.
Part D:
Development of Private Small and Medium Enterprises 
1.
Development of recommendations for policy reforms in the Project Cities to 
facilitate the formation and operation of private small and medium enterprises. 
2.
Development and implementation in the Project Cities of policies, methods and 
processes, for the support of state owned small and medium enterprise ownership 
transformation. 
3.
Development of advisory mechanisms, training materials and model documents for 
ownership transformation and operation of small and medium enterprises. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and in January 1999, and the following provisions of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
Page  10
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and, regardless of the cost 
thereof, the first three (3) contracts for the employment of a consulting firm for 
Shenyang and the first five (5) contracts for the employment of a consulting firm for 
each of Changsha, Wuhan and Wuhu, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and, regardless of the 
cost thereof, the first three (3) contracts for the employment of an individual 
consultant for Shenyang and the first five (5) contracts for the employment of an 
individual consultant for each of Changsha, Wuhan and Wuhu, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means:  (i) in respect of the Changsha 
Special Account, Category (1); (ii) in respect of the Shenyang Special Account, 
Category (2); (iii) in respect of the Wuhan Special Account, Category (3); and (iv) in 
respect of the Wuhu Special Account, Category (4); 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect of the Changsha 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $115,000; (ii) in respect of the Shenyang 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $155,000; (iii) in respect of the Wuhan 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $105,000; and (iv) in respect of the Wuhu 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $125,000; in each case to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and deposited into the respective Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Page  11
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to 
that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for that Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
for that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  12
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5 
Project Implementation Arrangements 
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
A.
Terms of each Project City’s Credit Amount 
1.
The principal amount of the proceeds of the Credit to be made available to a 
Project City through its respective province under the Project Implementation 
Arrangement to which it is a party shall be the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined 
on the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of the cost of goods and services 
required for said Project City’s Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit (the Credit Amount).
2.
Each Project City’s Credit Amount shall be recovered by the Borrower from such 
Project City through its respective province in semi-annual installments over a period 
of seventeen (17) years, including five (5) years of grace.  
3.
A service charge shall be charged on each Project City’s Credit Amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum. 
4.
A commitment charge shall be charged on the principal amount of the Credit made 
available to each Project City and not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
B.
Conditions of Availability of each Project City’s Credit Amount
The Borrower shall make each Project City’s Credit Amount available pursuant to 
a Project Implementation Arrangement, which shall include the following terms and 
conditions: 
1.
Project Management.  Each Project City shall maintain throughout the period of 
Project implementation, a project management office established with terms of 
reference and budgetary resources acceptable to the Association and with competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
2.
Project Implementation.  Each Project City shall: 
Page  13
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association no later than October 15 in each 
year, commencing October 15, 1999, for the Association’s review and approval, an 
annual implementation program for its Respective Part of the Project; 
(b)
thereafter carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance 
with said work plan as so approved and with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and technical 
practices, and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for its Respective Part of the 
Project; and 
(c)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by said Project City 
of its obligations under the Project Implementation Arrangement to which it is a 
party. 
3.
Procurement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Project City 
shall ensure that procurement of the consultants’ services required for its Respective 
Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
4.
Financial Covenants.  Each Project City shall: 
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project;
(b)
have its records and accounts, including the records and accounts for its 
respective Special Account, for each year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; 
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request; and 
(e)
for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, (i) maintain, in 
accordance with subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Association’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
5.
Monitoring and Reporting.  Each Project City shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying 
out of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Borrower for consolidation and forwarding to the Association in 
accordance with Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement:
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later than March 15 and September 15 in 
Page  14
each year, 
beginning March 15, 2000, summarizing the monitoring 
and evaluation activities 
performed by it pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph in respect of the 
preceding calendar 
semester and setting forth the physical and financial progress 
in the implementation of its Respective Part of the Project, both cumulatively, and 
in respect of the said preceding calendar semester;
(ii)
a mid-term report, not later than September 15, 2000, integrating 
the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of its Respective Part 
of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective 
Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
promptly review with the Association the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of its Respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
6.
Project Completion.  Each Project City shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Borrower not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and such Project 
City, for consolidation and forwarding to the Association pursuant to Section 3.04 of 
the Development Credit Agreement, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement 
of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
said Project City on said plan.
