Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21299-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.8 MILLION
(US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT
November 17, 2000
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 12, 2000)
Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (TK)
TK 54 = USS1.0
US$0.0185 = Taka 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS                 Acquired Irmune Deficiency Syndrome
ARI                  Acute Respiratory Infection
BCC                  Behavior Change Communication
BDO                  Bangladesh Dhaka Office (World Bank)
BINP                 Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project
C&AG                 Comptroller and Auditor General
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CHT                  Chittagong Hill Tracts
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
CSW                  Commercial Sex Worker
DfID                 Departmnent for International Development (United Kingdom)
DGHS                 Director General Health Services
DHS                  Demographic Health Survey
EMP                  Environmental Management Plan
ESP                  Essential Services Package
FY                   Fiscal Year
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GIS                  Geographic Information System
GOB                  Govemment of Bangladesh
HIV                  Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HPSP                 Health and Population Sector Program
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
ICDDR,B              International Center for Diafrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh
IDA                  International Development Association (World Bank)
IDU                  Injecting Drug User
IEC                  Information Education Communication
IEDCR                Institute for Epidemiology and Disease Control Research
LD                   Line Director
MAU                  Management Account Unit
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MMR                  Maternal Mortality Ratio
MOHFW                Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NAC                  National AIDS Committee
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NNP                  National Nutrition Program
RIBEC                Reforms in Budgeting and Expenditure Control
SIP                  Strategic Implementation Plan
STI/STD              Sexually Trasmitted Infection/Disease
TA                   Technical Assistance
TB                   Tuberculosis
UNAIDS               Joint United Nations Program on HIVIAIDS
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UNFPA                United Nations Population Fund
USAID                United States Agency for Intenational Development
WHO                  World Health Organization
Vice President:   Mfieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Frederick Tomas Temple
Sector Manager/Director    Richard Lee Skolnik
Sector Leader    Jagmohan S. Kang
Task Team Leader:   Wm. Bradford Herbert



BANGLADESH
H1V/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    5
C. Project Description Sunmmary
1. Project components                                                                    8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        10
3. Benefits and target population                                                       10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             15
2. Financial                                                                            16
3. Technical                                                                            17
4. Institutional                                                                        18
5. Environmental                                                                        20
6. Social                                                                               21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       23
2. Critical risks                                                                       24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       26



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           27
2. Other                                                                             27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary    44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           70
MAP(S)



BANGLADESH
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SACSL
Date: October 12, 2000                            Team Leader: William B. Herbert
Country Manager/Director: Frederick Thomas Temple   Sector Manager/Director: Richard Lee Skolnik
Project ID: P069933                               Sector(s): HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
El Loan        1 Credit        [I Grant        EI Guarantee    D Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $40.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.00                                  Service charge: 0.75%
FInancingI?lan: .   iSource.                                L ocal                        T-
GOVERNMENT                                                     2.59           0.00           2.59
IDA                                                           38.60            1.40         40.00
BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                           9.65           0.35          10.00
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                                        50.84           1.75          52.59
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH & FAMILY WELFARE
Directorate General of Health Services
Address: Mohakhali, Dhaka-1212
Contact Person: Mr. M. A. Baqui, Director, Primary Health Care, and Line Director, Essential Services Package (ESP)
Tel: 880-2-8811741                Fax: 880-2-9886415                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2001    ,  0          203 . 2004 
Annual    0.90        9.80      12.00      16.70      0.60
Cumulative    0.90       10.70     22.70      39.40      40.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS PAD F-m R. M-h. 2DO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Bangladesh has a narrow window of opportunity to prevent an HIV/AIDS epidemic. Preventing an
outbreak of the epidemic, however, will only be possible if vigorous action is taken immediately.
The objective of the proposed project would be to assist the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) to prevent
the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection from gaining a larger foothold within high risk groups
and to limit its spread into the general population, without stigmatizing the high risk groups. It would form
an integral part of the Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP), and would seek to complement and
facilitate HIV/AIDS prevention activities underway within HPSP, as well as supplement work carried out
by non-governmental organizations (NGOs). It would do so by (a) scaling-up, in the shortest possible time,
successful NGO programs which target groups at high risk of contracting and spreading the disease; (b)
expanding awareness raising and advocacy for the general population, policy makers and selected groups
vulnerable to HIV infection; and (c) strengthening GOB capacity to respond effectively to HIV and AIDS
in a small number of priority areas, including blood safety, project management, surveillance, monitoring
and evaluation, and operational research.
There was agreement early during project preparation that, given the need to rapidly scale-up the response
to HIV/AIDS, the project would not need to be fully elaborated by project effectiveness. Priority would be
given to preparing and immediately expanding intervention programs among groups at high risk.
Preparation of additional project activities would be finalized by the end of Year 1 of project
implementation. Details of activities for the years two to four will be worked out and annexed to this
document by GOB by October 31, 2001.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key outcome indicators for monitoring progress would include: the reduction of the spread of HIV/AIDS
within high risk groups, measured by the stabilization of HIV prevalence and syphilis prevalence, as
indicated by the annual sentinel surveillance survey; an increase in coverage of high risk groups with
programs such as peer counseling, condom promotion, and sexually transmitted disease (STD) treatment;
greater awareness among the public about HIV/AIDS infection and prevention; an increased number of
functioning blood testing facilities; and a strengthened STD/AIDS Program with ongoing monitoring and
evaluation, and NGO procurement.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17453-BD        Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/31/1998
Progress report discussed on 07/20/1999
The CAS
The proposed operation is fully consonant with the over-riding CAS objective of assisting Bangladesh to
reduce poverty. The CAS highlights the promotion of human development (health, nutrition and
population, as well as education) as a key priority of IDA's assistance strategy.
- 2 -



HIV/AIDS
HIV/AIDS is likely to become a major deveiopment challenge in Bangladesh, and threatens the country's
achievements in reducing poverty and raising the quality of life. Experience from various regions,
including neighboring countries in Asia, has demonstrated that an HIV/AIDS epidemic reduces life
expectancy, increases the demand for medical care, including from the public sector--thus drawing away
resources from other important health and education investments--and exacerbates poverty and inequality.
While the HIV/AIDS epidemic is still at an early stage in Bangladesh, patterns of behavior which facilitate
a rapid spread of the infection are widespread. Surveillance data show that HIV has started to proliferate
within vulnerable groups who are at a high risk of contracting and spreading the disease. According to the
1998-99 national sero-surveillance data, prevalence rates are still low for brothel sex workers at 0.6
percent but rising for injecting drug users (IDUs) at 2.5 percent. The risk of contracting HIV is highest
among the estimated 12,000 IDUs due to greater efficiency of transmission and the widespread practice of
sharing needles (up to 96 percent). In neighboring countries, infection rates among injecting drug users
rose significantly in just a few months because of extensive needle reuse.
Numerous other risk factors suggest the possibility of a rapid spread of HIV in Bangladesh. These include
a large commercial sex industry with roughly 36,000 workers, each with an estimated average of 3-4
clients daily. The risk of sexual spread of HIV is exacerbated by high sexually transmitted disease (STD)
levels and low condom use among commercial sex workers (CSWs). Syphilis rates range between 46
percent for brothel based workers and nearly 57 percent for street based CSWs. Consistent condom use
among sex workers varies from four percent for brothel workers to 27.8 percent among the street sex
workers. Another potential source of HIV transmission is the largely unscreened blood supply which is
based on professional donors, of whom roughly 20 percent test positive for syphilis and hepatitis. In
addition, Bangladesh has porous borders with endemic countries and substantial risk behavior among
various population groups such as sailors, truckers, and sex workers.
Within the wider population, there is little awareness regarding the danger of HIV/AIDS and sexually
transmitted diseases, the routes of transmission and modes of prevention. In 1996/97, only 19 percent of
ever-married women between the ages of 15 and 49 and 33 percent of the men had ever heard of AIDS
while the use of condoms at that time was less than four percent. The lower status of Bangladeshi women,
added to their lower awareness of H1V, makes them particularly vulnerable to infection.
Bangladesh has a window of opportunity to invest in a few priority actions that can curtail the incidence of
HIV infection. The highest priority at this nascent stage of the epidemic is to promote safe behavior among
groups most likely to contract and spread the disease. Targeted interventions need to be complemented by
investments in awareness raising and preventive measures for the general population, including Information
Education Communication (IEC) campaigns, and efforts to strengthen the Government's capacity to
respond to HIV/AIDS, for example, in monitoring and evaluation, surveillance systems, operations
research, and infrastructure for blood safety and STD treatment.
Some progress has been made by the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and others to control the spread of
HIV since the mid-1990s:
* A high-level National AIDS Committee was formed, with a Technical Advisory Committee, and an
STD/AIDS Program Unit was set up in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), as part
of the Essential Services Package (ESP). Action was taken to develop a National AIDS Policy, as well
- 3 -



as to develop a multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS. Strategic action plans for the National Program
set forth fundamental principles and specific guidelines;
*   There has also been some commendable and innovative work undertaken by the non-government sector,
with support from Government and development partners. A network of about 200 NGOs working
with STDs/AIDS has been forned, but only about 50 NGOs are actively engaged in HIV/AIDS-related
activities, particularly in working with marginalized and hard-to-reach risk groups;
*   Multilateral and bilateral development partners, such as UNAIDS, UNDP, WHO, USAID, and DfID,
have financed a range of investments in HIV prevention, often implemented by NGOs, including
education and awareness campaigns, a condom social marketing program, capacity building and
programs aimed at groups at risk.
These early efforts provide the basis for responding to the spread of HIV. However, implementation of the
existing plans has been very slow; the plans need to be prioritized; the quality of interventions needs to be
strengthened; and selected components with high returns need to be expanded. This includes programs for
specific high-risk groups, where current coverage is low, at most reaching 10 percent. In sum, the current
response is not sufficient to attenuate an emerging epidemic.
Because of the nature of the virus, the presence of risk factors conducive to the spread of HIV, prevalence
of HIV and other STDs within high risk groups, and the lack of a strong response to HIV/AIDS, the
epidemic could spread exponentially to other vulnerable groups, such as spouses and newborn children.
Unless Bangladesh acts now to contain the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, it will have to pay a high
social and economic cost in the future.
The proposed operation's objective of helping Bangladesh scale-up the response to HIV/AIDS is therefore
key to the CAS objective of promoting human development and supporting interventions that directly assist
the poor.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
HIV/AIDS is one of several major challenges Bangladesh faces. Although the country has made
remarkable progress in some key indicators, health, nutrition and population concerns remain among the
country's most critical development issues. The main causes of disease and death continue to be
malnutrition and poverty-related infections, such as diarrheal diseases, acute respiratory infections (ARI),
and tuberculosis (TB). Bangladesh has one of the highest levels of child malnutrition and the fourth largest
concentration of TB cases in the world. Poor health indicators are further exacerbated by the low level of
education, poor sanitation, marked gender disparities, and inadequate health care services.
The high levels of morbidity and mortality, coupled with rapid population growth, and a nascent
HIV/AIDS epidemic, place high demands on the health care system. The delivery of services, however, is
impaired by low investment, inefficient use of existing resources, as well as weak institutional and
management capacity. This results in duplication of service delivery; poor quality of care and lack of
client-oriented service delivery; under-utilization of many public health facilities; lack of an effective
referral system; and inadequate cooperation between and regulation of the public, private-for-profit and
NGO sectors.
The Government of Bangladesh is addressing many of these issues, including HIV/AIDS, through the
Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP). This represents major sectoral reform to ensure that
services can be delivered in a cost-effective, sustainable and client-focused manner. It involves
reorganization, improved sector management, and decentralization. Priority in allocation of public sector
- 4 -



resources is given to the essential services package (ESP) that benefits vulnerable groups, especially
women and children. In addition, through the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP) and the
National Nutrition Program (NNP), GOB seeks to enhance community mobilization and community-based
nutrition services delivered with the assistance of NGOs, in association with national-level initiatives and
management capacity development.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
While the sector faces a number of challenges of competing importance, the proposed project would only
seek to address the nascent HIV/AIDS epidemic. Although some effort is being made by Government
under the Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP), and non-governmental organizations (NGOs),
the current response is insufficient to prevent an epidemic. Based on the findings of a June 1999 World
Bank mission, which included and/or consulted with staff and consultants from UN agencies, bilateral
agencies, and NGOs, it is recommended that, in order to reduce the vulnerability of Bangladesh to an
HIV/AIDS epidemic, the following actions be undertaken immediately:
*   Scale up the behavioral change activities and health promotion interventions for high risk behaviors and
vulnerable groups, seeking to achieve a high coverage of high risk populations;
*  Undertake an expansion of advocacy and awareness efforts for the population at large, seeking to attain
a satisfactory level of public awareness on HIV prevention and transmission;
*   Promote the social acceptability of condom use and ensure adequate supply and access;
*  Ensure, through the creation of an enabling environment and the implementation of appropriate policies
and measures, that those infected with HIV, or with high risk behaviors, do not become the victims of
discrimination;
*   Strengthen GOB capacity for program planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation;
*  Promote NGO capacity for program planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation;
* Strengthen mechanisms for collaboration and coordination within and between Government, the
non-government sector, development partner agencies, and other stakeholders.
In light of these recommendations, and given the short time-frame dictated by the need to seize the rapidly
closing window of opportunity to prevent an HIV/AIDS epidemic, the following strategic choices have been
made in consultation with the Borrower, NGOs and development partners:
-  A new operation embedded in HPSP but given special focus on HIV/AIDS;
*   Combining short-term assistance with a primary focus on interventions to cover high risk groups with a
longer term, phased approach to strengthening GOB capacity to respond to HIV and AIDS;
*  Combined private/public sector implementation is required, since NGOs play a central role in
implementing interventions among high risk groups;
*  A phased approach to project preparation, implementation and coverage of interventions.
Why a new operation? (vs. additional financing within HPSP)
While HIV/AIDS-related work is supported under HPSP, two considerations argue for a separate project.
First, since overall funding for HPSP was less than GOB originally requested from development partners,
there is an overall funding gap of US$200 million. Available resources are insufficient to cover the
required HIV/AIDS activities. Thus, there is need for the mobilization of additional resources to scale up
the response in the context of competing priorities. Second, the importance of the HIV issue and the
weakness of anti-HIV/AIDS measures call for drastic action to quickly scale up the response. Only a new
operation would result in the stepped-up, energetic Government effort which would provide additional
- 5 -



focus, impetus and implementation discipline to facilitate the intensification of priority HIV/AIDS
prevention activities.
The advantages of the proposed HIV/AIDS prevention operation would be several. In addition to
mobilizing needed additional resources, the project would provide the focus and energy required for the
planning, implementation and monitoring of HIV/AIDS prevention activities on a high-priority basis. At
the same time, HPSP would facilitate the use of already established mechanisms, such as the Donor
Consortium, and existing procurement and financial management arrangements. HPSP would also provide
the infrastructure and context within which broader-range but critical issues such as STD treatment,
training of health personnel, and medical waste management are addressed. Finally, after launching actions
needed to reduce the risk of a wide-spread HIV epidemic, and once these are well on track, it would be
possible to phase out project activities, while further embedding and integrating them into a sustainable
HIV/AIDS prevention program under HPSP.
Project scope and design: A focused, short-term approach (vs. a broad-based, long-term strategy)
Based on the review of ongoing HIV/AIDS prevention activities, there is agreement that accelerating the
country's response to HIV/AIDS will require a sharp focus on a small number of priorities that are likely to
determine whether Bangladesh can prevent a generalized epidemic. It was therefore agreed that the
emphasis would be placed on urgently expanding intervention programs for high risk groups while
increasing awareness and strengthening of HIV/AIDS response capacity in areas such as surveillance,
blood safety and program management.
NGO participation
NGOs have a comparative advantage to most effectively reach groups at high risk, such as commercial sex
workers (CSWs) and their clients, injecting drug users (IDUs), and men having sex with men (MSMs).
Combining the resources and strategic perspective of Government with the community reach and
experience of NGOs would enable the scaling up of programs among the high risk groups. It was therefore
agreed that during project implementation, GOB would contract NGOs to implement programs aimed at
such groups. Based on the experience and lessons leamed of BNIP and NNP, a mechanism for NGO
procurement was developed, which would allow for speed and scale in implementation. Critical to this
component would be technical capacity building of many of these NGOs, as well as reliable monitoring and
evaluation of implementation activities.
Phasing of proiect preparation. implementation and coverage of project activities:
It was agreed to target and expand programs among high risk groups as soon as possible -- even if this
implied leaving the detailing of other, lower priority project activities for the first year of implementation.
This has implications for the degree of project readiness (including the development of a fully detailed
procurement plan), the sequencing of implementation of project activities, and the sequential and
geographic coverage of program interventions. A phased approach would therefore be a key feature of the
project.
Project readiness and sequencing of implementation ofproject activities: Early on during project
preparation, the Borrower and Bank staff agreed that not all project activities would be fully prepared by
project effectiveness. Year 1 would be used to ensure that the critical institutional steps are in place, key
training activities are initiated, early NGO and communication activities begin, and detailed plans for the
subsequent years for substantial scaling-up are complete. Only as of Year 2 is project implementation
-6 -



expected to reach full scale.
Specifically, preparation and implementation activities would be sequenced as follows:
Year 1:
Activities under implementation:
*   Scaling up of programs among high risk groups by a selected number of experienced NGOs with a
proven track record;
* Training of NGOs, public health personnel, and others working with high risk groups, including design
and initiation of training of police and armed forces; and
*   Selection of smaller, less experienced NGOs for implementation of high risk group interventions.
Activities under preparation (to befinalized by the end of Year 1):
*   Design and piloting of selected awareness and communications activities;
*   Design and preparation of blood safety component; and
*   Design of monitoring and evaluation component with studies.
Years 2, 3 and 4:
*   Full implementation of project activities.
Project preparation activities which have been completed include: preliminary mapping of high risk groups
and their coverage by NGO interventions (financed by USAID); an assessment of NGO capacity; a
procurement plan for Year 1 NGO activities; and the preparation of training activities for NGOs and others
working with high risk groups.
Coverage of high risk groups: The proposed Project would focus particular attention on a small number
of risk groups, including CSWs, IDUs, clients of CSWs and MSMs. In total, it would aim at covering
about 36,000 sex workers, 12,000 IDUs, and 700,000 clients of sex workers (including rickshaw pullers,
long-distance truckers, students, small businessmen, police, sailors and dockworkers). Since these groups
tend to be concentrated in urban areas and in a relatively small number of geographical locations, the
proposed operation would be geographically targeted to those locations. As additional information on
target groups becomes available through enhanced surveillance activities and in-depth studies of risk
groups, interventions would be adjusted accordingly, to ultimately cover all high risk groups throughout the
country.
Blood safety: At present, GOB has no mandatory regulation requiring that transfused blood be tested for
infectious diseases such as HIV. In addition, professional blood donation from individuals that belong to
high risk behavior groups such as IDUs are the predominant source of blood for hospitals, private blood
banks and transfusion centers. As a result, the lack of blood safety in the country remains a key risk factor
for an HIV/AIDS epidemic. During project preparation, it was agreed that the importance of this issue
requires a separate blood safety component. However, given the urgent, focused nature of the proposed
project, and the existence of a UNDP-financed Blood Safety project, project implementation would not be
delayed. The design of the blood safety component would be developed by the end of Year I of project
implementation.
-7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would have four main components: (a) High Risk Group Interventions; (b) Communications
and Advocacy; (c) Blood Safety; and (d) Project Support and Institutional Strengthening. It was agreed
during project preparation that of all the above components, only activities required to implement Year I
interventions of component (a) would be fully prepared prior to project effectiveness.
a.    High Risk Group Interventions
The objective of this urgent component would be to limit the transmission of HIV infection among those
populations with the highest prevalence of risk behaviors and from those groups to the general population.
This will require the rapid scaling up of intervention programs aimed at such high risk groups, without
stigmatizing such groups.
The national HIV surveillance program and numerous studies provide a wealth of information on groups at
highest risk. The proposed project would focus particular attention on a small number of them, on the
basis of knowledge regarding their risk behaviors, and the presence of major risk factors, such as STD
infection. Evidence from various countries, including Bangladesh, suggests that priority groups include:
(a) injecting drug users (IDUs); (b) commercial sex workers (CSWs); (c) clients of CSWs and men
involved in the sex trade, other than the sex workers themselves (rickshaw pullers, truckers, students, small
businessmen, police, sailors and dockers), and (d) men having sex with men (MSMs). In total, the project
would aim to reach about 750,000 high-risk individuals. Details on the numbers and expected coverage of
the above groups are provided in Annex 2.
Efforts to reach some of these groups are already underway through HPSP and NGO programs. This
project would seek to complement and supplement these efforts. Programs for high risk groups would be
implemented primarily by NGOs, with some interventions, e.g., among the police and migrants, carried out
also by Govemment. The management and contracting arrangements for NGO intervention programs are
described in Annex 2. Strengthening the capacity of NGOs and others on interventions among groups at
high risk is critical to the effectiveness and sustainability of such programs.
The intervention package to be financed by IDA would include education, training and workshops, NGO
and consultant services, condom promotion, needle exchange, STD drugs, laboratory equipment and
supplies, incremental salaries and other expenses.
b.    Communications and Advocacy
The objective of this component would be to create support for the HIV/AIDS prevention program by: (a)
raising awareness, knowledge and understanding among the general population about HIHV/AIDS/STDs;
(b) encouraging the mobilization of resources and commitment for the implementation of the STD/AIDS
Program; and (c) reducing stigmatization of HIV/AIDS affected people. These objectives would be
achieved through activities to be financed under two sub-components: (i) Advocacy; and (ii) Public
Awareness.
i.    Advocacy: This sub-component would seek to create support for the STD/AIDS Program among
key groups who influence or are instrumental to the success of the Program, such as key national, religious,
- 8 -



and other opinion leaders. It would do so by organizing advocacy campaigns for supportive and key policy
makers, journalists and religious leaders, and later expanding advocacy efforts to other members of the
political and social leadership, including local authorities, parliamentarians, key industrial groups, and
senior government officials.
ii.    Public Awareness: This sub-component would seek to increase the knowledge and understanding
among the general population about HIV/AIDS transmission and prevention, and to create a positive,
non-discriminatory environment for people affected by HIV/AIDS. It would also seek to create
understanding and support among the public for GOB and NGO intervention programs.
The intervention package to be financed by IDA would include publicity, education, NGO and consultant
services, vehicles, operational research and other surveys and studies, training and fellowships, and
incremental salaries and operating expenses.
c.    Blood Safety
This component would seek to facilitate the expansion of safe-blood initiatives. It was agreed during
project preparation that details of this component's design and activities would be developed during Year I
of project implementation.
It is expected that, at least initially, this component would focus on channeling funding for the continuation
of UNDP's Safe Blood Transfusion Project for the provision of laboratory equipment and human resource
capacity building for 97 district and tertiary care facilities. UNDP funding for this project is expected to
run out in late 2001. Subject to adequate proposals by GOB, the proposed Project could also contribute to
the establishment of a National Reference Laboratory, and/or a feasibility study of privatization of blood
transfusion services.
IDA could finance blood safety equipment and supplies, HIV test kits, vehicles, consultant services,
operational research and studies, training and workshops, and incremental salaries and operating expenses.
d.    Project Support and Institutional Strengthening
i.    Program Management and Capacity Building: The objective of this sub-component would be to
strengthen the STD/AIDS Program technical and managerial capacity with the aim of facilitating the rapid
scaling up of HIV/AIDS prevention activities. This would be achieved by ensuring the adequate
disbursement of funds and procurement of goods and services, including the contracting of NGOs and other
partners; the provision of critical training to NGOs and other implementing partners; and effective
supervision of project activities. These activities would be carried out within the broader framework of
HPSP.
ii.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Operational Research: This sub-component seeks to monitor the
progress of the STD/AIDS Program at large (regardless of the source of funding), as well as of
interventions under the proposed Project; evaluate the impact of these interventions; and conduct research
that would enhance the impact of the STD/AIDS Program. This would involve epidemiological and
behavioral surveillance, and the establishment of a centralized database for monitoring and evaluation.
The intervention package to be financed by IDA would include training and workshops, consultant services,
surveys and studies, vehicles, medical and laboratory equipment, Geographic Information System (GIS),
incremental salaries and operating expenses.
-9-



~~on~pon~~nt     Sector ~~costs           % of    finiancing,  6iank-
X~~~~~~~~~~(SM                               Toa  ,;,U,5$M);  ffnanc7ng hk
1. High Risk Group Interventions   AIDS, STDs         22.68      43.1      18.13      45.3
2. Communications and Advocacy     AIDS, STDs         15.85       30.1     11.22      28.1
3. Blood Safety                    AIDS, STDs          5.01        9.5      3.71       9.3
4. Project Support and Institutional  AIDS, STDs       9.05       17.2      6.94       17.4
Strengthening
Total Project Costs                   52.59      100.0     40.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   52.59      100.0     40.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Specific policy and institutional issues which are directly linked to the objectives of the proposed Project
include: (a) strengthening the Line Directorate, Essential Services Package (ESP) and/or other critical
MOHFW capacity in key technical areas, such as procurement and financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and communication strategy development; (b) developing a mechanism to facilitate the
contracting and adequate coordination of NGOs, including technical capacity-building for NGOs and
others working on HIV/AIDS; and (c) strengthening GOB's sentinel and behavioral surveillance,
monitoring and evaluation, and operational research capacity. All of the above would be addressed under
the Project Management and Institutional Strengthening component.
Given the focused nature of proposed operation, the Project would not address any overarching policy
reform issues, such as the development of an NGO policy and institutional decentralization. These would
continue to be addressed, as originally intended, in the context of HPSP.
3. Benefits and target population:
It is expected that the Project would directly benefit: (a) groups at high risk of contracting and spreading
HIV, such as commercial sex workers (CSWs) and injecting drug users (IDUs); and (b) other vulnerable
groups at risk of contracting HIV, such as clients of CSWs--the police and military, university students,
and urban youth, and transportation workers--and men having sex with men (MSMs). The exact size of
these groups is unknown, but is estimated that the Project would reach about 750,000 individuals. About
40% of total project costs would be devoted tQ interventions for these groups.
In addition, the whole of Bangladesh would benefit directly from preventive interventions to strengthen the
HIV/AIDS response capacity, such as public informnation campaigns and blood safety programs. Women,
who are particularly vulnerable to HIV/AIDS and the marginalization associated with it, would benefit
significantly from the Project's impact. In addition, Bangladeshis already suffering from HIV/AIDS, or
those who will be infected soon, would benefit from some cost-effective care and support and drugs for
STDs. Finally, the whole population would benefit indirectly from the proposed Project's objective of
preventing the spread of the disease and thus mitigating the social and economic impact of HTV/AIDS.
- 10 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The proposed Project would be implemented as an integral part of HPSP, through Government entities,
NGOs and the private-for-profit sector. It would only require a refinement and/or extension of
implementation arrangements as set forth in HPSP documents. No separate project implementation unit
would be created.
Project Coordination and Oversight: The Directorate General of Health Services of the Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare (MOHFW) has overall responsibility for the STD/AIDS Program. Important policy
and technical considerations, including the involvement of relevant sectors, are addressed by responsible
Government agencies (primarily the National AIDS Committee, Technical and Coordination Committees at
various levels) and in collaboration with international donors (IDA, HPSP Donor Consortium, UNAIDS,
UNDP) and NGOs. These activities build on the National AIDS Policy and the draft Strategic Plan for the
National AIDS Program of Bangladesh.
The STD/AIDS Program Unit, in Line Directorate, ESP under the Deputy Director General of Health
Services, is the implementing body for the STD/AIDS Program and divides areas of responsibility among
Service Delivery, NGO Support, and Surveillance. In coordination with other responsible government
agencies within and outside of MOHFW, such as the Line Director Hospitals, the Behavior Change
Communication (BCC) Unit and the Management Accounting Unit (MAU), the Line Directorate, ESP
would be in charge of planning, day-to-day coordination of the project, for monitoring and evaluating
interventions, performance and organizational audit.
Collaborative arrangements would exist for specific project activities with other sectors in GOB. Very
important for the purposes of this Project would be the Ministry of Home Affairs (for advocacy and
awareness programs aimed at the police, the armed forces, and the prisoner population), the Ministry of
Labor and Employment (for programs among migrant populations), the Ministry of Education (for
interventions among students), and the Ministry of Information (for mass awareness campaigns).
For delivery of programs aimed at high risk groups (programs financed under component 1), some
communications and awareness raising campaigns for the general public, and selected monitoring and
evaluation activities, Line Directorate, ESP would contract NGOs and/or the private-for-profit sector. The
mechanism of NGO selection and procurement arrangements that would ensure the efficient and
transparent contracting of NGOs as well as the provision of technical assistance to small and less
experienced NGOs is critical. It is described in detail in Annex 2, under component 4.
Finally, for the sero- and behavioral surveillance, operational research, and independent monitoring,
MOHFW would seek the support of the International Center for Diarrhoeal Diseases Research, Bangladesh
(ICDDR,B) Institute of Epidemiology and Disease Control Research (IEDCR), and other independent
agencies.
Accounting. financial reporting and auditing arrangements (see Annex 6 for details):
Financial management arrangements under HPSP would apply directly to this Project. A separate
Special Account would be set up for this Project. The Management Accounting Unit (MAU) of the
MOHFW will be responsible for overall project financial management, and accounting, and will
maintain the books of accounts. The MAU will also prepare and disseminate financial statements and
financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. Project accounts
will be maintained using RIBEC code with additional customized software, which will be in place by
April 2001.
- 11 -



MOHFW has committed to strengthening MAU capacity with adequate staff, to guarantee management
and accountability of fund flow, Statement of Expenditure (SOE) reporting and disbursement activities.
Depending upon the computerization process and timeliness of report generation by the computerized
system by September 30, 2001, a decision will be taken on switching over to PMR-based disbursement.
In the interim period, the MAU will submit manual reports on Sources and Usage of Funds for each
quarter and year to date and Procurement Management Reports (PMRs). Disbursements will be made
following traditional disbursement procedures until the conversion to PMR-based disbursement.
For statutory purposes, the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), through the Directorate of
Audit-Foreign Aided Projects, carries out audits of foreign-aided projects. The project financial
statements and statement of expenditures (SOEs) will be audited annually in accordance with the
International Organization of Supreme Audit Institution standards, and the audit report will be
submitted to IDA no later six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Co-financing arrangements:
The estimated total cost of the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project is US$52.59 million equivalent, including
contingencies. Investment costs (US$52.50 million) covering goods, technical assistance and training,
constitute 99.8 percent of the total project costs. Recurrent costs (US$0.09 million), including
operation and maintenance and other operating costs, constitute 0.2 percent of total project costs. The
project will be co-financed by IDA (US$40 million equivalent) and the United Kingdom, through DflD
(US$ 10 million equivalent), using a "fund pooling" mechanism. The expected cost and sources of
financing of the project are shown in Annex 3.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The HIV/AIDS Prevention Project would include monitoring
and evaluation as a critical project subcomponent. It would seek to monitor the progress of the
HIV/AIDS program at large, regardless of source of funding. This would primarily be evaluated on
the basis of sero- and behavioral surveys. The Project would conduct: (a) internal project monitoring
and process evaluation, to assess the extent to which the project is implemented as planned, how the
Project operates, and what problems of service-delivery are. To this effect, the Project would also
strengthen the monitoring and evaluation capacity of Line Directorate, ESP through provision of
technical assistance; (b) independent cost-effectiveness evaluation, to assess costs of different
interventions against their effect; and (c) an independent impact evaluation based on the data from the
sero- and behavioral surveillance. Formal evaluations would be carried out during the annual HPSP
review, the Project's mid-term review, and at the end of the Project. The implementation of such
evaluations would be contracted out by GOB to third-party organization(s) through a competitive
bidding process.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1. Providing no additional financing, and relying exclusively on HPSP for HIV/AIDS prevention activities.
*   The importance of the HIV/AIDS issue and the weakness of the HIV/AIDS response call for drastic
action to quickly scale up the response. Specifically, there is a need for energetic action as well as for
additional resources to meet the top-priority needs in the context of competing priorities and scarcity of
resources. If these actions are not taken immediately, the epidemic is likely to spread quickly.
- 12 -



2. Injecting additional financing, in the form of a "supplemental credit," to HPSP for HIV/AIDS
prevention activities.
* The importance of the HIV/AIDS issue and the weakness of the current response require additional
focus, impetus and implementation discipline, to facilitate the intensification of priority activities. A
separate project within the overall franework for HPSP allows for the establishment of needed
framework and mechanisms within which to channel and monitor the use of resources for the planning,
implementation and monitoring of HIV/AIDS prevention activities.
3. In addition to the proposed components, addressing all aspects of HIV/AIDS prevention now, including
the longer term "expanded response" interventions.
* The early stage of the epidemic in Bangladesh calls for immediate priority setting. This Project intends
to provide a focused approach to implementation of priority interventions, while gradually laying the
foundations for a broader response.
4. Focusing narrowly and exclusively on interventions targeted at groups at high risk, without building in
the broader strengthening of HIV/AIDS response capacity in a number of priority areas.
*   Global experience shows that programs for high-risk groups would slow the spread of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, but not avert it. In order to prevent a generalized epidemic in resource-poor countries,
interventions must slowly lay the foundations for broader awareness campaigns airned at groups at risk
of contracting and spreading the infection, such as adolescents.
3 In addition to having direct benefits on health, preventing HIV infection within other vulnerable groups
and organizing public information programs maintains visibility and political support for HIV/AIDS
control, and helps avoid stigmatization of groups at high risk.
5. Relying exclusively on Government to directly provide services for programs among high-risk groups.
*   GOB does not have a comparative advantage to provide these services and NGOs have demonstrated
capacity to carry out this work.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projcts only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health and Population Sector     S             S
Program Project
Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition  S             S
Project (BINP)
National Nutrition Program       S             S
Project (NNP)
- 13 -



Other development agencies
DffD                              CARE/Bangladesh - SHAKTI
USAID                             IMPACT
UNDP                              National Policy on HIV/AIDS
Safe Blood Transfusion Project
AIDS Prevention Project
UNFPA                             Reproductive Health Initiative
Rotary                            Business Coalition for AIDS
SEA-AIDS                          Sahojogi AIDS
UNAIDS                            Ongoing TA
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of this Project utilizes up-to-date scientific information on HIV/AIDS, lessons of experience
from HIV/AIDS control programs implemented worldwide, and key lessons learned by other development
partners working in Bangladesh to prevent the spread of HIV.
Key lessons from global experience are: (a) early aggressive prevention is the most effective strategy
because of the high speed of HIV transmission; (b) intervention among poor and marginalized groups at
high risk of becoming infected is the most effective way to reduce transmission at the early stages of an
epidemic; (c) targeted interventions need to be coupled with broader-based advocacy and awareness to
prevent discrimination that would prevent behavior change; (d) identifying and reaching risk behavior
groups remains difficult; and (e) advocacy and coordination among various sectors, including the private
sector, need to be developed.
Key lessons from experience in the region show that effective program management requires high-quality,
up-to-date epidemiological and management information which can be acquired by strengthening
surveillance and financial management systems.
Lessons from Bangladesh are: (a) providing infornation on safe behavior alone is not sufficient to bring
about behavioral change. Interventions for promoting safe behavior should not only aim at providing
informnation, but also at removing constraints that prevent people from choosing safe behavior and
practices; (b) AIDS is a development issue: social factors such as violence, migration, marginalization,
human trafficking and discrimination affect HIV/AIDS prevention; (c) existing NGO efforts in
reproductive health work have paved the way for STD and HIV/AIDS work by establishing communication
channels and developing strong relationships with local people; and (d) as a sector-wide program, the
IDA-financed HPSP, will be used to ensure that HIV/AIDS prevention is an integral part of the health
sector. Finally, experience from the IDA-financed Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BNIP) and the
National Nutrition Project (NNP) shows that, by developing adequate contracting and sub-contracting
mechanisms, NGOs can be effective partners in implementation of large-scale programs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Throughout preparation, the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project has enjoyed increasing support from the current
Government.
Since the mid-i 990s, when HIV/AIDS first emerged as an issue in Bangladesh, GOB had taken a number
of steps that reflect its ownership of HIV/AIDS prevention activities, beginning with the formulation of a
- 14 -



National Policy on HIV/AIDS and a strategic action plan, the establishment of a National AIDS Committee
with a Technical Advisory Committee, the formation of the STD/AIDS Program Unit and the development
of operational plans within the framework of HPSP. While these documents provided a good basis for the
response to HIV, actual commitment to the implementation of these plans and policies was lacking.
In recent months, however, the Director, Primary Health Care and Line Director ESP, and staff working in
the STD/AIDS Program Unit, have engaged in the intensive review and prioritization of the HIV/AIDS
policy and strategic framework, including existing operational plans, in close collaboration with NGOs and
development partners. This collaboration has most frequently taken the form of workshops and working
groups.
At a higher level, the understanding of the need for the rapid scaling-up and expansion of the response to
HIV/AIDS prevention has been reflected in the request for support to the on-going HIV/AIDS Program
from the Prime Minister, Ministry, MOHFW, the Secretary, Economic Relations Division (ERD), the
Secretary, MOHFW and, importantly for the multi-sectoral approach to the Project, the Secretary of Home
Affairs.
The key issues, however, remain the need to strengthen the management and implementation capacity of the
STD/AIDS Program Unit and to develop an effective mechanism for channeling funds to NGOs engaged in
HIV/AIDS prevention activities. The proposed Project plans to address both issues.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  IDA has undertaken a key role in developing and coordinating HPSP, and therefore is well-situated to
assist in developing the strategic links and critical consistency with other health investments in
Bangladesh, including those financed by IDA.
*  IDA is the largest investor in HIV/AIDS prevention and control projects globally, with substantial
cross-country experience that would help Bangladesh apply the latest technical know-how for
HIV/AIDS prevention and control.
*  IDA, through the Development Economics Department (DEC), has undertaken extensive work to
develop a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) mechanism for health projects. This model has been
incorporated into the design of the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. This will enable the client, IDA, and
other stakeholders to closely monitor and learn from the outcomes. During project implementation,
lessons learned will be fed back into project design.
*  IDA investments in other sectors in Bangladesh, such as education, would contribute to strengthening
the necessary cross-sectoral linkages of the HIV/AIDS response.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR   % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Justification of Government Involvement and Cost Effectiveness: The design and components of the
Project are fully consistent with the economic rationale for public action. Strengthening epidemiological
surveillance, operations research, monitoring and evaluation and information education communication
(IEC) campaigns constitute pure public goods. Minimizing negative externalities of risky behavior
provides strong justification for public spending on targeted interventions to groups most likely to spread
the infection. Most importantly, an early govemment response will avoid enormous increases in public
- 15 -



spending on health care as the epidemic develops. These preventive measures and the use of NGOs to
deliver services to high risk groups are widely recognized as essential to a potentially very cost-effective
strategy at a nascent stage of the epidemic, as in Bangladesh.
It is not possible at this stage to derive acceptable quantitative estimates of cost effectiveness given limited
data on various behavioral and epidemiological parameters and an almost total lack of information on
impact of interventions. However, the development of systematic monitoring and evaluation activities
would be critical objective of the Project. Thus, in lieu of ex ante cost effectiveness analysis, the Project,
through financing epidemiological information of trends in HIV prevalence, behavioral surveys, and
monitoring and evaluation of costs and effects of specific interventions, would enable meaningful economic
analysis to be conducted in the future.
Poverty Analysis: The Project would benefit high risk groups as well as the general population by
reducing their risk of contracting HIV. High risk groups, particularly sex workers, are among the most
economically and socially marginalized sections of the population. Available evidence suggests that
poverty is the predominant factor pushing largely illiterate women, many of whom are divorced and
separated, into commercial sex work.
The Project, by containing the epidemic, would have a beneficial impact on the wider population, both poor
and non-poor. It would particularly benefit the poor, who are less likely to be informed about preventive
measures and less able to cope with the increasing incidence of adult morbidity and mortality associated
with the disease. The Demographic and Health Survey 1996/97 indicates considerable variation in
awareness of the disease and condom use by educational level which is strongly correlated to
socio-economic status. Only 6 percent of the women and 11 percent of the men with no education had ever
heard of the disease, while condom use among the uneducated group was less than 2 percent as compared
to nearly 11 percent of those with secondary education.
The non-poor would also benefit from the Project. Research findings indicate that health-related shocks not
only lead to extreme impoverishment of moderately poor households but are also a significant determinant
of the decline of non-poor households into extreme poverty. Catastrophic health events were the main
cause of the sharp deterioration in income of more than one-fifth of the households that fell from non-poor
status to extreme poverty over the period.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal Impact and Sustainability: It is difficult, at this stage, to deternine the exact level of fiscal impact
of the Project. However, it is estimated that it would be minimal. Recurrent costs during project
implementation and at project termination are expected to be low.
The likelihood of sustainability is high because the fiscal impact is expected to be minimal and the Project
is expected to continue to have a high level of priority within the overall public expenditure program.
Sustainability of the STD/AIDS program activities would also be built into the Project in important ways
by: (a) developing the STD/AIDS Program's capacity; (b) creating greater commitmer.t and support for the
program among key decision makers and the public at large; and (c) enhancing capabilities of and
establishing partnerships between the Government, NGOs and the private sector to deal with the problem.
- 16-



3. Technical:
Agreement was reached in January 2000 regarding the key issues and principles that would guide further
project preparation (see below). Fortunately, the HIV epidemic in Bangladesh is still at an early stage, with
an estimated 21,000 persons infected, and less than 200 AIDS cases identified to date. The sero
surveillance of high risk groups in 1998-1999 and 1999-2000 indicated that no group, including injecting
drug users (IDUs) and commercial sex workers (CSWs) had an IRV prevalence over 3%. However, there
is evidence of increasing HIV prevalence among these groups, which is likely to escalate to a very rapid
spread if not quickly contained. And the 1999-2000 behavioral surveillance data show a high prevalence of
risky behavior among the groups surveyed, which included STD clients, truckers, and rickshaw pullers, in
addition to sex workers and injecting drug users. Bangladesh is one of very few countries which have
embarked on an energetic HIV/AIDS prevention program at an early stage of the epidemic, when it is
easiest to contain. At this incipient stage, lNAIDS and other experts recommend a strong focus on
preventing transmission among and from high risk groups.
The agreed principles for project design are:
*  Program strategy would give highest priority to the prevention of sexual transmission and be guided by
epidemiological (blood testing for HIV and syphilis) and behavioral surveillance;
*   The Project would give top priority to acting quickly to target preventive programs on the highest risk
groups, aiming for rapid scaling-up of coverage of those individuals most likely to contract and spread
HIV. This is the most effective way of preventing spread to lower-risk population groups, for example,
the partners of IDUs and CSWs. Such a strategy was successful in Thailand, and has been piloted
with success on a small scale by NGOs in Bangladesh for the past five years;
-  The project would employ cost-effective prevention strategies which have been shown to be effective in
HIV/AIDS programs in many countries. Experience has demonstrated that behavior change among
high risk groups can slow dramatically the transmission of HIV: for example, reducing the number of
sexual and drug-injecting partners; using condoms during sexual intercourse; and sterilizing
drug-injecting equipment. The package of cost-effective interventions would include behavioral change
communications, condom use promotion, sexually transmitted disease treatment, empowerment, and
creation of an enabling environment, focusing on those individuals most likely to contract and spread
HIV;
v  NGOs would be financed, through the Govemment of Bangladesh, to provide most of the interventions
for high risk groups, because of their comparative advantage and experience in this area. The public
sector would focus on refining program policy and strategy, public information programs, blood safety,
surveillance, monitoring and evaluation, and operational research.
The technical design of the Project is well-suited to the country's needs and the stage of the HIV epidemic.
It is based on intemational best practice, including the recommendations of UNAIDS, as well as
Bangladesh's experience to date in dealing with HIV/AIDS. It conforms well with the Bank's policy
research report, Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic (1997). If quickly and
effectively implemented, the Project could assist Bangladesh to be one of the very few countries which have
successfully prevented a substantial AIDS epidemic by acting early to prevent the spread of the virus from
high risk groups to the general population. The Project would provide support for the rapid development of
an effective monitoring and evaluation system to complement the sentinel surveillance, since the current
monitoring and evaluation system is not effective.
- 17 -



International experience, for example in Thailand, has demonstrated that prevention of HIV transmission
among and from high risk groups is the quickest, most feasible, and most cost-effective way of protecting
those at lower risk of infection, for example, spouses living in rural areas. Since providing interventions to
a large segment of the population is not possible in the short run, and would be very costly, reaching
individuals with the highest number of sexual partners first is the best protection for those with a single
partner. Moreover, it is often easier to reach high risk groups, for example brothel-based sex workers, than
other groups, and they are often motivated to change their behavior to lower their risk of infection.
Interventions to prevent HIV infection among lower risk groups would include awareness raising and
behavioral change communications, improved access to STD treatment and condoms, and making the blood
supply safer.
If Bangladesh is able to scale up the successful NGO-led programs for high risk groups, the chances of
preventing a major AIDS epidemic are good. This project could make a major contribution to that effort.
4. Institutional:
The proposed Project would be implemented as an integral part of HPSP, through Government entities,
NGOs and the private-for-profit sector. No separate implementation unit would be created. Project cycle
management procedures such as annual operational planning, financial management and reporting, and
perfonnance reviews would be synchronized with HPSP processes and procedures.
Under the Project Management and Institutional Strengthening component, the project would only seek to
address policy and institutional issues which are directly linked to the objectives of the proposed Project.
These include: (a) strengthening the STD/AIDS Program Unit and/or other critical MOHFW capacity in
key technical areas, such as procurement and financial management, monitoring and evaluation, and
communication strategy development; (b) developing a mechanisms to facilitate the contracting and
adequate coordination of NGOs, including technical capacity-building for NGOs and others working on
HlV/AIDS; and (c) strengthening GOB's sentinel and behavioral surveillance, monitoring and evaluation,
and operational research capacity.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The HIV/AIDS Prevention Project would be administered by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
(MOHFW). Important policy and technical considerations, including the involvement of relevant sectors,
are addressed by responsible Government agencies (primarily the National AIDS Committee, Technical
and Coordination Committees at various levels) and in collaboration with intemational donors (IDA, HPSP
Donor Consortium, UNAIDS, UNDP) and NGOs. These activities build on the National AIDS Policy and
the draft Strategic Plan for the National AIDS Program of Bangladesh.
At the directorate level, the Additional Director in the Directorate General of Health Services of MOHFW,
has overall responsibility for the STD/AJDS Program. He will delegate, in line with roles and
responsibilities as defined under HPSP, program management tasks to the following Line Directors:
(a) The Line Director Essential Services Package, Director General Health Services (LDESP-DGHS) is
responsible for most deliverables that will be financed under the proposed Credit, including NGO
procurement. The LDESP is the main implementing body for the STD/AIDS Program and would be in
charge of the day-to-day management of the project.
- 18-



(b) The Line Director Hospitals (LD Hospitals DGHS) is responsible for planning and implementation of
the Blood Safety component. He/she will provide within nine months of project implementation a detailed
implementation plan for the Blood Safety component of the Project.
(c) The Additional Secretary, MOHFW, is responsible for coordination of HIV prevention activities within
MOHFW and with other sectors in GOB. This is particularly relevant for achieving coverage of the
groups at high risk without stigmatizing these groups. Important for the purposes of this Project would be
the Ministry of Home Affairs (for advocacy and awareness programs aimed at the police, the armed forces,
and the prisoner population), the Ministry of Labor and Employment (for interventions among migrant
populations), the Ministry of Education (for interventions among students), and the Ministry of Information
(for mass awareness campaigns).
NGOs: For the implementation of programs aimed at high-risk groups including, some communications
and awareness campaign activities, and selected monitoring and evaluation activities, the STD/AIDS
Program Unit would contract NGOs, both large and small, with experience working on HIV/AIDS.
Private-for-profit sector: This sector has a proven track record for specific activities in the areas of social
marketing, and communications and awareness. In addition, collaboration from specific private sector
agencies, such as the Chamber of Commerce, Rotary, etc. would be sought for the implementation of
interventions among selected groups, such as industrial workers.
Research Institutions: Finally, for sero- and behavioral surveillance, operations research, and independent
monitoring the STD/AIDS Unit would seek the support of the International Center for Diarrhoeal Diseases
Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B) and the Institution of Epidemiology, Disease Control Research
(IEDCR).
4.2 Project management:
As an integral part of HPSP, the Proposed project would comply with relevant HPSP policy and program
development, planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
The STD/AIDS Program Unit, in coordination with other responsible Govemment agencies within and
outside of MOHFW, such as the Line Directorate Hospital Services, the Behavior Change Communication
(BCC) Unit, the Procurement Unit, and the STD/AIDS Program Unit would be in charge of planning,
day-to-day coordination of the Project, and monitoring and evaluating interventions.
For the execution of NGO contracts, the STD/AIDS Program Unit will be responsible for the budgeting,
selection and supervision of NGO interventions. A number of large, well-established NGOs would, as
"resource" NGOs, assist the Program Unit in the contracting and training of smaller NGOs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement would follow IDA guidelines as outlined in the HPSP Development Credit Agreement.
Procurement capacity in MOHFW remains weak. However, this, as well as systems and procedural
bottlenecks, are being addressed through technical assistance under HPSP.
Particularly important for this Project would be the procurement of NGOs. NGOs would be selected
and contracted as implementing partners for selected project activities. A mechanism for contracting
and monitoring of NGOs was developed which would allow for speed and scale in implementation,
while facilitating adequate monitoring/oversight and NGO capacity strengthening. Procurement of
these contracts will take place in two phases. For the first phase, large, well-established NGOs will be
- 19 -



contracted. During this first phase, large NGOs will focus scaling up ongoing activities among high
risk groups, while also preparing training programs for smaller, less experienced NGOs. During the
second phase, these smaller NGOs would be trained and selected on a competitive basis. This model
includes the contracting of one or more large, experienced "resource" NGOs, to provide technical
support and training to smaller, less experienced NGOs, as well as to assist the STD/AIDS Unit in the
contracting and monitoring of such NGO activities. It is expected that this mechanism will result in a
sufficient number of NGOs qualifying to cover high risk groups nationwide.
To mitigate the risk associated with this process, procurement training initiated under HPSP will
continue.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management would also follow IDA guidelines, as outlined in the HPSP development credit
agreement. MOHFW financial management capacity is weak. However, MOHFW has committed to
strengthening the Management Accounting Unit (MAU), to guarantee the adequate management and
accountability of fund flow, Statement of Expenditure (SOE) reporting and disbursement activities. As
agreed under HPSP, the appointment of four additional staff in the MAU is expected to contribute to the
strengthening of financial management activities. It has also been agreed that the Project would finance
necessary technical assistance to the MAU to overcome existing bottlenecks and help to prepare timely
project financial statements.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The management of used needles and syringes provided to injecting drug users has been raised as an issue.
Since the proposed project would fall under the umbrella of the HPSP, used needles and syringes would be
handled through the medical waste management system under HPSP. Technical assistance on the medical
waste management under HPSP would be carried out in FY200 1, and concrete measures for the used
needles and syringes under the proposed Project would be worked out and agreed prior to implementing the
needle and syringe exchange program. For immediate measures, the project will minimize risk by
requiring that contracted NGOs take the following steps:
Sezregation at distribution source:
*   Needles will be stored in rigid closed boxes or containers to minimize risk of inadvertent contact.
Needles disposed in the box would be counted (tallysheet). Used needles would be properly
destroyed.
*   Syringes will be stored in containers separate from sharps (needles). Disposed syringes would be
counted (tallysheet). Used syringes will be destroyed.
*   A monthly balance sheet will be prepared by the needle exchange program provider and will
indicate that the numbers of dispensed match the numbers of disposed syringes and needles.
Intemal transport and storage:
*   Transport and storage of full waste disposal container will, for this trip, take place in dedicated
vehicles only.
*   Storage or disposal methods and/or sites will have to be certified by the Line Directorate Hospital
Services.
*   A cumulative balance-sheet shall be kept by participating NGOs to account for all syringes and
needles that are procured under the proposed Project.
- 20 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social development outcome of this Project would be to protect the general population and
vulnerable groups in society, such as sex workers and intravenous drug users, including tribal populations,
from an HIV/AIDS epidemic. Critical social issues to achieve this objectives are: (a) how to reach the
disadvantaged people who are at high-risk of contracting HIV/AIDS and how to change their high-risk
behavior; (b) how to increase awareness among the general population, paying special attention to women
and social groups who have less education and exposure to mass media; and (c) how to avoid
stigmatization of these disadvantaged populations.
Project preparation has addressed these issues as follows:
(a) On how to reach the disadvantaged people who are at high-risk of contracting HIVIAIDS and how to
change their high-risk behavior: The proposed project design is built on the country's experience of the
last several years as well as on lessons leamt regionally and globally. In Bangladesh, major stakeholders,
Government, donors, and most importantly, NGOs, as well as beneficiaries, have accumulated information
identifying populations at high risk, where they are, how high-risk behavior pattems change, and what is
needed to change risky behavior. The project team has acquired the core of this knowledge through a series
of consultations with NGOs, donors, key individuals and beneficiaries as well as by reviewing existing
studies and surveys. In addition, a social assessment has been conducted in order to systematically take
stock of the existing knowledge as well as to identify gaps and needs for further research. A separate social
assessment on the Chittagong Hill Tract Tribes was also conducted in order to assess their risk of acquiring
HIV among the population of whom almost no information was available. Identified informational gaps
on, for example, high-risk behaviors among the tribal populations, the status and best intervention
strategies for young sex workers (or children exploited in the sex industries), and professional blood
donors, would have to be filled in the first two years of project implementation by conducting operational
research. The monitoring of the effects of the overall HPSP on those who are at high-risk would be
surveyed (sero and behavioral surveillance) as part of the regular monitoring mechanism, and fed back into
the proposal project design.
Regional and global experience indicates that effective interventions to promote safer behavior should focus
not only on providing information but also on removing constraints which prevent people from choosing
- 21 -



safer behavior. The cases of commercial sex workers (CSWs) are best documented and instructive in what
it would take to bring about behavioral change. CSWs are placed at the margin of the society, and the
stigma attached to them often limits their access to basic needs such as health care and treatment for
sexually transmitted diseases. Even when they are aware that using condoms can prevent HIV/AIDS, they
are often unable to persuade clients to use them. Experience from successful projects, such as CARE's
SHAKTI in Bangladesh and Sonagachi in Calcutta, India, suggests that, in order for CSWs to adopt safer
behavior, they have to be provided with support to meet their basic needs and to be empowered. Also,
CSWs express strong concern about their children's welfare. The proposed Project will therefore allow
contracted NGOs to include some activities which address socio-economic constraints of the targeted
populations.
(b) On how to increase awareness among the general population, paying special attention to women and
social groups who have less education and exposure to mass media: The Project would monitor effects of
public awareness activities on men and women separately, and ensure that women's awareness will increase
without lagging behind men's. A special strategy will be developed to reach tribal populations who use
different languages and less access to mass-media.
(c) On how to avoid stigmatization of these disadvantaged populations: The Project would seek to reduce
stigmatization of high risk groups through communications campaigns for the public, as well as by training
of uniformed officers and others who are in a position to directly influence the behavior of risk groups.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project concept has been developed in close consultation with different groups of beneficiaries,
including commercial sex workers, and injecting drug users at national and local levels. Key donors,
including UNAIDS, UNDP, the HPSP Donor Consortium, NGOs which are active in HIV/AIDS
prevention, and researchers have also participated and provided feedback in the preparation of the design of
the Project. In addition to a meeting with organizations individually, group meetings for donors and also
for NGOs were and would continue to be organized to discuss project preparation and implementation.
NGOs would be key implementing partners of the proposed Project. The views and experience of the
people in high-risk groups, as well as of people living with HIV/AIDS, would continue to be surveyed
throughout project implementation. The results of social assessments have been shared with stakeholders,
including government officials, donors and NGOs, at a workshop and future actions have been discussed.
A consultation meeting would be held every six months. Also, importantly, the United Kingdom will
cofinance the Project by funding US$ 10 million through DFID.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other members of civil society have been involved in preparation of this Project in two major
ways. First, the project preparation team consulted with NGOs, key informants and a group of lawyers
through a series of meetings, interview and the social assessment. Second, the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare (MOHFW) has agreed to delegate to NGOs the implementation of major interventions
among groups at high risk. The Government team, the donor working group and the Bank team have
agreed on key criteria for selecting the large NGOs, and developing the required contractual and
management mechanisms between MOHFW and the NGOs, as well as the implementation plan for the first
year of this NGO component. Selection criteria for small NGOs will be agreed upon within the first year
of project implementation and included as part of the final Strategic Implementation Plan.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
- 22 -



The project's primary focus gears towards achieving social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
This Project would have a strong focus on monitoring and evaluation. Social development outcomes, such
as behavioral change of high-risk groups, and awareness levels of women, are key indicators. For example,
the Project would monitor condom use by CSWs and clients, needle sharing among IDUs, and prevalence
of STDs. Qualitative surveys would also monitor the stigma and harassment attached to sex workers and
IDUs, and their access to health services.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project? ________________
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes @ No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Indigenous Peoples: Full project preparation would pay adequate attention to, and ensure compliance with
OD 4.20 in areas with tribal populations.
The Chittagong Hill Tract has been a restricted area until recently, and very little research has been
conducted on tribal populations, let alone the behavior that would put them at high risk of contracting
HIV/AIDS. A separate social assessment has identified "possible risk factors" associated with the tribal
populations in the Hill Tract. Interviews with key informants and focus group conducted under the social
assessment identified a few high-risk factors, including: a high incidence of STDs among the population,
frequent cross-border contact with other tribal populations, commercial sex activities for tourists and
migrant workers from the plain areas, and very limited knowledge of HIV/AIDS. There is very limited
access to TV, and the literacy rate is low. IEC activities targeted at the tribal populations will have to be
developed in their language, and rely on limited media, such as radio, person-to-person contacts and
publicity through community leaders. Based on these initial findings, a further in-depth research will be
conducted. Also, a sample from the Hill Tract will be included in sero and behavioral surveillance in order
to get accurate data on high-risk behavior and prevalence of STDs.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Critical to the overall sustainability of the Project would be: (a) technical sustainability, to meet project
goals in the most cost-effective manner; (b) sustainability of political commitment to project goals; (c)
managerial and institutional sustainability, to secure the effective use of project resources; and (d) financial
sustainability, or continuous availability of the financial resources necessary to carry out project activities.
- 23 -



(a) Technical sustainability would be sought through (i) focusing on low-cost, preventive interventions,
thereby reducing the future number of patients seeking expensive AIDS treatment and care from the public
health sector; and (ii) strengthening capacity for service delivery, through training and participation by
NGOs and beneficiaries.
(b) Sustainability ofpolitical commitment for the STD/AIDS Program would be sought through
awareness and advocacy efforts targeted at people in positions of influence or instrumental to the project,
including national, religious, and opinion leaders, key policy makers, parliamentarians and local authorities.
Training would also be provided for groups such as the police, to reduce or avoid the stigmatization of high
risk groups.
(c) The managerial and institutional sustainability would be strengthened by enhancing the management
capacity of Line Directorate, ESP and MOHFW (including in procurement; financial management;
monitoring and evaluation; and communications skills). In addition, the linkage of the proposed operation
to the Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP) provides a framework for the sustainability of the
STD/AIDS Program. Once activities to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS as promoted through the
proposed operation are well on track, it would be possible to secure the phasing-out of the project, while
firther embedding and integrating its activities in a sustainable HIV/AIDS prevention program under
HPSP.
(d) As discussed in section E 2 and Annex 5, the likelihood offinancial sustainability is high because the
fiscal impact is expected to be minimal and the Project is expected to continue to have a high level of
priority within the overall public expenditure program. The GOB is not only committed to increasing the
level of sectoral resources under HPSP but also to enhancing efficiency in resource use through the
reorganization of the health system.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The scaling-up of programs among high      M         -- The Project, by starting to strengthen the
risk groups will not be sufficient nor               HIV/AIDS response capacity in selected priority
quick enough to slow down the spread of              areas, would begin laying the foundations for a
HIV. HIV/AIDS prevalence rates rise                  broader-based strategy, including broad
rapidly.                                             awareness and communication campaigns,
which would be critical to containing HIV/AIDS
at a later stage of the epidemic.
Programs among high risk groups are not    M         -- The Project relies on NGOs to implement
effective in modifying behavior.                     behavior change communication activities,
including peer education and empowerment
processes, which have proven effective in
similar socio-economic contexts. Interventions
will be phased and carefully monitored, allowing
for modifications and redesign as needed.
- 24 -



From Components to Outputs
Decline in Government commitment.          S         GOB commitment has been demonstrated
Controlling the spread of the epidemic by            through several actions. The project will
focusing on groups such as CSWs and                  support advocacy and coalition building to
IDUs, may expose GOB to criticism by                 sensitize key groups including policy makers,
religious groups and others of supporting            the media, and religious leaders. This will be
immoral behavior. Political pressures may            complemented by carefully designed mass
be specially severe in the pre-election              communication campaigns to build support for
period.                                              the STD/AIDS Program among the wider
population as well as to reduce stigma and
discrimination against groups at risk and
affected by HIV.
GOB undertakes repressive measures         M         GOB compliance with the UN International
against marginalized groups and fails to             Guidelines on HIV/AIDS and Human Rights. In
maintain international standards of ethics           addition, the project will finance awareness
and human rights. This results in making             creating activities for the police and armed
groups at high risk harder to reach, thus            forces.
reducing the effectiveness of targeted
interventions and increasing the likelihood
of a quick spread of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic.
Inadequate leadership, institutional and    H        MOHFW to staff regular positions in the
management capacity in the STD/AIDS                  STD/AIDS Unit with competent officials, and
Unit, coupled with frequent change of                guarantee their continuity for the duration of the
management and key staff                             project. TA for the STD/AIDS Unit in four key
areas is in place already.
Delays in operationalizing GOB/NGO         H         To mitigate this risk, GOB would complete
collaboration.                                       detailed Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP)
completed by October 31, 2001, including
clearly defined eligibility criteria for NGO
proposals; a transparent and efficient
mechanism for contracting out of services to
NGOs for Years 2, 3 and 4 agreed on and
established. Initially, GOB may use UNAID's
assistance in developing a list of appropriate
NGOs.
- 25 -



Insufficient NGO capacity, resulting in     S         The High Risk Intervention component will be
reduced capacity to carry out effective               implemented in a phased manner. Training
interventions                                         activities for NGOs and others implementing
interventions among high risk groups is a critical
feature of the project. Year 1 interventions will
be implemented by NGOs with proven
experience and capacity, contracted out on a
single-source basis.. During Year 1, activities
will focus on: (i) implementing activities in
selected high-risk areas; (ii) carefully
monitoring effectiveness of on-going BCC
interventions to ensure learning-by-doing; and
(iii) building capacity of other smaller and less
experienced NGOs;
The project undermines the sector-wide      M         The project will be integrated under the HPSP
approach under the HPSP framework.                    framework and organizational structure. While
intensifying the focus on priority interventions
among high risk groups and key capacity
building, the project will be complemented by
efforts to upgrade the quality of
STD/reproductive health services under HPSP.
On completion, project interventions will be
merged into the STD/AIDS Program under
HPSP. Capacity of STD/AIDS Unit and partner
NGOs will be developed.
Weak procurement capacity                   S         Several measures have been taken to strengthen
the procurement capacity in HPSP.
Procurement training under HPSP will continue.
Weak financial management                   S         GOB has strengthened the Management
Accounting Unit with the appointment of four
staff. The Project would also finance TA to the
MAU.
Inadequate capacity for planned             M         TA and partnerships between local
serological surveillance, behavioral                  organizations and international institutions will
surveys and monitoring and evaluation.                be provided. M&E plan will include information
on instruments for data collection, agencies
responsible and a detailed time table prepared
with the SIP.
Project preparation would not be            M         The Project identifies clear time-bound
completed during Year I of project                    benchmarks.
implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                         5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Social: The project's success would depend heavily on GOB's willingness and capacity to finance
interventions among groups at high-risk of contracting and spreading HIV, such as sex workers, injecting
drug users, and men having sex with men. Dealing with these marginalized groups may be considered
- 26 -



controversial and expose GOB and IDA to criticism from conservative groups. Some of the interventions
are likely to be criticized as they involve working with, and therefore acknowledging the existence of, sex
work, drug use and male to male sex, behaviors which are culturally, socially, and religiously taboo. The
harm-minimization approach, which this Project will take, rather than seeking to eliminate these behaviors,
may also be criticized for "encouraging" inappropriate behavior. The criticism is likely to emerge as the
Project scales up, and is visible, and especially if it gains recognition and visibility. As indicated above, the
proposed Project would seek to minimize the impact of this risk by supporting advocacy and coalition
building to sensitize key groups, including policy makers, the media, and religious leaders. Training
activities for the police and armed forces are another critical feature of the Project. This will be
complemented by carefully designed communication campaigns and training to build support for the
STD/AIDS Program among the wider population as well as to reduce stigma and discrimination against
such risk groups.
Implementation: The Project would require that GOB contract out a large proportion of the funds assigned
to the High Risk Group Interventions component to NGOs. This could potentially create tensions within
GOB, among officials opposed to giving up project funding. The acceptance of this arrangement would
depend on the establishment of an effective and transparent fund-flow mechanism, the clear definition of
NGO/GOB roles and responsibilities, the development of clearly defined NGO selection criteria, and
reliable monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The Project would address all of these issues through a
combination of communications campaigns designed to build support for the STD/AIDS Program, a
competitive and efficient NGO selection process, and strong monitoring of NGO activities.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
C1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 27 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
William B. Herbert               Richard Lee Skolnik               Frederick Thomas Temple
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manager
-28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BANGLADESH: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction and      1. MMR reduced             1.1 Bureau of Statistics  1. Improved education status
accelerated human          2. IMR reduced            2.1 Bureau of Statistics   for women
development through        3. <5MR MIF reduced       3.1 Bureau of Statistics   2. Improved employment
improved health and family   4. Malnutrition M/F reduced  4.1 Nutrition Surveys  status and access to credit
welfare among the most     5. Communicable diseases    5.1 Epidemiological      3. Improved legal status and
vulnerable women, children   (STD/HIV, TB, etc.) M/F    surveillance            increased protection for
and poor.                 reduced                    6.1 Demographic and Health women and children
6. Unwanted fertility reduced  Survey
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To control the spread of HIV  1. Reductions in behavioral,  1.1 National Behavioral  1. I USAID to continue
infection within high risk  biological (STD, HepC) and   Surveys                support of National
groups and to limit its spread  social indicators listed in the  1.2 National STD and  Behavioral Survey as in past
to the general population,    evaluafion framework   hepatitis surveillance     two years
without stigmatizing the high  2. Prevalence of HIV infection 2.1 Sentinel surveillance  2.1. HIV infection is spread
risk groups                among sex workers and     2.2 Surveys                by the same sexual behavior
injecting drug users remains  3.1 UNAIDS country profile  that spreads other STDs and
below 5%                  series                     the same injecting drug
3. AIDS Program Effort Index                         behavior that spreads
(API)                                                Hepatitis C.
2.2. STDs exacerbate HIV
transmission.
- 29 -



K  IW Pdrs~n4
Hl.roarih  Qf 0   ctIv            Indcaor         fMonfoia  & 0,Iua,t~            Cultka ismtIonl
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I. Behavior change         1. I % of estimated total high  1.1.1 GOB/NGO contracts    Non-stigmatizing, culturally
intervention and STD       risk sub-population in    awarded, routine NGO and    acceptable interventions bring
treatment programs among    Bangladesh reached by    GOB project reports        about lasting behavior change
high risk groups.          contracted NGOs
1.2 % of high risk groups that 1.2.1 Baseline surveys plus    Those who test positive will
practice safe behavior, viz. (i) National Behavioral Surveys  refrain from behavior that
% of males who use condoms                           puts others at risk
when having sex with CSWs
or other males; (ii) % of                            NGO capacity and interest to
CSWs who use condoms                                 work on HIV/AIDS
routinely; (iii) % of IDUs who
do not share needles; and (iv)                       Timely flow of funds to NGOs
% of STD clients who wear
condoms (if male) and/or %                           Continued TA from
of STD clients who seek                              international donors
clinical help (whether male or
female).
2. Develop and utilize     General Awareness:        2.1.1 Baseline surveys plus   Multisectoral response
information, education and   (Statistics should be collected  National Behavioral Surveys
communication (IEC)        separately for tribal
capacity to support behavior  population)            2.2.1 Baseline surveys plus
change, while minimizing    2.1 % of men and women who National Behavioral Surveys
stigmatization among high    can identify two modes of
risk groups               transmission w/o prompting
2.2 % of men and women who
correctly identify all three
major ways of preventing the
sexual transmission of HIV
AND who reject three major
misconceptions about HIV
transmission or prevention.
2.3% of men and women who 2.3.1 Baseline surveys plus
believe that, if her husband    National Behavioral Surveys
has a STD, a wife can either
refuse to have sex with him or
propose condom use.
2.4 % of men and women    2.4.1 Baseline surveys plus
expressing accepting attitudes National Behavioral Surveys
towards people with HIV.
2.5 % of men and women who 2.5.1 Baseline surveys plus
correctly respond to prompted National Behavioral Surveys
questions about transmission
of HIV from mother to child
at birth and through breast
feeding
2.6 % of police officers
expressing accepting attitudes
towards people with HIV.
- 30 -



Advocacv:
2.7 No. of                2.7.1 Program reports,
workshops/seminars on     workshop documents, APR
HIV/AIDS conducted with
influential members of GOB
and civil society (incl.
religious leaders)
2.8 No. of line directories    2.8.1 Report LD
other than MOHFW with    Inter-sectoral cooperation,
integrated active HIV/AIDS   APR
control project activities (i.e.
MHA, MD)
2.9 No. of high level     2.9.1 Report IMCH, Report
inter-ministerial committee   LD LD Inter-sectoral
meetings with HIV/AIDS    cooperation
control as an agenda point
2.10 Effective mass media   2.10.1 Communication
communication strategy is    Strategy documentation, OP,
developed and implemented   APR
3. Develop a blood safety                                                       Minimal political interference
strategy                   Blood safetv:                                        in research and surveillance
3.1 All blood transfusions at 3.1.1 UMIS, surveys
district and tertiary care level
are tested for HIV/AIDS by
2002, at thana level by 2004
3.2 National QA system for  3.2.1 Site visit, annual
HIV/ AIDS and STD testing  performance review
sites is institutionalized and
operational
4. Strengthen GOB capacity  GOB institutional capacitv
to implement, monitor and    building:
evaluate a decentralized
HIV/AIDS prevention        4.1 HIV/AIDS program      4.2.1 Program organogram,
program.                   directorate fully operational  Job descriptions
with specialist staff in the
fields of M&E, NGO
procurement, social sciences,
BCC, mass media
communication, gender and
inter-ministerial /
inter-sectoral collaboration,
4.2 Organizational home for  4.2.1 Annual "best or
knowledge management      evidence-based practice"
including evidence-based  documentation, discussion
information dissemination    with stakeholder
developed and operational
- 31 -



NGO institutional capacity
buildine:
4.3 Standardized capacity    4.3.1 Organizational capacity
assessment and capacity   and capacity building protocol
development protocol used to  documentation
select and identify capacity
gaps in participating NGOs
4.4 Contracting-out of NGO   4.4.1 Contracts, APR, routine
capacity development to   reports
NGOs or extemal
management training
institutions              4.5.1 Documented standard
4.5 Flexible contract     Resource-Partner NGO
mechanisms established that  contract format, annual
allow NGOs to sub-contract  performance review
smaller NGOs that do not
have the capacity to follow
IDA guidelines
M&E system implemented:
4.6 The M&E unit in the   4.6.1 Information flow
HIV/AIDS Program Unit is   diagrams, TOR, contracts,
constituted and has       reports, APR
formalized links with extemal
research institutions (such as
ICDDR-B, IECDR), UMIS,
IMED and contracted NGOs
4.7 The M&E unit has      4.7.1 APR
sufficient capacity in
specialists areas such as social
/ behavioral science,
epidemiology, health
economics, and procurement
4.8 TOR, report formats and  4.8.1 Project documentation,
time-schedules for internal   M&E reports, procurement
and extemal M&E of project  reports
component activities are
developed and utilized (incl.
external organizational audit
and impact studies)
4.9 Activity, process and  4.9.1 Standard GOB-NGO
output indicator are defined   contract TOR
for packaging component one
and two activities
4.10 Operations research  4.10.1 Studies, OP, APR
activities are contracted out to
scientific national and
intemational bodies
- 32 -



4.11 Data on behavioral,    4.11.1 Annual production of
biological and social     the National Serological and
indicators of impact, on  Behavioral Assessment.
program and area levels of   4.11.2 Production of report
output and on environmental  on the impact of prevention
determinants of risk flows    strategies in year three
into a national HIV/AIDS
program data bank.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Note: As agreed during the negotiations, the key outcomes indicated for those activities which require further
elaboration during the first year of implementation will be reviewed by October 31, 2001.
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BANGLADESH: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
The project would have four main components: 1. High Risk Group Interventions; 2. Communications
and Advocacy; 3. Blood Safety; and 4. Project Support and Institutional Strengthening.
It was agreed during project preparation that, while activities to be financed under component 1 in Year 1
of project implementation would be fully prepared by project effectiveness, components 2, 3 and 4 would
be fully prepared by the end of Year 1.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$22.68 million
1.    High Risk Group Interventions
Preventing the emergence of a major AIDS epidemic in Bangladesh will depend on limiting the transmission
of HIV infection among those groups with the highest prevalence of risk behaviors to the general
population. Curbing HIV infection in these vulnerable groups is the surest and most cost-effective way of
protecting the general population, such as mothers and children in rural areas, from beconiing infected.
Objective
The objective of the most urgent component of the Project would be to achieve rapid coverage of HIV
intervention programs of those populations with the highest rates of infection and/or at highest risk of
infection, and therefore most likely to spread the infection to the general population. This requires
scaling-up, as quickly as possible, intervention programs among risk groups, without stigmatizing them.
Some of these groups are already covered to some extent by intervention programs, which need to be
rapidly expanded.
The national HIV surveillance and numerous studies provide a wealth of information on those groups at
highest risk (see Government of Bangladesh, Report of the Sero-Surveillance and Behavioral Surveillance
on STD and AIDS in Bangladesh 1998-1999, Dhaka: AIDS and STD Control Programme, Directorate
General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, June, 2000, and the forthcoming
report for the year 2000). While all these groups deserve priority, the proposed Project would focus
particular attention on a small number of them, on the basis of knowledge regarding their risk behaviors,
and the presence of major risk factors, such as STD infection, which are useful markers of these behaviors.
Evidence from various countries, including Bangladesh, suggest that priority groups include: (a) injecting
drug users (IDUs); (b) sex workers; and (c) clients of sex workers (rickshaw pullers, truckers, students,
small businessmen, police, sailors and dockers).
The remainder of this section sets forth the best estimates available of the numbers in each risk group, and
the numerical target coverage over the life of the project, as well as the estimated costs of intervention
programs. As additional information becomes available on these risk groups through improved
surveillance and studies (see component 4 for details), the project would revise its targets and activities.
(a)    Injecting Drug Users. As experience in the region and around the world has clearly demonstrated,
HIV spreads most rapidly among this group. There is an estimated total of 12,000 IDUs in Bangladesh,
located primarily in Dhaka, Rajshahi and Chapainawabganj. Many IDUs are also blood donors, and some
- 34 -



are sex workers, providing further potential for transmission of HIV. Fortunately, NGO programs have
already successfully reached substantial numbers of this population--perhaps 4,000-- with an intervention
package including education, enabling environment, condom promotion, needle exchange, and STD
treatment. The proposed Project would seek to reach the whole of this target group, during the first two
years of the Project.
(b)    Sex workers. This group includes brothel-based workers (3,600), hotel-based sex workers
(10,000), street-based sex workers (8,000), male sex workers (7,000), and trans-gender (7,000) sex
workers located primarily in urban settings throughout the country. Some progress is evident in providing
services (behavior change communication, STD treatment, condom promotion, enabling environment) to
this group, mostly through NGOs. Progress in improving STD treatment and developing self-run
organizations appears to be furthest along with street-based sex workers in Dhaka. Most brothels have
awareness programs but initial improvements in condom use and self-reported STD levels have not
increased. Hotel and residence-based workers, the latter of whom are particularly hard to reach, have only
one large awareness program in Dhaka. Perhaps 7,000 of female sex workers have been reached by NGO
programs so far. The project would aim to cover all 35,600 sex workers over the four-year period.
(c)    Sex workers' clients and men on the periphery of the sex trade. The size of the client
population is not known, but is estimated at around 700,000. Studies to date indicate that the most
frequent clients of female street-based sex workers are rickshaw pullers, long-distance truckers (helpers and
drivers), students, small businessmen, police, sailors and dockworkers. Clients need to be reached not only
because they are vulnerable to HIV/AIDS/STD infection and could infect spouses and girlfriends, but also,
importantly, because they may be in a position of influence to affect the behavior of vulnerable or high risk
groups. The police, for instance, have frequently been associated with the harassment of sex workers.
Such harassment drives risk groups underground, and makes it difficult for intervention programs to
successfully reach such groups.
(d)    Men having sex with men (MSMs). It is very difficult to estimate the number of MSMs. One
estimate is 300,000 in Dhaka alone. The substantial part of the MSMs who are engaging in high-risk
activities will be covered under the other three groups--CSWs, IDUs and CSWs' clients. Basic
interventions to be targeted at this population are similar to those for CSWs, that is, behavior change
communication, STD treatment, condom promotion and creating an enabling environment.
Experience suggests that interventions for these groups require different approaches in different parts of the
country. Some of these groups have already been reached through NGO interventions. An often
cost-effective approach is to carry out interventions at or near the contact venues for the sex trade.
Implementation Arrangements. These groups will be targeted primarily through group education activities
implemented through NGOs and, occasionally, Government, as suggested in the National Strategy Plan for
the National AIDS Program of Bangladesh (1997-2001). NGOs have the clear comparative advantage to
reach most of these groups. Component 4 (Project Support and Institutional Development) describes the
proposed NGO contracting mechanism, the capacity building arrangements, as well as the monitoring and
evaluation arrangements. Government has a critical role to play in performing training activities for certain
sex worker client groups, including the police and migrant workers. The Ministry of Home Affairs has
committed itself to integrating a module on HIV/AIDS infection and prevention into ongoing training
activities. Similarly, migrants will be approached through a combination of Government institutions and
NGOs, and through interventions such as pre-departure programs and programs for returning migrants.
Industrial labor and small businessmen will be approached through the private sector and NGOs. Finally,
students can be reached through a combination of interventions by the educational system and NGOs.
- 35 -



IDA would fimance education, training and workshops, NGO and consultant services, condom promotion,
needle exchange, STD drugs, laboratory equipment and supplies, incremental salaries and operating
expenses.
Project Component 2 - US$15.85 million
2.    Communications and Advocacy
Successful interventions to increase awareness and create support for HIV/AIDS prevention programs are
critical of their own right and for the sustainability of activities aimed at preventing an HIV/AIDS epidemic
in Bangladesh. Although efforts have been made by Government to undertake advocacy and awareness
campaigns on HIV/AIDS, the quality of these efforts needs to be enhanced and its scale expanded.
The National HIV/AIDS Behavior Change Communication Strategic Implementation Plan for Bangladesh
(November 1999) serves as a good framework for action. This Project, however, will focus sharply on a
small number of priority awareness and advocacy activities. Very importantly, it will seek to create an
enabling environment for interventions programs financed under the Project.
It is important to recognize the need to maintain a careful balance between respecting cultural sensitivities
while at the same time promoting effective change. A sequenced, phased approach to audience targeting,
message content development, delivery channel use, frequency and intensity of message delivery will
therefore be a key feature of the strategic thinking under this component. It was agreed during project
appraisal that such details would be worked out during Year 1 of project implementation.
Objective
The objective of this component is to create support for the HIV/AIDS prevention program by: (a) raising
awareness, knowledge and understanding among the general population about HIV/AIDS/STD; (b)
facilitating the adoption of safe practices across the whole society; (c) encouraging the mobilization of
resources and commitment for the implementation of the HIV/AIDS/STD Prevention Program; and, very
importantly, (d) reducing stigmatization of HIV/AIDS affected people. These objectives will be achieved
through activities to be financed under two sub-components: (1) Advocacy; and (2) Public awareness.
There will be a natural overlap of audiences and messages among activities financed under these
sub-components. Activities are designed to complement and reinforce each other.
I.    Advocacy
This sub-component would seek to create support for the HIV/AIDS program among key groups who
influence or are instrumental to the success of the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project, such as key national,
religious, and opinion leaders. It will do so by sequencing advocacy activities throughout the project
implementation period as follows:
i.    Advocacy campaigns to supportive and key policy makers (Ministries of Education, Home Affairs,
Information, Defense), journalists and religious leaders; and
ii.    Expansion of advocacy efforts to other members of the political and social leadership (local
authorities, parliamentarians, key industrial groups, senior administration).
- 36 -



IL    Public Awareness
The objective of this sub-component would be to increase the knowledge and understanding among the
general population about HIV/AIDS/STD transmission and prevention, and to create a positive,
non-discriminatory environment for people affected by H1V/AIDS. It would also seek to create
understanding and support among the public for GOB and NGO intervention programs. The Project would
rely on public information programs channeled through the mass dissemination of critical information on
HIV. Mass media campaigns would be organized at the central and district levels, using TV spots and
programs, radio, cinema and local cinema, billboards, leaflets, concerts, traditional folk music and street
theater. Finally, the Project would also pilot the establishment of an HIV/AIDS hot-line to deliver basic
information about HIV/AIDS infection and prevention in Dhaka and Chittagong.
These activities, while launched nation-wide from the beginning, would need to reflect a slowly evolving
message content, initially seeking to disseminate information about HIV infection, its transmission and
prevention in a low-key manner and then becoming more explicit. Message content and explicitness would
vary depending on the communication channel being used. Finally, messages would have to be targeted to
different audiences. According to the Demographic Health Survey (1996/97), a much lower percentage of
women have heard of H1V/AIDS than men. Therefore, effectiveness of public awareness activities on
different gender will be monitored, and the message channel would be chosen accordingly. Similarly,
public awareness activities targeted at tribal populations would use appropriate language and media.
Implementation Arrangements. Government through the STD/AIDS Program Unit would be responsible
for the overall policy development, management and coordination; development of IEC/advocacy strategy
and guidelines; contracting out of message design, production and delivery to private firms or NGOs; and
monitoring and evaluation of interventions. The private sector would be a potential candidate both for the
design of a communication strategy as well as for the implementation of the communication and advocacy
interventions throughout the project. Commercial advertising companies in Bangladesh have proven
capacity to carry out activities such as communication needs assessments, message development and testing
(audio-visual, print), production and dissemination of information, organization of group and mass events.
Various private sector companies could be contracted at simultaneous moments with different roles,
according to their respective activities packages (e.g., mass media, organization of group meetings or
conferences). Finally, NGOs have a comparative advantage to reach some of the groups identified under
sub-component II, and would also be engaged in the piloting of the telephone hot-line on HIV/AIDS.
IDA would finance publicity, information education communication, NGO and consultant services,
vehicles, operational research and other surveys and studies, training, conferences, workshops and study
tours, and incremental salaries and operating expenses.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.01 million
Blood Safety
At present, GOB has no mandatory regulation requiring that transfused blood be tested for infectious
diseases such as HIV. The National AIDS Committee has prepared a Safe Blood Transfusion Act, which
is awaiting legislative endorsement before becoming effective in both the public and private sector. In
addition, professional blood donation through individuals that belong to high risk behavior groups such as
IDU is the predominant source of blood for hospitals, private blood banks and transfusion centers. As a
result, the blood supply in the country remains a key risk element in the transmission of HIV.
- 37 -



Objective
This component would seek to facilitate the expansion of safe-blood initiatives. It was agreed during
project preparation that details of this component's design and activities would be developed by the end of
Year 1 of project implementation.
It is expected that, at least initially, this component would focus on channeling funding for the continuation
of UNDP's Safe Blood Transfusion Project for the provision of laboratory equipment and human resource
capacity building for 97 district and tertiary care facilities. UNDP funding for this Project is expected to
run out in late 2001. The national blood safety policy envisages that safe blood initiatives would also cover
thana level facilities.
Subject to adequate proposals by GOB, the project could also contribute to the establishment of a National
Reference Laboratory, and/or a feasibility study of privatization of blood transfusion services.
Finally, the Project would seek to discourage professional blood donation by mobilizing voluntary
donations through IEC and BCC campaign (under component 1).
Subject to a satisfactory GOB proposal, IDA could finance blood safety equipment, HIV test kits, vehicles,
consultant services, operational research and other studies, training, and incremental salaries and operating
expenses.
Project Component 4 - US$9.05 million
Project Support and Institutional Strengthening
The GOB is committed to preventing a widespread HIV/AIDS epidemic, mainly through actions taken
within the framework of the Health and Population Sector Project (HPSP). Successful and sustainable
implementation of the HIV/AIDS Prevention project in the context of HPSP will require adequate
MOHFW and NGO capacity, and effective quality assurance mechanisms.
Objective
The Project Support and Institutional Strengthening component provides a necessary foundation for the
delivery of high-impact HIV prevention services through components 1, 2 and 3. It would do so through
activities financed under the following sub-components: (I) Project Management and Capacity Building;
and (II) Monitoring, Evaluation and Operational Research.
I.    Project Management and Capacity Building sub-component
The objective of this sub-component would be to strengthen the STD/AIDS Program technical and
managerial capacity with the aim of facilitating the rapid scaling up of HIV/AIDS prevention activities.
This would be achieved by securing adequate disbursement of funds and procurement of goods and
services, including for the contracting of NGOs and other partners; the provision of critical training
activities to NGOs and other implementing partners; and effective supervision of project activities. These
activities would need to be carried out in the context of Health and Population Sector Project (HPSP)
procedures.
- 38-



1.    National STD/AIDS Program Management and Capacity Building. The National STD/AIDS
Program technical and managerial capacity would need strengthening at systems, entity and individual
levels. Priorities under the Project include: enhancing strategic planning skills; ensuring adequate staff and
skills levels of the STD/AIDS Program Unit and other critical MOHFW Units, with a particular focus on
procurement and financial management; communications; monitoring and evaluation; and operational
research.
2.    NGO Contract Management System. Field implementation of interventions targeted at high-risk
groups would be conducted primarily by NGOs, both large and small, that have experience in addressing
STD/HIV, health and/or social sector issues.
Based on the experience of the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Program (BNIP), a mechanism for
contracting of NGOs was developed which would allow for speed and scale in implementation, while
facilitating the adequate monitoring/oversight and NGO capacity strengthening. The STD/AIDS Program
Unit would contract one or more "resource" NGOs to provide technical support and training to smaller, less
experienced NGOs, as well as to assist the STD/AIDS Unit in the contracting of "implementing" NGOs.
Given the need of urgent scaling up of activities, and since a number of NGOs have already successfully
achieved partial coverage of some groups, procurement of NGOs would be in two phases. Phase I would
allow for large, established, well-managed organizations to be brought into the project immediately. Year 1
implementation activities would be contracted out to a selected group of NGOs with proven records and
success in working with HIV. At the same time, one or more "resource" NGOs would be selected to
provide the necessary capacity building and contracting support to the STD/AlDS Program Unit. Phase 2
would thus allow for smaller NGOs to be trained and selected. Starting at the end of Year 1, and
throughout the rest of project life, smaller NGOs would thus participate as "implementing" NGOs in the
expansion of activities among high-risk groups.
Year 1 "implementing" NGOs would need to be able to perform interventions among high risk groups with
speed (i.e. to have been working on HIV/AIDS related activities in Bangladesh for at least 3 years), scale
(i.e., to have been delivering services to at least 1000 high risk group members every month, and present in
at least 3 districts) and sensitivity (i.e., a good match between NGO's plans and the project's Year 1 needs).
Interested NGOs who meet these criteria would be evaluated on the basis of a number of technical and
financial criteria.
In addition to these criteria, "resource" NGO would be selected based on: (a) past record of demonstrated
technical skills, capacity and experience in HIV/AIDS prevention; (b) experience with assisting other
NGOs; (c) management skills, resources and practices, particularly in human resource and financial
management; and (d) apparent satisfaction of stakeholders.
Given the small number of NGOs working with risk groups in Bangladesh that show the track record and
capacity to undertake the above tasks without prior capacity building, it was agreed that, based on an
adequate technical, managerial and financial capacity assessment, Year I "implementing" NGOs and a
"resource" NGO would be selected on competitive basis.
As for the criteria for pre-selection and selection of smaller "implementing" NGOs, Government agreed to
define them within nine months of project effectiveness, and make them consistent with IDA procurement
guidelines. One such requirement would include the completion of the training module on interventions
among high risk groups described in section 3 below.
- 39 -



"Implementing" NGOs would assume responsibility for either: (a) all activities for one high risk group in a
geographical area (e.g., female sex workers in Chittagong); (b) one activity in a defined geographical area
for all high risk groups in that area (e.g., providing clinical services in Rajshahi); or (c) all activities for all
high risk groups in a defined geographical area (e.g., implementing the program in an entire district).
3.     Training on Interventions Among High Risk Groups. While there already is substantial
experience, especially among NGOs, in implementing HIV/AIDS prevention interventions among high risk
groups in Bangladesh, there continue to be important gaps in knowledge regarding lessons learned and best
practices for interventions among high risk groups. Filling these gaps is critical to effectively and
sustainably meeting the project's objective of curbing the transmission of HIV. In addition, in order to
achieve rapid coverage of high risk groups throughout the country, NGOs will require substantial capacity
strengthening. Completion of training on the management and provision of interventions would therefore
be a requirement for the selection of NGOs or other implementing partners in interventions among groups
at high risk.
During project appraisal, USAID and DflD agreed to finance the training workshops. Capacity building of
small, less experienced NGOs on implementation and supervision of interventions will be the responsibility
of the "resource" NGO(s).
IL.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Operational Research
T he objective of this sub-component would be to provide critical inforrnation on the progress of the
STD/AIDS program as a whole (regardless of the source of financing) as well as on the success of project
activities, thereby facilitating feedback into project design. It would contribute to the development of
regular nationwide behavioral and biological surveillance. It would also, through surveys and research,
contribute necessary technical information for continued project implementation and adjustments which
could enhance the impact of the STD/AIDS program. It was agreed that the details of this sub-component
would be prepared by the end of Year I of project implementation.
1.    Surveillance. With the assistance of the International Center for Diarrhoeal Diseases Research,
Bangladesh (ICDDR,B) and CARE, Bangladesh, GOB has conducted two rounds of expanded HIV
biological and behavioral surveillance focused on high risk groups (see Government of Bangladesh, Report
of the Sero-Surveillance and Behavioral Surveillance on STD and AIDS in Bangladesh 1998-1999, Dhaka:
AIDS and STD Control Programme, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare, June, 2000, and the forthcoming report for the year 2000). Evaluation would require that
such assessments be repeated at specified intervals and that their scope be extended to groups not yet
represented in the national assessment. DfID and USAID have agreed to fund the 2000/01 surveillance
round. The Project would support the transfer of the sero- and behavioral surveillance rounds from
ICDDR,B to the Institute for Epidemiology, Disease Control and Research (IEDCR).
2.     Monitoring. Evaluation and Operational Research. Activities would include: (a) creating a
centralized geographic informnation system (GIS) called the Bangladesh National HIV/AIDS Monitoring
and Evaluation Database (BNHMED); (b) training the STD/AIDS Program Unit in evidence-based health
program management; (c) conducting baseline, midterm, and final evaluations; (d) conducting a
performance review; and (e) conducting studies, e.g., on syndromic STD case management, social
marketing, impact of empowerment support activities for high-risk groups and other topics which would
improve the design and impact of the Project.
- 40 -



Implementation arrangements: Government through the STD/AIDS Program Unit would be responsible
for the overall policy development, management and coordination of activities; contracting out of activities
to private firms, research institutions or NGOs; and monitoring and evaluation of interventions. For the
sero- and behavioral surveillance, operational research, and independent monitoring, the STD/AIDS Unit
and Program would seek the support of research institutions like the International Centre for Diarrhoeal
Diseases Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B) Institution of Epidemiology, and Disease Control Research
(IECDR). Also, the "resource" NGO(s) would be involved in the capacity building and monitoring and
evaluation of interventions by smaller NGOs.
IDA would finance medical and laboratory equipment, vehicles, GIS, training and workshops, consultant
services, surveys and studies, incremental salaries and operating expenses.
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BANGLADESH: HIVIAIDS Prevention Project
High Risk Group Interventions                                 20.30           0.00         20.30
Communications and Advocacy                                   13.70           0.00          13.70
Blood Safety                                                   2.85           1.43          4.28
Project Support and Institutional Strengthening                7.82           0.04          7.86
Total Baseline Cost                                           44.67           1.47         46.14
Physical Contingencies                                        3.14           0.15          3.29
Price Contingencies                                           3.03           0.13          3.16
Total Project Costs                50.84           1.75         52.59
Total Financing Required                 50.84           1.75          52.59
Goods                                                            1.50            1.41          2.91
Services                                                       43.10            0.05         43.15
Operational Expenses                                             0.07            0.01          0.08
Physical Contingencies                                           3.14            0.15          3.29
Price Contingencies                                              3.03            0.13          3.16
Total Project Costs      50.84            1.75         52.59
Total Financing Required       50.84            1.75          52.59
N.B.: Due to the phased nature of project preparation, these costs are approximate. Detailed costing will be included in the
final Strategic Implementation Plan. Exact totals may not match because of roundings.
-42-



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
BANGLADESH: HIVIAIDS Prevention Project
During project preparation, it was agreed that, given existing information and time constraints the
economic analysis would remain realistic and simple, addressing issues such as the future development of
the epidemic.
Given limited data on various behavioral and epidemiological parameters and an almost total lack of
information on impact of interventions, it is not possible at this stage to derive reasonably acceptable
quantitative estimates of cost effectiveness. However, the development of systematic monitoring and
evaluation activities would be a critical objective of the Project. In was therefore agreed that, in lieu of ex
ante cost effectiveness analysis, the Project, through financing epidemiological information of trends in
HIV prevalence, behavioral surveys, and monitoring and evaluation of costs and effects of specific
interventions, will enable meaningful economic analysis in the future.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
-43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BANGLADESH: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Years Ending
June 30 (FY)
(US$ million, base year 2001)
I Year1 I   Year 2  I Year 3  I Year 4  1 Year 5    Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           4.0      13.9       19.1       15.5       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          4.0      13.9       19.1      15.6        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              4.0      13.9       19.1      15.6        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  3.0       10.6      14.5       11.9       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.2        0.6       1.1        0.7       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.8        2.7       3.5        3.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     4.0      13.9       19.1       15.6       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BANGLADESH: HIVIAIDS Prevention Project
Procurement
1. For procurement of goods, financed in part or whole from IDA funds, the procedures outlined in the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 (Revised January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply. Civil works, under this project, will be
funded by GOB. The detailed costing and implementation plan will be presented in the final Strategic
Implementation Plan. Consultants' services financed in part or in whole from IDA funds will be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1977, revised September 1997 and January 1999. Due to the public health threat of
HIV/AIDS and the urgency to scale up high risk group interventions, the project is not fully elaborated.
Therefore, the estimated costs of the various items to be financed under the project are very tentative. Only
procurement details that will be carried out during the first year of implementation have been identified.
During negotiations, agreement was reached for GOB to provide within nine months of project
effectiveness (October31, 2001) an overall Procurement Plan for the remaining period.
2. Table A summarizes the project items, the related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement.
Amounts in parentheses show the amounts to be financed by IDA. Table B summarizes the thresholds for
procurement methods and prior review.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement will be undertaken in accordance with the following procedures:
Goods (US$ 3.44 million):
3. Goods costing US$300,000 or above per contract will be procured on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Other goods estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.0 million will be procured following National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures, acceptable to IDA. Urgently required items estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per
contract, in aggregate not to exceed US$0.5 million, will be procured following national shopping
procedures (i.e., by obtaining at least three price quotations from qualified suppliers).
Services (US$ 49.06 million):
4. Services include training, including workshops and fellowships ($3.44 million), NGO services ($20.68
million), EEC ($9.51 million), and consultants, studies and other professional services ($15.43 million).
(a) Implementation of the Project will be carried out by the Government in partnership with NGOs.
Selection of all NGOs will be carried out with IDA's prior approval. NGOs will be contracted for
advocacy and communication, risk group intervention, and training. During the first year of
implementation, it is expected that the first batch of "large" NGOs will be chosen using the Quality Based
Selection (QBS) method. Based on experiences gained from year one, and the fact that activities in
subsequent years will be carried out by a larger number of small NGOs, the second batch of NGOs may be
selected using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. The selection process of such NGOs
will be based on the model developed under the National Nutrition Project (NNP). See Appendix 1 to this
Annex.
-45 -



(b) Consulting firms will employed by GOB to carry out various studies, surveys and performance audits
and they will be selected on the basis of QCBS method;
(c) Individual consultants required will be selected in accordance with Section V of the Consultants'
Guidelines;
(d) Due to the urgent need to provide quality technical assistance with global experience to NGOs,
UNAIDS may be asked by the MOHFW to contract consultants up to an aggregate value of $1 million.
These consultants will be hired using IDA consultants through arrangements established by UNAIDS;
(e) Training requirements will be included in the annual work plan of the Line Director (Training) and will
be subject to review during the Annual Program Review (Phase 1).
Operating Costs (US$0.09 million):
5. The operating costs of the Project are estimated to be US$0.09 million. These costs would be eligible
for financing under the Credit.
Procurement Responsibilities:
6. Procurement will be carried out in accordance with agreements reached under HPSP and detailed in its
PAD.
Procurement Capacity Review:
7. Procurement capacity in the health and nutrition sector continues to be weak. However, in order to
strengthen the capacity of the Central Medical Stores Depot (CMSD), responsible for procurement of
goods, three national consultants have been recruited. With their involvement, implementation is likely to
improve. The real problem that is expected under this Project is the selection of NGOs and consultants and
the risks associated with such procurement are rated to be high. To mitigate the risks, procurement training
initiated under HPSP will continue.
Procurement and Selection Planning:
8. The Project's procurement requirements for Goods and Services for the first year have been identified in
the SIP. In addition, on an annual basis, GOB will prepare separate three-year rolling Procurement Plans
for HIV/AIDS activities as per HPSP Planning Guidelines. Prior to issuance of any invitation for bids for
procurement of goods and selection of services' contracts, the proposed Plans shall be furnished to IDA for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the respective
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and selection of all consultants and NGOs shall be undertaken in
accord with Plans as shall have been approved by IDA and with the provisions of said paragraph 1 of the
respective Guidelines.
Use of Standard Documents:
9. For ICB procurement of goods, the use of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) is mandatory.
For NCB procurement, the SBD for goods approved by the Association will be used. For selection of
consulting furms and NGOs, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals, including standard contract forms,
-46 -



will be used. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form for Goods and Sample Form of Evaluation for
Services will be followed for submission of evaluation reports to IDA.
IDA prior review thresholds (Table B)
10. Goods: IDA will carry out prior review of all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$300,000 or more. All other contracts will be subject to selective post-review by IDA.
11. Services: IDA's prior review will be required for all services' contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more for firms. For individual consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference (TOR) and terns of employment of
the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review. In addition, IDA's prior review will be
required for TORs of all contracts irrespective of contract price.
12. Review of Procurement Performance: The procurement status and its compliance with the Bank's
Guidelines will be monitored on a continuous basis by IDA. As part of the Project's planned mid-term
review in CY2003, a comprehensive assessment of procurement performance will also be carried out.
Based on this assessment, in consultation with GOB, IDA may revise the prior review threshold and the
procurement and selection methods.
Acceptability of NCB:
13. In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines:
(i) standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used;
(ii) invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper and
bidding documents shall be made available to prospective bidders at least 28 days prior to the deadline for
the submission of bids;
(iii) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost;
(iv) bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fee;
(v) foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to
national bidders;
(vi) qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding
documents, and if a registration process is required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated
bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let or hindrance;
(vii) bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail;
(viii) all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding documents, with a bidder's bid
security applying only to a specific bid;
(ix) bids shall be opened in public in one place, preferably immediately, but no later than one hour, after
-47 -



the deadline for submission of bids;
(x) evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding documents,
in a format and specified period agreed to with the Association;
(xi) a bid shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the
prior concurrence of the Association;
(xii) split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out;
(xiii) when two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made to determine
any evidence of collusion, following which (A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be
disqualified and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder and (B) if
no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of
the Association;
(xiv) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial period of bid validity so
that extensions are not necessary, and extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional
circumstances;
(xv) extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Association for the
first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks and for all subsequent requests for extensions
irrespective of the period;
(xvi) negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
(xvii) re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's prior concurrence; and
(xviii) all contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated in the contract
documents, with a contractor's or a supplier's performance security applying to a specific contract under
which it was furnished.
Financial Management and Disbursement System:
1.    MOHFW is the responsible ministry for ensuring that project funds will be spent for purposes
intended and with due care to economy and efficiency. Recognizing the need for improving its financial
management systems, GOB initiated the RIBEC project in 1989 with the assistance of expatriate and
national consultants.
2.    Under RIBEC, functional and economic classifications of budget and expenditure have been
developed. The Management Accounting Unit (MAU) has been established in the MOHEW in July 1997 as
an extension of the existing Chief Accountant's Office (CAO) with the technical support from RIBEC. This
unit is responsible for disbursement of funds for sectoral expenditure, preparation of ministry's accounts,
monitoring and analysis of financial information, preparing reports for donors, above all developing a
sectoral financial management system.
3.    Under HPSP, the MAU has been further strengthened by combining the CAO's establishment and
the Program Finance Cell (PFC), created earlier for ensuring proper fund flow system of donor funded
project in the MOHFW. The PFC is responsible for fund disbursement of special categories that are
- 48 -



beyond sectoral expenditure.
4.     An assessment of the project financial management system and actions to be taken are given below:
5.    Being the first pilot ministry of RIBEC, the MOHFW is well ahead of other ministries in terms of
accounting, reporting and fund management of development projects. DFID has provided technical
assistance for building these capacities. During HPSP preparation and implementation, it was agreed that
recruiting additional staff and providing technical assistance would strengthen MAU's role. Thus,
additional support to MAU would further develop its capacity to meet donor financial management
requirements and institutionalize the capacity. It was also agreed that CAO's and PFC's functions would
be brought under MAU of the MOHFW in order to ensure proper coordination of financial management
activities. MOHFW prepared an Organogram, with staff requirements and its reporting mechanism both
inside and outside the MOHFW.
6.    It has been a great concem that there has been little progress in these actions, even after two half
years of HPSP's project life. As a result, MAU could not perform its due role and responsibilities due to
the current constraint. The status of MAU has been further aggravated by operational problems emerging
from HPSP's implementation. Although MAU is submitting quarterly financial reports in the agreed format
to the Bank while claiming IDA funds, the delay of preparation of the annual Financial Statement last year
resulted in delay of audit completion. As a part of the on going supervision, this has been addressed and
MAU is now capable of preparing timely Financial Statements.
7.    In order for MAU to ensure the basic setting up of a financial management system for HIV/AIDS,
including preparing timely Project Management Reports (PMRs), two up front actions are required: (i)
recruitment of four additional staff in the MAU, as planned, and necessary staff training, and (ii) System
for Flow of Information between MAU and Line directors.
8.    The HIV/AIDS Prevention Project would be implemented within HPSP's existing operational
structure. It has been agreed that the Project will have separate legal and financial covenants and will
maintain a Special Account. There will be no separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry
for this Project. To improve management capacity to carry out administrative functions for the Project, the
MOHFW has appointed four additional staff to the MAU. This increase in staff will help to ensure project
accounting, intemal control and timely disbursements, and basic project financial management
requirements, including provision of Project Management Reports (PMRs). It has been agreed that the
Project will finance necessary technical assistance to the MAU to overcome existing bottlenecks and help to
prepare timely project financial statements. PFC will be responsible for preparation of withdrawal
applications and providing information relating to project expenditure and special accounts to the Bank.
The STD/AIDS Program Unit will liaise closely with the MAU and PFC on issues relating to financial
information of the Project and assist in preparing sector accounts.
9.    Key aspects of the Financial Management System are as follows:
10.   Staffing: As mentioned, MAU was not able to perform financial management without additional
trained staff. MOHFW has appointed four staff to the MAU. This should provide the necessary resources
to meet financial/accounting obligations. The Project will also provide any additional training to MAU staff
as needed.
11.   Project Accounting System: The PFC of the MOHFW will be responsible for overall project
financial management, accounting and maintaining books of accounts. The MAU will prepare and
- 49 -



disseminate financial statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial
statements. Project accounts will be maintained using the RIBEC code with additional customized
software, which is expected to be in place by April 2001.
12.   Project Financial Statements and financial reports will be fully based on the project books of
accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
13.   Financial Reporting: Once the computerization process is completed by April 2001, Quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs) for the Project will be generated from the computerized financial
management system. The MAU will be responsible for the preparation of quarterly project monitoring
reports and annual financial statements of the Project on which the annual audit will be carried out. Project
Monitoring Reports will show: (a) financial statements with a summary of the project financial status
(includes: Sources and Uses of Funds for 'each quarter', 'year to-date', and 'cumulative costs of the project
to-date'; Usage of funds by Project Activities; Cash Withdrawal; Cash Forecast; and a Special Account
Statement); (b) Output Monitoring Report; and (c) Procurement Management Report. The specific PMR
formats will be designed and agreed by March 31, 2001.
14.   Depending upon the computerization process and timeliness of report generation by the
computerized system by September 30, 2001, a decision will be taken on switching over to PMRs based
disbursement. In the interim period, the MAU will submit manual reports on Sources and Usage of Funds
for each quarter and year to date and Procurement Management Reports. Disbursement will be made
following traditional disbursement procedures until the conversion to PMR based disbursement.
15.    Flow of Funds: IDA funds for the Project will flow through the PFC of MOHFW which will
disburse funds on eligible expenditures as recommended by the respective line directors.
16.   Flow of Information: The delay in preparing timely financial reports in the MOHFW was due to
the lack of any mechanism for exchanging information between MAU and the line directors responsible for
implementing project activities. The MAU of MOHFW has now developed a system for receiving timely
fmancial information. It has been recommended and the MOHFW has already implemented the formation
of a Budget Committee and a Coordination cell consisting of representatives from MAU and line directors
in the MOHFW for ensuring proper monitoring of budget and expenditures, and to address operational
bottlenecks.
17.   Financial Sustainability: Because the project interventions are highly focused on the high-risk
groups, total cost-recovery from conununity-based services is limnited. Thus, longer-term financial
sustainability may only be achieved if the community takes on more direct responsibilities for operating and
management of activities by providing "in kind" services. However, Government will still need to conmmit
itself to incorporating STD/HIV-AIDS prevention services into its primary health care system. The
community mobilization efforts of NGOs, along with the GOB's stated plans for decentralization, provide
concrete steps for placing management of later projects into community hands.
18.   Audits: The Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), through the Directorate of Audits,
Foreign Aided Projects, carries out the audits of foreign-aided projects. MOHFW is now initiating a
performance audit of HPSP. Annual audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year. Considering recent audit experiences under HPSP and BINP, special attention
will be paid to ensure that agreed action plans are carried out.
- 50 -



19.    Although the annual audit report of HPSP has been received and reviewed in a timely manner, the
auditor expressed a qualified audit opinion on the project account. The qualification was due primarily to
misuse of government resources, and was brought to the attention of MOHFW. MOHFW formed a special
investigation committee and suspended implicated staff. IDA has requested elaboration of MOHFW
responses to other material audit observations and a time-bound action plan is being prepared to resolve
these. Considering the recent experiences with audits of HPSP and BINP, special attention will be paid to
ensure agreed action plans are carried out.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
20.    Financial Management System: The project will support adequate TA to strengthen the current
financial management inadequacies in the MAU and mainstreaming the project financial management
system with government existing structure.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ProCuremnt M.thod~
Expenditure Categoy                             nB2                      N.8F. .u.
1. Works                           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                           2.00           0.10           1.34          0.00          3.44
(1.84)        (0.04)         (0.96)        (0.00)        (2.84)
3. Services                        0.00          13.07          35.99          0.00         49.06
(0.00)        (9.18)        (27.96)        (0.00)       (37.14)
4. Operational Expenditures        0.00           0.00          0.09           0.00          0.09
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.03)        (0.00)        (0.03)
Total                           2.00           13.17         37.42          0.00         52.59
(1.84)        (9.22)        (28.95)        (0.00)       (40.01)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
I Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Costs are estimated, and will be subject to change.
Note: Numbers may not add up, due to rounding.
- 51 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works
2. Goods                 All contracts estimated to        ICB                   Prior Review
cost US$300,000 or more
Contracts estimated to cost       NCB                  Ex-Post Review
less than US$300,000, up
to an aggregate of
US$1,000,000.
Contracts estimated to cost  National Shopping         Ex-Post review
less than US$20,000, up to
an aggregate of
US$500,000
3. Services             All Single Source contracts    Single Source             Prior review
for Firms and NGOs
Contracts estimated to cost       QCBS                  Prior Review
US$ 100,000 or more for
Firms and NGOs
QCBS                 Ex-post review
Firms and NGO Contracts
estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 for Firms and
NGOs
Individual              Prior Review
Contracts estimated to cost
US$50,000 or more for
Individuals
Individual             Ex-post review
Contracts estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 for
Individuals
- 52 -



Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 53 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C shows the allocation of IDA proceeds and the financing for the various categories of expenditures.
Preparation of withdrawal applications would be the responsibility of the Program Finance Cell (PFC).
Disbursement estimates of IDA proceeds over a four year period are presented on page -iv- of the PAD.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Ej;0  p*nditure Ca:0.00gp rv 07 AiiprntU$mi itton 1       Finanlng4i   P
Goods                                       2.82           100% of foreign expenditure, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
70% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants services (including NGOs,      33.12                         100%
training, and studies)
Incremental Salaries and Operating          0.06          100% in FY01 and FY02, 60% in FY 03
Costs                                                          and 04, and 40% thereafter
Unallocated                                 4.00
Total Project Costs                        40.00
Total                                      40.00
Table C shows an estimated allocation of IDA proceeds andfinancingfor the various categories of
expenditures.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Until PMR-based disbursement is agreed upon, the traditional disbursement procedures will be applicable
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit. With each withdrawal application, IDA will require full
documentation where contracts for (i) goods exceed US$300,(0() equivalent, (ii) consulting firms exceed
US$ 100,000 equivalent, and (iii) individual consultants exceed US$50,000. Expenditures below the above
thresholds and expenditures for operating costs of the Program Management Unit will be claimed through
SOEs.
Special account:
To ensure timely payments to NGOs, consultants, and suppliers a Special Account (SA) in Convertible
Taka will be established in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The PFC will
have access to the Special Account for making payment of IDA's share of eligible expenditures, including
submitting withdrawal applications to IDA. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be
equivalent to four months of estimated expenditures, which is estimated to be US$3.25 million equivalent.
At the start of the Project, the initial deposit to the Special Account will be limited to US$2.0 million
equivalent. The remaining amount of the authorized allocation may be requested only after the cumulative
disbursements reach the equivalent of SDR 5.0 million. When final agreement is reached to switch over to
PMR-based disbursements, the authorized allocation to the Special Account would be limited to the
equivalent of six months' estimated expenditures, which are estimated to be US$6.0 million.
- 54 -



Appendix to Annex 6
Procurement of NGO Services to Assist in the Implementation of the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Background:
1.    The overall objective of the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project will be to control the spread of HIV
infection within the high-risk groups and to limit its spread to the general population, without stigmatizing
the high-risk groups. In achieving this objective, the main focus will be on four outputs, namely:
- Strengthening program management
- High risk group intervention for behavioral change
- Surveillance and research
- Communication and advocacy
2.    The HIV/AIDS Prevention Project will be an essential part of the HPSP in planning,
implementation and management, including review. The World Bank assistance will be a part of the'
pooled fund' and 'ring fenced' with a special category designated as Category 7 expenditure for HPSP.
The main focus of strengthening program management will be on creating an enabling environment to
manage the HIV/AIDS Prevention Program by the MOHFW. However, as this is a multi-sectoral
program, the capacity of other sectors, including the NGOs, would also be enhanced.
General Principles:
3.    The Government plans to contract NGOs to assist with the implementation of HIV/AIDS
Prevention Program in order to:
-    make use of all available resources in both public and private sectors to implement this
priority program as rapidly as possible;
-    bring to bear the skills and experience of NGOs in the areas of community mobilization,
behavioral change among the targeted high-risk behavior groups, the delivery of HIV/AIDS
awareness building services, and field supervision, in order to achieve as high quality program
as possible;
-    avoid the creation of a new cadre of government field staff which might become a long term
recurrent cost burden on the Government; and
-    implement a prevention strategy that focuses on promoting safe behavior among
high-risk-groups.
4.    The Government's NGO selection and contracting policy for the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
aims at:
-    being fair and transparent and giving equal opportunity to all qualified NGOS;
-    ensuring that the most technically, managerially and financially competent NGOs are selected
- 55 -



for participation; and
-    avoiding the involvement of so many NGOs that can burden management with selection,
contracting and supervision, and thereby slow implementation of the program.
5.    To achieve the above aims, The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) will:
-    contract NGOs on a competitive basis, using clear selection criteria and a transparent
selection process;
-    package services and geographic areas together so as to limit the number of contracts it signs
with a small number of NGOs; and
-    encourage contracted NGOs to associate with other NGOs in implementation in order to give
a broader group of NGOs with relevant skills an opportunity to contribute to the program.
II. Contract Packa2ina
6.    Under the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project, NGOs will be contracted to provide four broad based
specific package of services in a specific geographic area, as follow:
Specific Packages:
BCC & IEC:          to  foster  Behavior  Change  Communication  and  Information,  Education
Communication among high risk behavior groups
Service Delivery:   to provide domiciliary and facility based services to high risk behavior groups
Training:           to provide training to health service providers and smaller NGOs in both public and
private sector
7.    NGOs will be contracted to provide one or both of the following services:
-    Resource NGOs will be contracted to provide a package of capacity building services for both
the public and NGO sector, commensurate with their capability.
-    Implementing NGOs will be contracted to provide a package of HIV/AIDS advocacy,
awareness building, behavioral change among the high-risk groups, community
mobilization/empowerment, risk mitigation, care and intervention services.
Area Packaging
8.    The HIV/AIDS Prevention Project will be active throughout the country. To improve the
management, evaluation and quality of program implementation, NGO's contracts will detail a mix of area
packaging and specific service packages. The number of area packages will be determined by MOHFW
based on the need to balance three considerations: (a) the need for manageability, for both Governnent and
NGOs; (b) the desirability of giving NGOs flexibility in determining where they work; and (c) the
desirability of promoting competition between NGOs.
- 56 -



9.    The specific criteria which MOHFW will take into consideration in deciding which geographical
locations will make up an area package in a given project year will be:
- presence of identifiable high risk behavior groups (target groups)
- present geographical coverage (with HIV/AIDS activities)
- NGO capacity (managerial and technical track record)
IIL Procedures and Criteria for the Selection of NGOs
10.   The NGO selection and procurement process shall follow general guidelines as developed under the
HPSP work program in line with HPSP PIP Annex 14.1 and Annex 8.5.5 and mentioned under BCC
support to STD/AIDS sub-component of output 7 and broad activities under output 5.
11.   The NGO selection process will be based on technical and financial proposals based on TOR
included in the Request for Proposal (RFPs).
12.   The LD ESP-GH will request the NGO Affairs Bureau (NGOAB) and the Department of Social
Welfare (DSW) to provide it with a long-list of NGOs that are active in the Health sector. A short-list of
NGOs will be prepared by sending a Letter of Invitation to express interest in participation in HIV/AIDS
Prevention Project to each of these NGOs. In order to ensure that NGOs expressing interest have the
capacity to operate at a scale large enough to take on an area package, the Letter of Invitation (attached at
Annex 1) specifies the selection or eligibility criteria. NGOs will also be invited to specify which of the
service packages they have an interest in providing, in which of the area packages. This invitation will also
be advertised in at least one national newspaper to keep the process totally transparent and give an
opportunity to all NGOs to apply.
13.   For each service and area package, MOHFW will determine which interested NGOs meet the
eligibility criteria, and will invite a maximum of six interested and eligible NGOs to submit proposals,
through a Letter of Request For Proposals (see Annex 2).
14.   Any NGO not on the long-list for the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project, but which believes that it is
qualified to be long-listed, may send a Letter of Expression of Interest for the short list to MOHFW.
15.   Since service quality is most important for the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project, in year one, NGOs
will be contracted by using the Quality-Based Selection (QBS) method. Based on experiences gained from
year one and the fact that activities in subsequent years will be carried out by a large number of small
NGOs, the second batch of NGOs may be selected using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
method. NGOs' proposals for a given area and community should demonstrate their capacity in the
following areas, which will be the criteria by which proposals will be evaluated:
- track record in the particular field of endeavor (e.g., HIV/AIDS) that is being addressed;
- history of 2-3 years work with the particular community being addressed;
- evidence that past performance by the NGO in HIV/AIDS and closely related areas has been
satisfactory from the perspective of the community (or beneficiaries);
- 57 -



- past record of working cooperatively with government and other NGOs;
- formal registration of NGO with the Department of Social Welfare (DSW) or NGO affairs Bureau
(NGOAB);
- adequate accounting procedures and fnancial record-keeping; and
- adequacy of human resource base and human resource development system.
16.   MOHFW will be responsible for reviewing the proposals submitted by interested NGOs, to verify
information given about the NGOs' capacity, and to obtain needed clarifications. Data given about NGO's
field presence and acceptability to the local communities will be verified in the field by GOB staff or
consultants. If it emerges that facts given by any NGO about its capacity are materially incorrect, the
Program Manager, HIV/AIDS, will make a recommendation to the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project NGO
Contract Evaluation Committee that the NGO be disqualified from participation in the program. In such a
case, a copy of the Program Manager, recommendations, and the reasons for it, will be sent to the
disqualified NGO at the same time as it is sent to the Evaluation Committee.
17.   In deciding which proposal will be accepted, the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project NGO Contract
Evaluation Committee will evaluate each NGO's overall capacity to provide the proposed service package
according to a scoring system given in Annex 4. After the evaluation, the Program Manager, HIV/AIDS,
will send the results of the evaluation and the proposed contract package to the MOHFW for clearance of
the contract award, subject to IDA approval.
18.   The composition of the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project NGO Contract Evaluation Commnittee is
given in Annex 5, along with the expected timeframe for key actions in the NGO contracting process.
- 58 -



Appendix to Annex 6
Annex 1
Enlistment form for NGOs Ex ressin2 Interest in Participation
in the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Proeram
Name of NGO:
Address:
Telephone:
Fax:
E-Mail:
Contact Person:
Total number of Thanas in which you are currently providing community health or related services:
Names of Thanas in which you have been providing
HIV/AIDS, community health or related services to at least 10% of the targeted high-risk
population for at least two years*
1.
2.
3.
*You are not required to provide more than 10 names for each type of service
- 59 -



Appendix to Annex 6
Annex 2
To:
Dear:
LETTER OF REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
Thank you for your Expression of Interest in being an implementing NGO in the HIV/AIDS
Prevention Project. We are pleased to inform you that your organization has been short-listed as an eligible
NGO to assist with this important project. The list of the NGOs short-listed for this assignment is
attached.
You are hereby invited to prepare a detailed proposal to implement HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
activities as a lead NGO in one or more of the groups of Thanas in the first round of contracting for the
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. The X area packages of Thanas for which proposals are requested are
attached. If you wish to propose for more than one package of Thanas, please prepare a separate proposal
in respect of each package.
The Description of the Services being contracted is set out in Appendix A and the Breakdown of
Contract Price is set out in Appendix E of the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project Standard Form of Contract
(Attached .... ). Please also note that the Description of Services at Appendix A also contains the
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project management framework including the roles and responsibilities of the
Government and the NGO partners.
NGOs are expected to provide the project's 'core' services (the items in Appendix A (i) of the
Standard Form of Contract) themselves in at least two thirds of the area of each contracted Thana.
This will benefit the program. Where the lead NGO proposes to associate partner NGOs, their
names, scale of operation and services to be delivered should be specified in the proposal on a Thana-wise
basis.
The Description of Services is fixed and the price of contracted services is also predetermined on a
unit cost basis determined by the size of the Thana, population, access etc. Therefore, your proposal
should focus on your organization's capacity in general, and its capacity to deliver the program services in
the proposed area in particular. There is no prescribed format for proposals, but in deciding how to
structure and focus the documentation of your organization's capacity, you will wish to bear in mind the
criteria, which the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project will use for NGO selection, and the scoring system by
which proposals will be evaluated. The five criteria are:
- Past record of implementing successful HIV/AIDS and closely related community health activities
- Past record of working cooperatively with government and other NGOs
- Adequacy of human resources and human resource development system
- Current scale of provision of HIV/AIDS, community health or closely related services in the
proposed area
-60 -



- Acceptability to the local community
Details of the scoring system used to evaluate proposals according to these criteria can be found in
Annex 4 of the document 'Procurement of NGO Services to Assist' in the Implementation of HIV/AIDS
Prevention Project, a copy of which is attache.
Please note that the evaluation of Proposals will be on a competitive basis. Contracts will be
awarded to the NGO with the highest scoring proposal for any given area package of Thanas. Full details
of the NGO selection process for HIV/AIDS Prevention Project can be found in the document '
'Procurement of NGO Services to Assist' in the implementation of HJV/AIDS Prevention Project. We
anticipate that proposals will be evaluated and contracts awarded on the time frame set out in Annex 5 of
the same document.
The deadline for the submission of the proposals to the ........... is . If you would like further
information on either the scope of services or the contracting procedures proposed under the HI-V/AIDS
Prevention Project, please contact at the following address:
Kindly confirm to us, within seven days of receipt of this letter, whether you intend to submit a
proposal. Failure to submit a confirmation may result in dropping your NGO from the short list.
Thank you
Sincerely yours
Attachments
Shot list of NGOs
Draft Contract Form
- 61 -



Appendix to Annex 6
Annex 3
Evaluation Criteria and Scoring System for NGO Proposals to Provide Core Services for
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
1.    Past Record of Implementing Successful HIV/AIDS and closely related community   30
health activities
2.     Past Record of Working Cooperatively with Government and Other NGOs             15
3.     Adequacy of Human Resources and Human Resources Development System             25
4.     Current Scale of Provision of BIV/AIDS, Community Health or closely related     15
services in the Proposed Area
5      Acceptability to the Local Community                                           15
TOTAL POSSIBLE SCORE: 100
- 62 -



Appendix to Annex 6
Annex 4
Composition of NGO Contract Evaluation Committee and
Time Frame for Contract Award Process
Membership of HIV/AIDS Prevention NGO Contract Award Committee
Additional Director General, Directorate of General Health Services (Chair-person)
Director, Line Directorate, ESP
Program Manager, HIV/AIDS
Deputy Program Manager, NGO
Deputy Chief Planning (Health), MOFHW
UNAIDS representative
Representatives, one each from IMED, Planning Commission, and NGO Affairs Bureau.
Timeframe for Contracting Process
- 63 -



Step                          Activity                        Time in Day
1. MOHFW requests long-list of NGOs from NAB and sends         1
advertisement to the newspaper
2. MOHFW prepares long-list and responds                       14
3. MOHFW sends out Letter of Invitation to express interest    5
4. NGOs respond with Expression of Interest (EOI)             21
5. MOHFW reviews EOIs, short-lists of qualified NGOs           14
6. DA reviews short-lists of qualified NGOs                    17
7. MOHFW requests proposals, NGOs submit proposals,           28
8. MOHFW reviews proposals, seeks clarifications and forwards  14
proposals to Evaluation Committee
9. valuation Committee scores and ranks proposals and          7
recommends contract awards
10. MOHFW clears contract award subject to IDA approval         3
11. Evaluation results sent to IDA for approval- no objection' from  2
IDA
12. Negotiation with highest ranked NGO and draft contract      10
cleared with IDA
13. Award and signature of contract                             7
TOTAL                               154
In the 28 days between the requestfor proposals and theirforwarding to the
evaluation committee, the MOHFW will organize field checks of NGOs' local
.resence and acceptability to local communities.
- 64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BANGLADESH: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
_  .7...j.,  ,   ,  T. .               -
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     4                            7
First Bank mission (identification)             12/01/99                    01/24/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     07/15/2000                  08/15/2000
Negotiations                                    10/16/2000                  10/30/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/01/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
Preparation assistance:
US$ 196,616.21 (BB)
US$ 62,072.07 (TF)
- 65 -



Bank staff who worked on the project included:
_ame                                     Sp0ili0y0
William B. Herbert                 Social Sector Team Leader
Frank Paulin                      Institutional Development Specialist
Anuschka Alvarez                  Operations Analyst
Rie Hiraoka                       Senior Social Development Specialist
Salim Habayeb                     Principle Public Health Specialist
J.S. Kang                         Senior Population Specialist
Shahnaz Kazi                      Senior Economist
Jose P. Correia da Silva          Senior Counsel
Nurul Alam                        Team Leader, Procurement, Disbursement, and Audit
Nevine Sultana                    Research Analyst
Suraiya Zannath                   Financial Management Specialist
Mohammad Sayeed                   Disbursement Officer
A. Mead Over                      Senior Health Economist
Nilufar Ahmad                     Senior Social Scientist
Anthony Measham                   Consultant
Pradeep Kakkar                    Consultant (NGO/BCC/IEC)
Aynur Kadihasanoglu               Consultant (Project Management and Implementation)
Mahesh Mahalingam                 Consultant (IEC)
Christine Ayash                   Consultant
Cheryl M. A. Powell               Program Assistant
Shahadat H. Chowdhury             Program Assistant
Maj-lis Voss                      Operations Analyst
Laura M. Kiang                    Operations Analyst
Virginia H. Jackson                Senior Operations Officer
Peer reviewers were Martha Ainsworth, Inamul Karim and Mike Merson. Also, the project underwent a
Quality Enhancement Review (QER) during preparation.
Geeta Sethi and Swarup Sarkar provided input from UNAIDS.
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BANGLADESH: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Strategic Implementation Plan. HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control. Health and Population Sector
Programme (HPSP), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, September 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Review of HIV/AIDS under the Framework of the Health and Population Sector Program.
Back-To-Office Report, August 1999.
* HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Project Concept Note, November 1999.
*   HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Project Concept Summary: Outline of objectives, strategy, and design,
February, 2000.
* HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Identification/Preparation Mission. Back-To-Office Report, February
2000.
* HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Project Idenification Document, March
* HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Social Data Sheet,
* HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Environmental Data Sheet,
?  HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Project Concept Document (PCD), March 2000.
* HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Synthesis of Comments on PCD Package, March 2000.
-  HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. PCD Review Minutes. March, 2000.
? HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Quality Enhancement Review, Panel Report, April 2000.
- HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Pre-Appraisal Mission. Back-To-Office Report, May 2000.
* HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Monitoring and Evaluation of the HPSP HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
and Identification of Candidates NGOs, July 25, 2000.
3 HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. NGO Contracting. September 2, 2000.
C. Other
Studies:
* Geeta Sethi: HIV/AIDS -- The Present Response. February 2000.
*   Swarup Sarkar: The strategic framework for HIV/AIDS prevention in Bangladesh, February 2000.
*   Mahesh Mahalingam: IEC and BCC Implementation Plan. HIV/AIDS Prevention Project: Bangladesh:
April 2000.
* Concern Bangladesh with READ: Social Assessment of HIV/AIDS in Bangladesh. May 2000.
* Concern Bangladesh with READ: Social Assessment of HIV/AIDS in Bangladesh: For Hill Tract
Region. June 2000.
* Government of Bangladesh: Report on the Sero-Surveillance and Behavioral Surveillance on STD and
AIDS in Bangladesh, 1998-99, Dhaka: AIDS and STD Control Programme, Directorate General of
Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, June 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 67 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BANGLADESH: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Mitlions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P058468       2000 Bangladesh                Agricultural Serv. Innovabon & Reform             0.00       5.00       0.00      3.68       0.54       0.00
P009484       1996 Bangladesh                Agriculture Research Management                   0.00      50.00       1.37      12.51     16.76       0.00
P057833       2001 Bangladesh                Air Quality Management Project                     0.00      4.71       0.00      4.71       0.00       0.00
P050745       1999 Bangladesh                Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply                    0.00     32.40       0.00     29.96      15.70       0.00
P009496       1995 Bangladesh                Bangladesh Integrated Nutriton                    0.00      59.80       0.58     23.97      18.83       0.00
P009549       1996 Bangladesh                Coastal Embankment Rehabilitaoron                 0.00      69.50       0.00      7.37       -3.47      6.67
P009524       1999 Bangladesh                Dhaka Urban Transport                             0.00     177.00       0.00    153.92      29.71       0.00
P009482       1997 Bangladesh                Dhaka Water & Sanitabon IV                         0.00     80.30       0.26     47.24      42.65       0.00
P049790       1999 Bangladesh                Export Diversification                            0.00      32.00       0.00     25.59       5.74       0.00
P009555       1993 Bangladesh                Female Serondary School                           0.00      68.00       0.00      9.07       8.71       8.72
P044811       2000 Bangladesh                Financial Institubons Development                  0.00     46.90       0.00     39.27      11.69       0.00
P009470       1992 Bangladesh                Forest Resources Management                       0.00      49.60       3.29      8.38      10.59      -0.69
P009468       2000 Bangladesh                Fourth Fisheries                                   0.00     28.00       0.00     25.71       8.52       0.00
P037857       1998 Bangladesh                Health and Population Program                      0.00    250.00       0.00     141.42      -0.22      0.00
P041887       1999 Bangladesh                Municipal Services                                0.00     138.60       0.00    128.32     132.59       0.00
P050751       2000 Bangladesh                Nabonal Nutriton Program                          0.00      92.00       0.00     88.25       0.00       0.00
P009560       1996 Bangladesh                Non-Fornal Education                              0.00      10.50       0.00      3.35       1.54       0.00
P040985       1997 Bangladesh                Poverty Allviabon (Microedit I)                   0.00     105.00       0.00       1.85      8.01       0.00
P009550       1998 Bangladesh                Primary Educaton Development                      0.00     150.00       0.00     128.57     42.08       0.00
P044789       1998 Bangladesh                Private Sector Infrastructure Dev                 0.00    235.00        0.00    215.95     154.95       0.00
P009545       1996 Bangladesh                River Bank Protecton                              0.00     166.90       0.87      19.01      -0.22     16.96
P009465       1994 Bangladesh                Second Road Rehabiltation & Maintenance           0.00     226.80       0.00     24.08      -55.10      0.00
P009518       1997 Bangladesh                Second Rural Roads & Markets Improvement          0.00     153.00       0.00     39.61       -9.01     12.32
P040713       1998 Bangladesh                Silk Development Pilot Project                    0.00      11.35       0.00      9.31       5.55       0.00
P037294       1999 Bangladesh                Third Road Rehabilitaton & Maintenance             0.00    273.00       0.00     234.88     53.54       0.00
Total:       0.00    2515.36         6.37     1425.98    499.68     43.98
- 68 -



BANGLADESH
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
20-Sep-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                DBH                            0.00    0.65     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.65      0.00    0.00
1991                Dynamic Textile                 1.86    0.00    0.00     1.48     1.86    0.00     0.00    1.48
1998                Grameen Phone                  16.67    1.58    0.00     0.00    10.00    1.58     0.00    0.00
1985/95             IDLC                           0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1980/98             IPDC                           10.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Khulna                        20.81     0.00     0.00    0.00   20.81     0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                Scancem                        10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        59.34    2.23     0.00     1.48   42.67    2.23      0.00    1.48
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Appoval         Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000               Haripur                        40000.00      0.00      0.00  14100.00
2000               Jalalabad II                   30000.00  10000.00      0.00  30000.00
1998               Khulna                             0.00      0.00   3300.00      0.00
2000               Lafarge B Loan                     0.00      0.00      0.00  15000.00
1998               Lafarge Surma                  35000.00      0.00  10000.00      0.00
2000               ULC - Bangladesh                5000.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
2000               USPCL                              0.00   4000.00   3000.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     110000.00  14000.00  16300.00  59100.00
-69 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BANGLADESH: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
POVERTY end SOCIAL                                              South      Low-
Bangladesh       Asia  income        Development diamond'
1 999
Population, mid-year (mIX/ons)                        127.6    1t329       24117                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas mothod, USS)                      370       440       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       47.0       581       988
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Population (IJ)                                         1.6        1.9       1.9
Labor force (%)                                         2.1        2.3       2.3     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Mott recent estimate (test year avaIlable, 1993-99)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povert line)     36
Urban population (1 of total population)                 21        28        31
Life expectancy at brth (years)                          61        62        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 57        75        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               68        51        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% ofpopulation)         84        77        64
Illiteracy (16 of populatIon age 15+)                    47        46        39
Gross primary enrollment (1 ofschool-age population)     96       100        96                    Bangladesh
Male                                                   93       110       102                   Low.incomegroup
Female                                                100        90        86
KEY ECONOMtIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
0 19790    1989     19SJ      1999     '
Eonomic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            15.6     27.0       44,1      45.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 14.9     17.2       21 6      22.2
Exports of goods and servcealGOP               4.5      5.7       13.3      13.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                     5,9      9.6       16.7      16.7
Gross national savings/GDP                    t0.5     13.1       20.9      20.9
Current account balance/GDP                   *1.8     -5.1       -t12      -1.9     Dmt
Interest payments/GDP                          0-3      0.5        0.4       0 4     Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                21.1     41,1       37.1      37.2     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                    26.6     21.3       10.2      10.4
Present value of debtlGDP                        .                22.9
Present value of debtVexports  ;                          ..    150.7
Indebtedness
19799  1989-99       1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  4.4       4.8      5.2        4.8       5.1                   Bangladesh
GNP per capita                        2.0      3.2      3.6        3.4       3.-   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        6.1      14.2     12,4        6.0       4.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                   36.7     26.0       19.1      19.6
Industry                                      20.7     20.4       24.8      24.3    1o
Manufacturing                               14.5      13.1      15.6      14.9      5_
Services                                      42.6     53.6       56.1      56.2     o          -
Private consumption                           92.2     86.2       78.6      78.7            94   55   96   97   go   99
General government consumption                 1.9      4.1        4.7       4.6                    GDI    -'GDP
Imports of goods and services                 13.5     13.3       18.3      18.7
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.7      1.6        1.6       3.3    so
Industry                                       4.1      7.3        8.3       4.9     4
Manufacturing                                2.8       7.2       8.5       3.2
Services                                       5.4      5.0        5.2       5.3    20
Private consumption                            4.6      3.0        1.3       2.2     o
General government consumption                 4.9      5.6       13.2      -0.2            9    95   96   97   as   go
Gross domestic investment                      2.2      8.4       12.1       9.8    20
Imports of goods and services                  4.6     10.0       -0.3       5.0                  5xports     i mports
Gross national product                         4.6      4.9        5.2       5.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 70 -



Banzladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
({ change)
Consumer prices                                ..     8.4       7.0      7.2      e
Implicit GDP deflator                       10.9      7.7       5.3      4.7
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                                ..     9.5       9.3      9.7             94   95   go   97   98    9
Current budget balance                        ..       ..       2.1      1.1            -     GDP deflator   - CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -5.3       4.1      -4.8
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   1,286      5,172    5,523    10,0o-
Jute goods                                  ..       97       108       72
Leather and leather products                ..    137         190      275      7.500
Manufactures                                ..    871       4,531    3,515      5 000
Total imports (ci)                            ..   3,390      7,525    8,381
Food                                        ..    555         373      915      2,500
Fuel and energy                             ..    285         506      515
Capital goods                               ..   1,070      1,342    1,295             o 
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..     62        109      107
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..     93        101       99                3 Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      67        108      108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Currant account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               724    1,603      5,879    6,251     o
Imports of goods and services              1,675    3,716     8,049    8,824        *     **
Resource balance                           -951   -2,113    -2,170   -2,573
Net income                                   -22    -108       -100     -109     2
Net current transfers                       696      835      1,750    1.806
Current account balance                    -278   -1,386       -520     -875
Financing items (net)                       425    1,452       651       994
Changes in net reserves                     -147     -66       -131     -118     .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    1,739    1,772
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)            15.2    33.2       45.4     48.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3,282   11,118    16,376   16,994
IBRD                                       55       62        36        33                     G:250
IDA                                       770    3,441      6,163    6,428               F:369       A: 33
Total debt service                          237      522        683      728
IBRD                                        5        6         6         7        E: 5,097                  -  6:e,428
IDA                                         6       35       105       119
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           495      772       657       810
Official creditors                        533      975       359       248
Private creditors                           9       -25       -23      -10
Foreign direct investment                   0        0       308       279                                 c: 290
Portfolio equity                            0        0         3        10                D: 4,527
World Bank program
Commitments                               202      417       646       595     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             163      299       347       441     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Pdvate
Principal repayments                        0       13        66        78     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  163     286       281       363
Interest payments                          10       28        45        49
Net transfers                             152      258       236       314
Development Economics                                                                                             8125/00
- 71 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24206R1
A ,                        ix kBANGLADESH
jThakurgoon              ' ,                                                            --DISTRICr BOUNDARIES
)   NILPHAMARI %    *_2   /                                          *  -  DIVISION BOUNDARIES
tHgURGJiONdphmar                         7                                 -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DINAJPUR
OR,gpurt   Kri
\   Dinoiper   ORAHGPPtR    KMILES  0                                               25         50          75
Geibend                                           I      I              I      I
0l rn  g                       KILOMETERS  0       25     50      75    100
GAIVBANHA
r             JOYUPURHATJ                    SERPUR
C   NAOGAON       0 Joypurhot                                    N oSN             Sunrngonnj 0
..JR A  J S H  A  H                      emolNR ON4                                    Stl IMP             ;' She
Neogoon o          0 Bogro     JAMAJPUR
/ NOW GANJ                          BOGRA                            OMymensingh                  SYLHET n
kowabWnj                           \               ~~~~~~~~~~~MYMENSINGH
RAJSHAHI                     Serojgon1 0H               A      K    A OKirgan1    I iAJII ;,      oMaul        J
RAJSHANabNre            SERAAGANRE                                KISHORGAJ         o r
O Nolore                  1ANGANJL                                 . Habigoni
G,  OTongoil    G I' R
&Gf7sR.      PA NA                        GAZIPUR                         .        r  
INDIA                        0PAbno                              OGoeipur NARSINGO    RARIA
KtwtSHT                      Mahnik   DHAKA                            n  Brio          I N DIA
HE~RPUR                               NI(*D 
'7MeerpurR1r                                      NRV       .
;ADUADANGA   Jhanoidoh              0
JESSORE NARAAH
M            MM                                      LUXm FUR IFt cakiI                hograohhon 
0AJHIA:GRUNA
HANDPUR~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~egml
ix-<-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MDRP                                    Chan'pu                    i'-  1
by~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Oca  thM ap eri OS-ri
eo min atone s   sa  any                                                                                       .U  111B'andor a         ;
bNG,-                                               BA8,Y OF BENGA L.                                       /  
Ofes o a ',     .                                                              '           iA              8
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lxk Fy r                                       7i
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY 988h



