Report No. PID9032
Project Name                     Bangladesh-HPSP HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Targeted Health
Project ID                       BDPE69933
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH & FAMILY WELFARE
Directorate General of Health Services
Mohakhali, Dhaka-1212
Contact Person: Dr. A. M. Zakir Hussain,
Director, Primary Health Care,
and Line Director, Essential Services Package (ESP)
Tel: 880-2-8811741
Fax: 880-2-9886415
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 17, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 28, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
HIV/AIDS is one of several challenges Bangladesh faces. Although the
country has made remarkable progress in some key indicators, health,
nutrition and population remain one of the country's critical development
issues. The main causes of disease and death continue to be malnutrition
and poverty-related infections, such as diarrhoeal diseases, acute
respiratory infections (ARI), and tuberculosis (TB). Bangladesh accounts
for the highest levels of malnutrition and the fourth largest
concentration of TB cases in the world. The major cause of death in
under-five children is due to ARI. Health indicators are further
exacerbated by the low level of education, poor sanitation, marked gender
disparities, and inadequate health care services. The high levels of
morbidity and mortality, coupled with rapid population growth, and a
nascent HIV/AIDS epidemic, place high demands on the health care system.
The delivery of services, however, is impaired by low investments,
inefficient use of existing resources, as well as weak institutional and
management capacity. This results in the duplication of service delivery;
poor quality of care and lack of client-oriented service delivery;
underutilization of many public health facilities; lack of a referral
system; and inadequate cooperation between and regulation of the public,
private-for-profit and NGO sectors. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) is
addressing many of these issues, including HIV/AIDS, through the Health
and Population Sector Program (HPSP). This constitutes sectoral reform to
ensure that services are sustainable and can be delivered in a
cost-effective and client-focused manner. It involves reorganization,
improved sector management, and decentralization. Priority in allocation
of public sector resources is given to the essential services package
(ESP) that benefits vulnerable groups, especially women and children. In
addition, through the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP) and



the National Nutrition Program (NNP), GOB seeks to enhance community
mobilization and community-based nutrition services delivered with the
assistance of NGOs, in association with national-level initiatives and
capacity development for its management.
2. Objectives
Bangladesh has a narrow window of opportunity to prevent a widespread
HIV/AIDS epidemic. Preventing a large-scale outbreak of the epidemic,
however, will only be possible if vigorous action is taken immediately.The
objective of the proposed project would be to assist the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) to prevent the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
infection from gaining foothold within high risk groups and to prevent its
spread from high risk groups into the general population. It would form
an integral part of the Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP), and
would seek to complement and facilitate HIV/AIDS prevention activities
underway within HPSP, as well as supplement work carried out by
non-governmental organizations (NGOs). It would do so by (a) scaling-up,
in the shortest possible time, successful NGO programs which target groups
at high risk of contracting and spreading the disease; and (b)
strengthening GOB capacity to respond effectively to HIV and AIDS in a
small number of priority areas.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA has undertaken a key role in developing and coordinating HPSP, and
therefore is well-situated to assist in developing the strategic links and
critical consistency with other health investments in Bangladesh,
including those financed by IDA.IDA is the largest investor in HIV/AIDS
prevention and control projects globally, with substantial cross-country
experience that would help Bangladesh in applying the latest technical
know-how for HIV/AIDS prevention and control. IDA investments in other
sectors in Bangladesh, such as in education, would contribute to
strengthening the necessary cross-sectoral linkages of the HIV/AIDS
response.
4. Description
The project would have two main components:1. Expansion of Programs among
High Risk GroupsThis component would support rapid and systemic expansion
of programs for the highest risk groups by employing proven intervention
packages. It would include behavioral change communications, promoting
condom use, sexually transmitted disease (STD) treatment, empowerment, and
creation of an enabling environment.Government would contract NGOs to
carry out much of the work with high risk groups, building on the
experience of the last five years. Arrangements for NGO contracting,
efficient flow-of-funds, and provision of technical assistance to smaller
or less experienced NGOs would be critical to the success of this effort.
Umbrella NGOs would provide technical support and training for smaller and
less experienced NGOs. A division of labor among NGOs that mirrors their
comparative advantages to deal with different high risk groups might be
employed.Interventions would be targeted within the highest priority risk
groups, which include injecting drug users (IDUs), commercial sex workers
(CSWs), CSW clients, men who have sex with men (MSM), migrant workers,
truckers, and port workers. Other priority groups would be identified
based on results of sexual behavior surveys, and could include police and
military, university students, garment workers, street children, and urban
youth.2. Strengthening of HIV/AIDS Response CapacityThis component would
- 2-



consist of four sets of activities:a. Advocacy, policy refinement and
civil rights protection, to create an enabling environment for HIV/AIDS
prevention work. This would include such activities as a legal review of
legislation and policies relevant to the prevention of HIV, study tours
for policy makers, opinion leaders and program managers, conferences,
seminars and workshops. The objective of this subcomponent would be to
build commitment to HIV prevention among key decisionmakers, and to ensure
an understanding of the response.b. Public information programs to raise
awareness about HIV among the general population, and targeted information
programs as one element of the behavioral change efforts with high risk
groups. These programs would help demystify and create greater acceptance
of condom use, disseminate information, including the surveillance data,
and create understanding and support for GOB and NGO intervention
programs.c. Surveillance, monitoring and evaluation, and operational
research. Activities here would strengthen GOB capacity; support regular
behavioral and sentinel surveillance of risk groups, include a baseline
survey of sexual practices in the general population; and support
implementation and evaluation of pilot HIV prevention efforts among
different populations. d. Care and support for HIV/AIDS patients. A small
amount of funding would be allocated to explore methods of provision of
cost-effective care and drugs for opportunistic infections. Also, the
project would support research and training, and the development of a
program strategy as the epidemic evolves.
1. Expansion of Programs for High Risk Groups
2. Strengthening of HIV/AIDS Response Capacity
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government 0
IBRD
IDA 40
Total Project Cost 40
6. Implementation
The proposed project would be implemented as an integral part of HPSP,
through Government entities, NGOs and the private sector. It would
therefore only require a refinement and/or extension of implementation
arrangements as set forth in HPSP documents. All of these arrangements
would be developed in consultation with GOB, NGOs and development
partners.Project Coordination and Oversight: The Line Directorate for the
Essential Serviced Package (ESP), located in the Directorate General of
Health Services of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), has
overall responsibility for the STD/AIDS Program. Important policy and
technical considerations, including the involvement of relevant sectors,
are addressed by responsible Government agencies (primarily the National
AIDS Committee, Technical and Coordination Committees at various levels)
and in collaboration with international donors (IDA, HPSP Donor
Consortium, UNAIDS, UNDP) and NGOs. These activities build on the
National AIDS Policy and the draft Strategic Plan for the National AIDS
Program of Bangladesh.The STD/AIDS Program Unit, under the Director,
Primary Health Care and Disease Control (Line Director ESP), is the
implementing body for the STD/AIDS Program and divides areas of
responsibility among Service Delivery, NGO Support, and Surveillance
deputy program managers. In coordination with other responsible
Government agencies within and outside of MOHFW, such as the Behavior
-3 -



Change Communication (BCC) Unit, the Procurement Unit, the STD/AIDS
Program Unit would be in charge of planning, day-to-day coordination of
the project, and for monitoring and evaluating interventions. The MOHFW
is planning to increase the STD/AIDS Program Unit's staffing level. WHO
will strengthen the unit for the first two years with three long term
experts. The project would strengthen the Unit's institutional capacity in
key technical areas, such as procurement and NGO commissioning, project
cycle management, organizational audit, monitoring and evaluation,
financial management, clinical case management and communication strategy
development.Government would partner with existing NGOs and
community-based organizations (CBOs) for delivery of interventions to
groups at high risk and some awareness raising activities for the general
public, building on the experience of the last five years. During project
preparation, the development of NGO selection and procurement arrangements
that will ensure efficient flow of funds and provision of technical
assistance to small and less experienced NGOs would be critical. Umbrella
NGOs would provide technical support, training, and monitor the work of
smaller NGOs. A division of labor within NGOs that mirrors comparative
advantages to deal with different high risk groups might be employed.
While activity-based monitoring would to an extent be delegated to
umbrella NGOs, monitoring and evaluation, performance and organizational
audit remain the responsibility of the STD/AIDS Program Unit. This would
ensure that financial accountability rests with the MOHFW as purchaser,
while the managerial and, to a lesser extent, professional accountability
is delegated to the NGO sector.Procurement: Procurement arrangements
under HPSP would apply directly to this project. Existing procurement
capacity, systems and procedures of the executing agency would be assessed
and suitable changes, if any, agreed by appraisal.Financial Management:
Financial management arrangements under HPSP would apply directly to this
project.  Issues to be addressed during project preparation include (a)
developing management arrangements that improve flow of project funds from
Line Director to Program Director (b) ensuring the rapid flow of funds to
NGOs; (c) assessing the financial capacity to manage project finances,
improve financial accountability and controls, and to meet LACI
requirements; and (d) audit arrangements for the project to ensure timely
submission of audit certificates.
7. Sustainability
Issues related to technical, managerial and financial sustainability would
be identified, and project preparation would seek to develop risk
reduction strategies. The linkage of the proposed operation to HPSP
provides a framework for the sustainability of the STD/AIDS Program.
Indeed, once activities to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS as promoted
through the proposed operation are well on track, it would be possible to
secure the phasing-out of the project, while further embedding and
integrating its activities in a sustainable HIV/AIDS prevention program
under HPSP.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The design of this project would utilize up to date scientific information
on HIV/AIDS, lessons of experience from HIV/AIDS control programs
implemented worldwide, and would capitalize on key lessons learned by
other development partners working in Bangladesh to prevent the spread of
HIV. Key lessons from global experience are: (a) early aggressive
prevention is the most effective strategy because of the high speed of HIV
- 4 -



transmission; (b) targeted interventions within poor and marginalized
groups at high risk of becoming infected is the most effective way to
reduce transmission at the early stages of an epidemic; (c) targeted
interventions need to be coupled with broader-based advocacy and awareness
to prevent discrimination that would prevent behavior change; (d)
identifying and reaching risk behavior groups remains difficult; and (e)
advocacy and coordination among various sectors, including the private
sector, need to be developed. Key lessons from experience in the region
are: (a) effective program management requires high-quality, up-to-date
epidemiological and management information, which can be acquired by
strengthening surveillance and financial management systems; and (b) the
need to provide low-cost, community-based AIDS care while prioritizing
preventive activities. Finally, lessons from Bangladesh are: (a)
providing information on safe behavior alone is not sufficient to bring
about behavioral change. Interventions for promoting safe behavior should
not only aim at providing information, but also at removing constraints
that prevent people from choosing safe behavior and practices; (b) AIDS is
a development issue: social factors such as violence, migration,
marginalization, trafficking and discrimination affect HIV/AIDS
prevention; and (c) existing NGO efforts in reproductive health work have
paved the way for STD and HIV/AIDS work by establishing communication
channels and developing strong relationships with local people.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
William B. Herbert
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 5, 2000.
- 5 -



