Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3441 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(HIV/AIDS Prevention Project) 
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 26, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3441 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  December 26, 2000, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH  
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom), acting through the Department for Inter- 
national Development (DFID) a grant (the DFID Grant) in an amount of ·6,250,000 to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the DFID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
United Kingdom;
(C)
the United Kingdom and the Association intend to enter into an agreement 
(the Co-Financiers’ Memorandum Of Understanding) making arrangements for the coor- 
dination and administration of the financing provided severally by each co-financier, 
and regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection with such 
financing; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment 
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Plan" means the program of the Borrower in respect to the 
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project for the Fiscal Years of 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 which 
has been, and shall be, as the case may be, formulated within the framework of the 
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project, and which shall be reflected in an operational plan as 
part of HPSP, satisfactory to the Association, setting forth, inter alia, the 
activities to be carried out, the policy reforms and other measures to be implemented, 
the expenditures to be taken and the financing to be provided under such program in 
and for such HIV/AIDS Prevention Project during each such Fiscal Year;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories 1 through 3 set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"FY" and "Fiscal Year" mean the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on 
July 1 and ending on June 30 of the following year;
(e)
"HPSP" means the Health and Population Program Project of the Borrower;
(f)
"MOHFW" means the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Borrower;
(g)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(i)
"TK" means Taka, the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 30,800,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
Page  3
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2011 and ending December 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
Page  4
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, medical and public health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
Report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information  concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine  such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
March 31, 2002 or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
(B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) 
describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The DFID Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by March 
31, 2001, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the  right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant shall have 
Page  6
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the DFID Grant Agreement.
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by 
the ailure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary, 
Senior Assistant Chief, Assistant Secretary or Assistant Chief, of the Economic 
Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
880-2811-8611
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
202 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
By /s/ Nancy Zhao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
     2,180,000
100% of foreign 
expenditure, 100% 
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 70%
of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
(2)
NGOs, IEC Activities, 25,490,000
100%
Consultants’ Services
and Training
(3)
Incremental Salaries      50,000
100% in FY01 and FY02,
and Operating Costs
FY02, 60% in FY03 and
FY04, and 40% thereafter
(4)
Unallocated
     3,080,000
TOTAL
30,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
 the term "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication and refers 
to all activities (including mass media and interpersonal communication) which seek to 
increase the awareness and understanding about HIV/AIDS; and
(d)
the term "incremental salaries and operating costs" means the cost of 
additional personnel engaged exclusively for purposes of the Project, and the cost of 
operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment procured for purposes of the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ contracts not exceeding 
the equivalent of $100,000, in case of firms, and $50,000, in the case of individuals; 
(c) training and IEC activities; and (d) incremental salaries and operating costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Taka a special deposit account in a 
Page  8
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Page  9
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to Taka 216,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to Taka 135,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,250,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account, and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of Taka 400,000,000.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to prevent the Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection from gaining a larger foothold within high risk 
groups and to limit its spread into the general population, without stigmatizing the 
high risk groups. The Project forms an integral part of HPSP. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
High Risk Group Interventions
1.
Delivery of HIV intervention programs among Commercial Sex Workers (CSW), their 
clients (including rickshaw pullers, truckers, students, small businessmen, police, 
sailors and dockers), Men Having Sex With Men (MSM) and Injecting Drug Users (IDUs).
Part B:
Communications and Advocacy
1.
Advocacy for STD/AIDS Program to policy makers, journalists, religious leaders 
and other members of the social leadership.
2.
Delivery of awareness campaigns on HIV/AIDS transmission and prevention to the 
general public.
Part C:
Blood Safety
Expansion of safe-blood initiatives.
Part D:
Project Support and Institutional Strengthening
1.
Project Management and Capacity Building, including strengthening National 
STD/AIDS Program Management and Capacity Building, implementing a NGO Contract 
Management System, and providing Training on Interventions among High Risk Groups.
2.
Monitoring, evaluation and Operational Research, including strengthening of 
Sero- and Behavioral Surveillance, Monitoring and Evaluation of STD/AIDS Program at 
large and of the Project, and Operational Research.
* ***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  11
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(i)
standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be 
used;
(ii)
invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least 
one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper and bidding documents 
shall be 
made available to prospective bidders, at least 28 days 
prior to 
the deadline for the submission of bids;
(iii)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage 
premium or 
discount over the estimated cost;
(iv)
bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or 
in person, 
to all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders;
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications 
were not 
carried out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and 
if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm determined 
to be 
the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without any let or hindrance;
(vii)
bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in  person or by 
courier service or by mail;
(viii)all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated  in the bidding 
documents.  A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific 
bid;
(ix)
bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably 
immediately, but no later than one hour, after the deadline 
for 
submission of bids;
(x)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence 
to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed with the Association;
(xi)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a 
comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of 
the Association;
(xii)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall  not be carried 
out.  When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which: (A) if collusion is determined, 
the 
parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall 
then be 
made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and 
Page  12
(B) if 
no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids 
shall 
be invited 
after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association;
(xiii)contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidders within 
the initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not 
necessary.  Extension of bid validity may be sought only under 
exceptional circumstances;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed 
without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request 
for 
extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (B) for all 
subsequent requests for extensions irrespective of the 
period;
(xv)
negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any 
other bidders;
(xvi)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the 
Association’s 
prior concurrence; and
(xvii)all contractors or suppliers shall provide 
performance security 
as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under 
which it was furnished.
3.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the first year of the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  13
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection of NGOs
NGOs services under Part A of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures previously agreed with the Association.
2.
Procurement through UNAIDS
Contracts for consultant services up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured through UNAIDS in accordance with procedures 
previously agreed with the Association.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, terms of 
reference for all contracts shall be furnished to the Association for prior review and 
approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall timely implement an Action Plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of the Project, such plan to include, inter alia, 
Page  14
measures for the improvement of financial management and procurement capacity of the 
Borrower.
2.
The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out the Project in 
accordance with standards and guidelines of the Borrower’s National Policy on HIV/AIDS 
and STDs.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out Project activities which 
involve medical waste, in accordance with environmental norms and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
commencing in 2002, by April 1 of each year or such other date as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree, until completion of the Project, carry out an 
annual review of the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project;
(b)
one month prior to such review furnish to the Association: (i) an Annual 
Plan for the following fiscal year, for approval by the Association; (ii) a report on 
the Project monitoring indicators, indicating progress achieved and suggesting 
remedial actions, where needed; and (iii) a review of NGO participation in the Project 
and the coordination between the Borrower and such NGOs; and
(c)
by October 1, 2001 prepare and furnish to the Association, for its 
approval, a Strategic Implementation Plan, such Plan to include full details of 
remaining Project activities and a complete procurement plan for the carrying out of 
such activities.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 30, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
