                                                                                             86776
                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                              International Development Association
                                 International Finance Corporation
                            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                          CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                      EDS2000-424
                                                                                  December 11, 2000
                                                                                       05:02:54 PM


Statement by ABDUL AZIZ Mohd. Yaacob
Date of Meeting: December 12, 2000

                 Bangladesh: Country Assistance Strategy and Proposed Credit to Bangladesh
                                     for HIV/AIDS Prevention Project


       We welcome the discussion on the Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh and the
Proposed Credit to Bangladesh for HIV/AIDS Prevention Project.

        We noted from the CAS report that Bangladesh with its sound economic policies have
made progress in improving opportunities for the poor during the past decade with economic
growth averaging 5 per cent per annum. Real per capita income grew by about 3 percent per
annum and other indicators of economic and social wellbeing have improved. Though growth is
respectable, poverty still remains high especially in rural areas. The Government of Bangladesh
has shown considerable courage and commitment in tackling its socio-economic problems with
the implementation of the current Fifth Five Year Plan. However, we believe that much remains
to be done, especially in strengthening institutional weaknesses and enhancing policy and
structural reforms, in order to make a substantial impact on poverty.

        It is heartening to note that the Government through the Poverty Reduction Partnership
Agreement with the ADB is serious in pursuing a consistent and integrated poverty reduction
strategy with the articulation of a pro-poor strategy focusing on private sector-led growth and
promoting integrated rural development as well as improving social and human development
services. But further progress is needed, and certain obstacles to poverty reduction policies could
have been stressed even more.

       In this regard, we appreciate the CAS' candid discussion of good governance and anti-
corruption measures. Strengthening governance and eliminating corruption is critical to
Bangladesh’s economic, social and political development. Good governance is fundamental to
mobilizing private sector confidence and a major determinant of poverty reduction.
Bangladesh's ability to sustain the momentum of economic growth depends on creating a much
more transparent, accountable governing system.
         In our opinion, the CAS overarching objective of poverty reduction through human
resource development, rural development and supporting private investment along with efforts at
institutional capacity building, governance and macroeconomic stability are very appropriate. It
is very important for Bangladesh at this very juncture to continue to receive all the necessary
support and assistance from the Bank to help the country realize its aspiration of reducing
poverty substantially within one generation. Bangladesh is at a critical stage and the Bank should
not be found wanting.

        We can support the proposed CAS scenarios for Bangladesh. The Bank’s policy of not
upgrading its lending scenario until the government has begun to accelerate the pace of reforms
and that progress is made on macroeconomic performance, structural reform in key sectors and
portfolio performance is appropriate. However, we hope that Bangladesh would be able to
quickly graduate to a base case scenario if there are noticeable progress made on all fronts
following the 2001 elections. We are glad that IFC and MIGA have also made various
contributions in strengthening domestic firms and facilitating foreign investment, although in our
opinion, they can play a much more significant role. Concerning risks, we note Bangladesh faces
a variety of risks which in our view should be monitored closely and mitigated by the Bank as
well as the government as far as possible. However, we believe that these risks are still
manageable and the outcome arising from the Bank’s assistance would benefit significantly the
people of Bangladesh.

        In conclusion, we would also like to support the Proposed Credit to Bangladesh for
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Clearly, HIV/AIDS is a priority and we believe that effective
implementation of the HIV/AIDS prevention project is of key importance to preserving any
progress in health indicators which would have a positive impact on poverty alleviation. In this
regard, we are pleased to note that there is tremendous commitment from all concern to prevent
the spread of the disease.

      We wish the Government of Bangladesh every success in their efforts to address and
overcome future challenges in the implementation of its policies and programs.
