                                                                                               86775
                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                              International Development Association
                                 International Finance Corporation
                            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                           CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                      EDS2000-419
                                                                                  December 11, 2000
                                                                                       01:00:52 PM


Statement by Pieter Stek
Date of Meeting: December 12, 2000

                  Bangladesh: Country Assistance Strategy and HIV/AIDS Prevention Project


The joint Bank/IFC Bangladesh CAS is a thorough document addressing the major issues related
to the development of Bangladesh in a structured manner. Issues like the reform process,
governance and corruption have been dealt with very explicitly. It is a good example of a joint
CAS in so far as it establishes a clear link between policy measures and opportunities for IFC
and MIGA. I also appreciate the consultative process with both civil society and donors in
preparing this CAS.

The analysis of the causes of poverty and the description of the country context clearly identifies
the constraints and challenges for the country and its government. The framework for linking
performance to support in the CAS establishes clearly what the Bank is willing to do in the given
circumstances. Even though the triggers in Table 6 may need to be clarified a little further, the
Government of Bangladesh can be in little doubt as to what needs to be done. It is quite obvious
from the poor quality of the Bank's portfolio that extensive lending does not make sense unless
the Government establishes a record of reform.

I also agree with the strategic priorities presented in the CAS, putting institutional strengthening
and governance first, with human development (including gender), rural development (the
environment) and private sector-led growth following suit. It is discomforting that the
Government does not appear to have its priorities right (annex 10) especially with regard to
social protection and key issues in economic policy and private sector development. Clearly,
improving public resource management, addressing corruption, improving delivery of public
services and establishing a better framework for private sector development are major
challenges. With regard to the latter, I am somewhat surprised that the paper does not really
discuss the Haripur power project, which we recently approved. Was Bangladesh ready for this
project?
Bangladesh has a large group of active donors, of which the Netherlands is one. The CAS rightly
notes that donor co-ordination is essential to make aid more effective and to limit the
proliferation of project-management units, which is a heavy burden on the Government
(paragraph 53). The need to move away from traditional project financing to more
comprehensive sector programmes and programme financing was discussed during the
Bangladesh Development Forum meeting in Paris, last April, and in a more informal meeting of
donors with Government last November. It appears that, though in some cases reluctantly,
Government of Bangladesh also recognises the value of Sector Wide Approaches, notably in the
social sectors and decided to extend the successful experiences with the Health and Population
Sector Programme (HPSP) to the education sector. We fully agree with the statement in
paragraph 50 in this regard. Could staff give us some insight into their thinking about broadening
the sector wide approach even further in the social sectors and beyond?

Effective implementation of the HIV/AIDS prevention project, which we are also discussing
today is of key importance to preserving any progress in health indicators. Political commitment
to prevent a major epidemic appears to be relatively high at present, even though pressures from
strong social and political groups could test this commitment. But even if there is political will,
severe constraints to institutional capacity as well as the absence of essential legislation (e.g. for
mandatory blood testing) put the effectiveness of the project at risk. In view of this, it is
important that the project makes use of the existing framework for donor support under the
HPSP and that capacity building is a major component. However, given that the first year of the
project will be used to work out more detailed implementation arrangements it could have been
useful to develop the project as an Adjustable Program Loan. Under the APL framework there
would have been a formal review of the adequacy of Government actions and the institutional
framework for taking the implementation forward. Clearly, HIV/AIDS is a priority - which
makes it even more important to ensure that money to deal with it is well spent.

Only recently has the Government given up its reservations to the PRSP process, which it
considered a donor driven invention for which there was no need; Bangladesh already had its
own poverty alleviation strategy. It is important that the Government has begun work on a PRSP,
with the aim of finalising it before a new government is ready to formulate its development
strategy. It is equally important that donors and international financial institutions support the
PRSP process in a manner that is conducive to ownership – in particular in view of the initial
reluctance on the side of Bangladesh. A substantial body of poverty analysis has already
emerged from the preparations for the Bangladesh/ADB Partnership Agreement on Poverty
Reduction, signed last April, which makes available up to USD 500 million a year for poverty
reduction. In this context, I would be interested in hearing what kind of "joint assistance" the
Bank expects to offer in collaboration with the ADB, IMF and other donors to support the PRSP
(paragraph 55).

As I said above, I support the view that pressure on the Government of Bangladesh for better
performance has to be kept up. The Bank's choice for what is basically the low case scenario
with a possibility to step up to a base case scenario if performance permits is basically sound. In
this regard, it is important that the Bank co-ordinates its decisions to move from one scenario to
another as well as any changes to the lending program with other donors (see also table 5, page
19). Decisions as to proceed or not to proceed with a project in e.g. the water sector have
significant implications for the effectiveness of donor-financed projects in the same sector.
Similarly, refining the triggers for moving between scenarios should be a participatory process,
including discussion in the Local Consultative Group. Though the Bank participates in this co-
ordination group, the Bank sometimes faces other players with faits accomplis. According to my
colleagues in Dhaka, this is especially evident at the sector level. I wonder to what extent the
divergence between positive experiences at the general level of donor co-ordination and less
happy events in specific sectors is related to the fact that sector specialists are still largely based
in Washington. Last summer, the senior staff member for education was transferred from Dhaka
and all decision power was given back to Washington – this did not help. In the health sector
something similar happened, but a somewhat better solution was found.

                                                 ***

You will have noticed that the balance between comments on the substance of the CAS and the
way in which the Bank does business with the other donors at working level is skewed towards
the latter. This is because I believe that the CAS has its analysis and strategic priorities right.
Implementing it with the co-operation with other donors and partnership of the Government of
Bangladesh is the challenge– I hope all parties are ready to face this challenge and I trust the
Bank Group team is.
