                                                                                              86777
                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                              International Development Association
                                 International Finance Corporation
                            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                          CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                       EDS2000-426
                                                                                   December 11, 2000
                                                                                        05:54:13 PM


Statement by Neil Hyden
Date of Meeting: December 12, 2000

                  Bangladesh - Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and HIV/AIDS Prevention
                                                   Project


The Bangladesh CAS provides a frank analysis and sensible policy recommendations. I agree
with the focus of the CAS on supporting governance and institutional reform. These issues,
which have been dealt with explicitly, are critical if Bangladesh's ambitious development goals
are to be reached. I also support the priority given to working closely with the community
sector in Bangladesh to support rural development, education and health activities.

Although overall economic performance in Bangladesh during the 1990s has been reasonable,
the CAS makes a clear case that institutional weakness and governance issues are holding
Bangladesh back. This reiterates the finding of OED's useful country assistance review (CAR)
in 1998 that disappointing progress in Bangladesh is due to deeply entrenched governance issues
that will require a strong and sustained political commitment, from all sides, to effect change.
This is particularly disappointing given that the development benefits that can flow from reform
have been clearly demonstrated over the past few years in other countries in South Asia. I
consequently support the priority given to engaging the Government and other stakeholders
through analysis and dialogue to strengthen policies, institutions and governance.

The triggers for Bangladesh moving from a low case to a base case lending program are set at a
level designed to allow the Bank to be responsive should a political consensus on the need for
reform emerge following elections due in 2001. While I support the need to be able to respond
flexibly to support serious reform efforts, it does not make sense to increase lending significantly
beyond the low case scenario without a commitment to reform and some sort of track record.
Given this, it might be better to consider the base case scenario as providing a range of possible
lending levels, linked to the degree of reform, rather than as a set figure.
In addition, while the triggers clearly address the key challenges confronting Bangladesh, further
clarification of the performance standards expected could be useful. On this, I agree with the
remarks made by Mr Stek that refining the triggers should be a participatory process.

One area that could particularly be refined further is the standard expected in improving public
procurement and financial management. The fact that 24 contracts were declared as mis-
procurement in FY 2000 alone is very worrying and indicates clearly that considerable
supervisory discipline will continue to be needed. Procurement issues have also affected
companies from countries in this constituency. Bureaucratic delays and non-payment for work
done have been sources of considerable frustration and caused financial loss. Not only does this
hurt Bangladesh's reputation, it makes it difficult to convince companies able to supply goods
and services effectively to continue bidding for such contracts.

More weight could also be given to reform of the banking sector. The degree to which protected
and favoured industries rely on directed lending from nationalised commercial banks (NCBs) is a
particular concern. The increase in non-performing loans among NCBs contrasts sharply with
the improvements that private commercial banks have made in their portfolios and with the
impressive repayment records achieved by micro-finance institutions.

In contrast to the state sector, the success of community approaches to development, in areas
such as micro-finance and rural electrification, has been a feature of the development story in
Bangladesh. In this regard, Bangladesh has provided models for the world. The CAS builds on
recommendations set out in the CAR to continue increasing support for community based
initiatives in the health and education sectors and to move away from Government-led
infrastructure projects. This should help to improve the quality of activities.

The HIV/AIDS Prevention Project

The HIV/AIDS prevention project carries through the commitment to scale-up support for
successful community-based activities. It deserves support. While HIV is still at a relatively
early stage in Bangladesh, clear danger signs are emerging. Gender issues and HIV are clearly
closely related. Bangladesh has done well in reducing gender discrimination and increasing girls
enrolment in primary school. Further gains in this area will need to be part of an integrated
strategy to provide opportunities to marginalised groups at risk of HIV infection.

The health sector in Bangladesh is at the leading edge among efforts around the world to
introduce sector-wide approaches with harmonised donor procedures and, in some cases, pooled
resources. Although clearly not appropriate in all cases, such program approaches can work in
specific country and sectoral situations. Within the health sector, the high level of access to safe
water is one area where Bangladesh stands out compared with other countries in similar
economic circumstances. I welcome the commitment in the CAS to support efforts to strengthen
arsenic removal capacities at the community level, provide alternative sources of water and
improve health facilities for people affected. But this program has not been as successful as
hoped and a renewed effort is required if the impressive achievements in providing clean water
are to be sustained.
