Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19995-HR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR
COURT AND BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
June 13, 2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of June 13, 2001)
Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna
Kuna 1 = US$0.12
US$1 = Kuna 8.58
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS        -     Country Assistance Strategy
CMDP       -     Capital Market Development Project
CNB        -     Croatian National Bank
EFSAL      -     Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FMS        -     Financial Management System
IBRD       -     Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IT               Information Technology
LIL        -     Leaming and Innovation Loan
MOF        -     Ministry of Finance
MOJ        -     Ministry of Justice, State Administration and Local Administration
PIP        -     Project Implementation Plan
PIU/MOF  -       Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Finance
PMU/MOJ -        Project Management Unit in the Ministry of Justice
PSD        -     Private Sector Development
SFRY       -     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TALI/2    -      First/Second Technical Assistance Project
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development
ZAP        -     Central Payment Institute
Vice President        Johannes Linn
Country Director      Andrew Vorkink
Sector Director       Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader           Lubomira Beardsley



Republic of Croatia
Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................1
1. Project development objective ..................................................................1
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................l
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................1
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........1
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................8
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................                                              10
1. Project components .................................................................                                           10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................... 1 1
3. Benefits and target population .......................                           .......................................... 11
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ............ ............................................... 12
D. Project Rationale .................................................................                                                        13
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .....................                            ........................ 1 3
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ............................                             ....................... l 5
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................. 15
E. Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                                 15
1. Economic .........                                                                                                             15
2. Financial .........                                                                                                             15
3. Technical .........                                                                                                             15
4. Institutional.16................. 16
5. Social .........                                                                                                                16
6. Environmental assessment ............................ 16
7. Participatory approach ............................ 16
F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                       16
1. Sustainability .........                                                                                                       16
2. Critical Risks ......... 17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ......................                                                                          18



ii
G. Main Loan Conditions .........................                                 18
1. Effectiveness Conditions .........................                      18
2. Other ......................... 18
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                         18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                        18
Annexes
Annex 1  Project Design Summary
Annex 2  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4  Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5  Financial Summary
Annex 6  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al  Summary of Major Procurement Activities and Procurement Methods
Table B   Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table C   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table D   Procurement Schedule
Table E   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8  Documents in Project File
Annex 9  Status of Bank Group Operations in Croatia
Annex 10 Country at a Glance
Map



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPE
Date: June 13, 2001                            Team Leader: Lubomira Beardsley
Country Director: Andrew Vorkink               Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Project ID: PE-65466                           Sector: Poverty Reduction and Public Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan       [ ] Credit      [] Grant       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$5.0
Proposed terms:   [ ] To be defined      [ ] Multicurrency     [X] Single currency
[ ] Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed    [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            5
Years to maturity:              15
Commitment fee:                 0.75%
Service charge:                n/a
Front-end fee on Bank loan:      1.0%
Financing plan: (US$5m)     E ]
Source                           Local           Foreign           Total
Government/USAID                             0.50             1.50             2.00
IBRD                                         0.93             4.07             5.00
Total:                                       1.43             5.57             7.00
Borrower: Republic of Croatia
Responsible agency: Ministry of Justice, State Administration and Local Administration (MOJ)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY                 2001         2002         2003        2004         2005
Annual      0.075        2.000        2.000       0.500        0.425
Cumulative     0.075         2.075        4.075       4.575       5.000
Project implementation period: three and a half years
Expected effectiveness date: September 2001         Expected closing date: July 31, 2005
Implementing agency: Ministry of Justice, State Administration and Local Administration
Contact person: Ranko Marijan, Deputy Minister
Address: R. Austrije 14, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Tel: 385/1/3710-610/611        Fax: 385/1/3710-612           E-mail: Rmaian   ravosudje.hr






A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1)
1.     The objective of the Project is to assist the Government of Croatia in advancing orderly insolvency
proceedings while modernizing selected commnercial courts and increasing professionalism and competence of
judges, other staff of the commercial courts and bankruptcy trustees. This Project is a pilot for broader judicial
reform efforts. The long term objective to be achieved, on the basis of experience gained through the
proposed Project, is the establishment of a legal and institutional framework which can effectively protect
private property, enforce contracts, defend economic rights against infringement, establish a secure
environment for private investment and efficient exit mechanisms for business.
2.     The proposed project represents a partnership between the Government, USAID, and the Bank, and
will therefore also offer the benefits of donor coordination. The Bank's proposed LIL will be co-financed in
parallel by USAID technical assistance funding. This partnership arrangement represents an evolution of the
LIL itself, which in an earlier incarnation was intended to fund more technical assistance for court and case
management and for upgrading of bankruptcy professionals, areas that would now to be funded by the
USAID TA. At the urging of the Government, the Bank is now proposing to utilize the freed up loan
resources within the LIL envelope to scale up its support for automation of several pilot courts.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
3.     The degree to which these objectives are achieved will be measured mainly by the following
indicators: (i) increased capacity of the High Commercial Court in Zagreb and the Commercial Courts in
Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osjek and Varazdin (the pilot courts) to decide commercial cases, oversee trustees and
proceed with bankruptcy cases; (ii) an improved regulatory framework for trustees; and (iii) increased
professionalism, competence and integrity of commercial court judges and trustees.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19280 HR                     Date of latest CAS discussion: May 11, 1999
4.     The project is fully consistent with the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The main objective
of the CAS is to create the conditions for sustainable growth. The strategy for sustainable growth consists of:
(i) reducing the size and increasing the efficiency of the public sector; (ii) improving governance; (iii)
reducing corruption; (iv) creating conditions for a competitive business environment; and (v) containing
poverty. As the CAS indicates, the lack of working exit mechanisms and of an effective contract enforcement
system are recognized as major problems at the root of a crisis in the real sector, with a breakdown of
payment discipline by enterprises and the spread of a culture of nonpayment throughout the country. Effective
bankruptcy proceedings need to be put in place, so that insolvent or illiquid enterprises can be liquidated, or
restructured within a reasonable period of time. The exit of enterprises by accelerating bankruptcies and
enforcement of claims should lead to a redistribution of assets and eventually to more effective asset
utilization. A credible threat of bankruptcy will also contribute to alleviating a situation where the payment
discipline of enterprises has largely broken down and inter-enterprise arrears have built up at an alarming rate.
5.     The Project intends to address directly the inadequate capacity of the commercial courts to adjudicate
bankruptcy and other commercial disputes, as well as other deficiencies of the bankruptcy system. By
providing effective exit mechanisms for insolvent and illiquid enterprises and banks the Project will
significantly contribute to the development of a competitive business environment. By improving commercial
court performance and creating an adequate legal and institutional environment for bankruptcy proceedings,
the Project will improve govemance and increase the efficiency of the public sector. Court and bankruptcy
system performance will be improved by introducing transparent working procedures and by increasing the



2
accountability of judges and other bankruptcy professionals. This will reduce corruption in the court system
and provide essential checks on other institutions.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
6.       In 1998, a consensus emerged in Croatia on the need to reforrn the legal and judicial sector and by
early 1999 the Govemment approached the Bank with a request for assistance to that effect. The Government
suggested that the reform program be carried out in a sequenced manner and that the most pressing issues be
addressed first, mainly, the efficiency of the commercial courts and, in particular, their capacity to handle
bankruptcies. Using this approach the Government intended to achieve two objectives: improvement of the
judiciary and creation of effective exit conditions for bankrupt enterprises and banks.
7.      The Government proposed to focus on the courts of the five major counties, Zagreb, Split, Rijeka,
Osjek and Varazdin. This is because: (i) the level of economic activity and associated demand for bankruptcy
and judicial services in these regions are high enough to ensure the validity of the results of the proposed
learning and innovation activities; (ii) the differences in the economic structure among selected regions as
well as the differences in court structure will allow broad findings that are representative; and (iii) piloting
innovative court administration and case management techniques in these regions will help create a critical
mass of professionals who will be able to assist later in replicating such techniques in other parts of the
Croatian judicial system. The Government thus recommended that the Bank support this first phase with a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL).
8.     The Government envisages follow-up reform efforts in the judicial area focusing on: (i) replicating
the new court administration and case management techniques in the rest of the commercial court system;
(ii) proceeding to the reform of the courts of general jurisdiction; (iii) building capacity for more effective
human resource management in the judicial sector, including continuous education and assessment of judges;
(iv) strengthening altemative dispute resolution mechanisms; (v) increasing access to legal information;
(vi) improving legal drafting processes; (vii) improving the quality of legal education in the areas relevant to
the market economy; and (viii) increasing the quality of legal services. The reforrns will be carried out with
the support of donors, such as the EU, USAID and the Bank.
Challenges for the Judiciary
9.      The commercial courts faced their first large challenge in 1992 after the new Company Law triggered
an avalanche of filings for registration of legal entities. The unprepared court system failed to meet market
needs and showed its systemic weaknesses. The already weakened system has been further swamped by a
wave of cases associated with Croatia's separation from Yugoslavia. The congestion grew more with an
increasing number of disputes revolving around the clarification and protection of property ownership,
commercial disputes and bankruptcy cases.
10.    In 1998, at the peak of the judicial crisis, the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) analyzed the sector issues and
proposed a package of measures aimed at improving court performance. The MOJ proposals have been
adopted by the Parliament and became the country's strategy for judicial reformn.' The proposed measures
included: hiring additional judges, increasing their salaries, improving their working conditions and tightening
their work discipline, intensifying supervision of courtg, and computerizing the courtg and the land register.2
As a result, the situation in the Croatian judiciary improved, although many underlying causes of the crisis
1 1998 MOJ Report on the Current Situation and Problems in the Croatian Judiciary.
2 In 1994 the Judicial Council started recruiting new judges for all positions and reevaluating sitting judges; as a result a good number
of positions remained vacant for several years. In 1998, for instance, 40% of positions in the municipal courts were still vacant. The
Government raised salaries of judges in early 1999-after most positions were filled. By then, however, many of the best judges had
left for the private sector due to insufficient remuneration. Currently, the President of the High Corimmercial Court's monthly salary is
about US$2900 while the average salary in Croatia is about US$400. Although judges' salaries do not reach the income of the best
private lawyers, they are now high enough to attract top legal professionals.



3
such as corruption and political interference, insufficient ftnancing, obsolete court and case management
practices, and absence of training and continuing education policies for judges and court personnel-have not
been directly addressed. After the 2000 elections, in the new political climate, the new Government has
increased efforts to address the above issues and is moving ahead with more radical reform in cooperation
with the donors.
11.    In 1998 the number of pending cases in Croatian courts reached one million of which 90% were in
the commercial courts, with 55% of those in the courts of Zagreb, Split and Rijeka? Adjudication of about
70% of the commercial cases lasted longer than one year. The users of judicial services complained about the
lack of access to legal services, unfairness of the courts, unpredictability of court decisions and proceedings.
The users' confidence in the judicial system rapidly eroded. Although in 1999' there was a certain reduction in
the case backlog and the length of proceedings, the crisis situation remains. Court statistics indicate a
considerable change in the structure of commercial cases in 1999. While at the peak of the 1998 judicial crisis
the case backlog consisted predominantly of company registrations, in 1999 and presently the commercial
courts are facing an increasing number of more conventional commercial cases such as contract disputes and
bankruptcies. Traditional bankruptcies and other commercial cases are by nature much more complex and
labor-intensive than company registrations. Therefore, unless their productivity is drastically improved, the
commercial courts will face a bigger crisis than in 1998. This prediction is shared by the practicing judges
who attribute the recent positive trends in the performance of commercial courts to the increase in the number
of judges and the judges working unsustainably long hours during that period. The consensus among the
judges, shared by the Bank project team, is that sustainable improvements in the productivity of commercial
courts can be achieved only if a more effective court administration and case management model is
introduced.
Legal Framework
12.    The Bankruptcy Law of April 1996 (amended in 1999 and 2000), which was developed along the
lines of the German Bankruptcy Law, is the key law for bankruptcy proceedings. It provides general rules for
bankruptcy of enterprises as well as banks. It is complemented by the Banking Law (amended in 1998) which
regulates restructuring proceedings initiated and conducted by the Croatian National Bank (CNB) prior to
bankruptcy proceedings in the courts. The general Bankruptcy Law applies to all debtors except
municipalities. The proceedings may commence upon illiquidity and insolvency. The bankruptcies are
conducted exclusively by the commercial courts and can be initiated by debtor and creditor (petitioners). The
bankruptcies of the banks are initiated by the National Bank. The new Bankruptcy Law is more flexible than
the law of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) and introduces, in particular, court-
supervised restructuring of enterprises. It is however, fairly sophisticated and uses commercial concepts and
procedures unfamiliar to most of judiciary.4 The law also requires for its application professionals with
special skills, such as trustees, who did not exist in Croatia before.
13.    The vast majority of judges, legal practitioners, trustees and other stakeholders, i.e., entrepreneurs,
banks and business associations believe that the bankruptcy law sets forth adequately the rights and
obligations of participants both gubstantively and procedurally, and ig not t he bottleneck in proceeding with
bankruptcy cases. All parties agree that, rather than attempting to perfect the law the Project should focus on
strengthening the capacity for processing bankruptcies in the existing legal framework. This could be
achieved through a rapid accumulation of practical experience and by studying cases from other countries
with a similar legal and institutional culture such as Germany and Austria. In addition, the judicial review of
bankruptcy cases could be strengthened by using precedents, written commentaries, a set of general
interpretation rules, etc. For this reason the Project will not attempt directly to improve the existing legal
3 These data, however, have to be treated with caution since official court statistic often does not reflect real situation in courts.
4The former legislation was fairly inflexible and only foresaw the possibility of voluntary or court-led liquidation of an enterprise, as
opposed to court supervised restructuring and protection from the creditors. That law was often used as a labor shedding mechanism
by companies which could not start labor redundancies due to highly protective labor laws.



4
framework for bankruptcy. Resources, however, will be made available for studies of the subject on an as
needed basis.
Implementation Practices
14.    The fact that at present the bankruptcy mechanism is not meeting its objectives is illustrated by a still
very low number of bankruptcy proceedings, and the fact that no rehabilitation of enterprises is yet
happening. The constraints restricting the use of the exit mechanisms are of two kinds: (i) those which are
related to the deficiencies of the bankruptcy institutional infrastructure; and (ii) those which restrain the
debtors and creditors to use the bankruptcy mechanism.5
15.    Constraints of the first group are mainly: court infrastructure and management which do not provide
for a fast track for bankruptcy cases; an inadequate regulatory framework for trustees and administrators; and
skills and knowledge of otherwise highly professional judges, trustees and administrators that are not
adequate for handling bankruptcy proceedings.
16.    Constraints of the second group are found at different levels. First, government officials, managers of
public enterprises, owners and managers of private enterprises, and the public at large lack knowledge about
and experience with bankruptcy. Second, there is a general lack of confidence in the efficiency of the
judiciary system. Third, until recently a common attitude in Croatia was to avoid as much as possible
triggering the liquidation/bankruptcy of an enterprise in order to prevent the loss of jobs.6 Fourth, the majority
of non-bank/unsecured creditors which are familiar with the Bankruptcy Law and the situation of their
debtors, often know that all their debtors' remaining assets of any value are mortgaged and that the
bankruptcy process is unlikely to yield any cash for unsecured creditor.' In other cases, the remaining assets
of failed enterprises have limited market value in Croatia's currently depressed economy and thus proceeds of
their sale are expected not to cover any of the claims of second and third rank creditors. Fifth, although the
Company Law provides that companies' managing boards are liable for not having filed in a timely manner
for the bankruptcy of their illiquid or insolvent company, the number of managers of failed Croatian
companies that have actually been indicted is close to zero.
17.     To date, no rehabilitn,ion of bankrupt enterprises or banks has been completed, and only a couple of
enterprise rehabilitations have been initiated. Judges emphasize that the majority of cases do not meet
conditions for reorganization, that most enterprises are very small and in very bad shape by the time a
bankruptcy petition is filed, and that bankrupt companies' assets are meager (valuable real estate already
burdened by bank mortgages and obsolete technology of lirmited or no market value). They also point out,
however, that trustees do not have strong incentives to propose restructuring as it is more difficult than
liquidation. Also, banks and the State, which are the major creditors, tend to recover their property the fastest
and are not interested in initiating lengthy restructuring proceedings.
18.    The situation has, however, begun to change by the second quarter of 2000, with the change of the
Government. The new Government is extremely concerned with the build up of enterprise arrears, the
5 The ratios between the number of bankruptcy proceedings and the numbers of both registered enterprises (180,000) and banks (60)
are extremely low in comparison not only to developed market economies, but also to the transitional economies with functioning
bankruptcy systems. The number of bankruptcies completed from 1997 (when the Bankruptcy Law came into force) to April 1999 is
992. This number also includes bankruptcies adjudicated according to the Bankruptcy Law of SFRY. Gyro accounts of 27,000
enterprises are currently blocked by the central payment clearing system ZAP and up to 17,000 companies are considered as
technically fulfilling the conditions of bankruptcy.
6 For example, local government authorities could pressure local creditors of distressed enterprises not to file for bankruptcy. The
State as tax creditor often does not press its claims on a delinquent enterprise in order not to create problems and ultimately trigger the
closure of that enterprise. The ad hoc law on the financial restructuring of 14 selected enterprises (e.g., shipyards, steel plant) of
1995-although restricted to those enterprises-created a negative precedent in that respect and raised wrong expectations for the
future.
7A large amount of the claims of the State and State-owned entities were converted in equity or partly written off, many non State
creditors received shares owned by the State in other enterprises in exchange of their claims on the 14 distressed enterprises.



5
artificial extension of life of nonviable enterprise and the growing illiquidity in the enterprise sector. The
Government's has clearly expressed its intention to strongly support enforcement of payment discipline and
triggering of bankruptcy. As a first step, over the last six months, the Government has striven to reduce
drastically the State arrears to enterprises, to inject liquidity in the system and prevent enterprises from using
the excuse of Government arrears in order not to pay their own overdue debts. The Ministry of Finance does
not hesitate any more to threaten - and if needed to file for bankruptcy - of many companies which have built
up significant tax arrears. Second, the Croatian Privatization Fund, controlling stakes in about 1800 partially
privatized state owned enterprises, has just filed for the bankruptcy of about 320 of those companies. The
bankruptcy of one major partially State-owned shipping line, Croatia-Line is at last underway with its assets
put for sale. Finally, with respect to the 14 selected enterprises covered by the 1995 restructuring law, three
were put into bankruptcy and the Government is slated to decide on the future of six more by the first quarter
of 2001 when a new diagnosis is available. Several court presidents indicated that they expect the inflow of
new bankruptcy cases to increase by at least 25% in 2001.
Bankruptcy Institutions
19.    The key bankruptcy institutions are the commercial courts, and trustees and administrators.'
Commercial Courts
20.    Organization and Jurisdiction and Performance. The Constitution lays out the basic principles for
the functioning and organization of the judiciary. The organizational structure of the judiciary is set forth in
the Law on Courts (1993, amended in 2000). The judicial branch is comprised of a single system of general
and special jurisdiction courts that functions at three levels: trial, ordinary appeal, and extraordinary appeal.
Courts of general jurisdiction include 100 municipal courts and 14 district courts. The special court system
comprises commercial courts and administrative courts. The commercial court system consists of nine first-
instance commercial courts, in Bjelovar, Karlovac, Osjek, Slavonski Brod, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin, Dubrovnik
and Zagreb, and one second-instance High Commercial Court, located in Zagreb.9 Commercial courts deal
with disputes resulting from the application of corporate, commercial, banking and business law. The first-
instance commercial courts hear all cases and the High Commercial Court reviews all appeals from the first-
instance courts. The Supreme Court functions as an extraordinary appeals court for all commercial cases.'°
21.     Commercial activities and thus commercial disputes are concentrated primarily in three counties:
Zagreb, Split and Rijeka. The Zagreb Commercial Court has the highest number of judges (60), the largest
inflow of cases (50%) and the lowest percentage of solved cases with around 50% of the case backlog of all
commercial courts. This concentration allows for a relatively quick and focused intervention, which can
nonetheless have a broad impact on the whole judiciary. Because about 40 percent of the commercial courts'
decisions are appealed, the project intervention can be successful only if the Highest Commercial Court is
also included. Focusing on the larger courts alone, however, may produce results which may not be fully
applicable to the small ones. This is why any supported intervention should also cover a few relatively
smaller courts.
8 Trustees are professionals in charge of managing bankruptcies of enterprises while administrators deal with banks.
9 In the Law on Courts (1993) the Govemment envisioned to create a commercial court in each county. According to it in Croatia
there should be 13 first instance commercial courts in the following cities: Bjelovar, Dubrovanik, Karlovac, Osjek, Pazin, Rijeka,
Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Split, Sibenik, Varazdin, Zadar and Zagreb. So far due to a lack of financing only the commercial court in
Dubrovnik actually commenced work.
'1 The commercial courts deal with disputes involving contracts, business insurance disputes, and matters related to trade companies
or other commercial entities. Their jurisdiction extends to disputes involving commercial transportation companies (but not personal
transportation) as well as copyrights and patents in industrial and intellectual property. They are responsible for maintaining a current
register of the status of all companies, and they handle all bankruptcy cases. Only Commercial courts in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and
Osjek have jurisdiction in maritime disputes ( including disputes in continental waters), disputes related to aircraft and ships, and
industry property disputes (disputes regarding patents, trade-marks, and intellectual property).



6
22.    Any pilot intervention should therefore have two primary goals: reduction of case backlog and
improvement of court performance. The efficiency of the commercial courts is very much dependent on the
competence and professionalism of judges and court personnel. The MOJ is responsible for assuring that
judges and court personnel have the skills and knowledge needed to provide service of satisfactory quality.
Due to insufficient budget and a lack of dedicated training programs, the commercial judges, including judges
adjudicating bankruptcies, have not been specifically trained and consequently do not have the knowledge and
skills to meet market needs."
23.    It would be necessary in the medium to long run to bring the rest of the courts (four commercial
courts and about 120 courts of general jurisdiction and administrative courts) to the same level in providing
services. This can only be achieved through a legal and judicial reform of a bigger scale, which should be
developed on the basis of the experience gained from a pilot intervention for selected commercial courts.
24.    Bankruptcy Proceedings. The Bankruptcy Law requires that bankruptcy cases be handled by a
bankruptcy panel comprised of three judges. One of the panel members-a bankruptcy judge-is authorized
to take decisions on all matters except those which this Law explicitly reserves for the panel. While the
bankruptcy judge supervises the trustees and the creditor's committee, the panel decides on the questions
which determine the course of the case process. The panel also decides on all complaints about the
bankruptcy judge's actions. Whether or not it is exclusively bankruptcy judges who handle bankruptcy cases
is at the discretion of the court president. Even the judges specializing in bankruptcy have received little
special training or guidance to help them better understand the new legal concepts.
25.    Although the law requires bankruptcy cases to be handled on the "emergency" track, the case backlog
and the excessive time needed to proceed with bankruptcies are evidence of noncompliance with such legal
provisions.'2 The case backlog, lengthy proceedings, and unpredictable decisions are the most frequent
complaints from the users of judicial services. These problems are rooted in the deficiencies of court
administration and case management related, in particular, to the novelty of the bankruptcy concepts and
regulations and the ineffectiveness of the legal information system.
26.    The fact that the Bankruptcy Law does not foresee every contingency would not be a major problem
for a legal profession with a history of precedents and access to information on past decisions. However in the
current Croatian context, consistent and accurate interpretation of the bankruptcy regulations is complicated
by too much discretion given to the insufficiently experienced professionals. Referring to national precedents
and international best practice would help compensate for the lack of experience, but there is no ready access
to such information. There is therefore a strong need to pilot the development of a modernized legal
information system in commercial courts.
27.    There are factors constraining effectiveness of the courts to proceed with bankruptcies which lie
outside the court system itself. They include: (i) a lack of understanding by creditors of their rights and
obligations, leading to their passivity; (ii) problems with the establishment and verification of property rights;
(iii) complicated access to legal information; (iv) the inadequate skills of trustees; and (v) inability of the
trustees to raise sufficient funds to cover the costs of the court proceedings.
28.    To improve adjudication of bankruptcies, all aspects of commercial courts' performance will need to
be improved. To meet this need, a court administration and case management model for the commercial court
has been developed under a PHRD grant. The model provides practical solutions for the issues related to the
"The MOJ budget allocates approximately USS66 per year per judge for training.
12 At the beginning of 1998 the backlog of bankruptcy cases from the previous year was 804 (632 out of 804 cases were in the
commercial courts of Zagreb, Split and Rijeka). The inflow of bankruptcy cases during 1998 was 527 and bankruptcy judges cleared
603 cases. At the beginning of 1999, 728 bankruptcy cases remained, and during the first quarter of 1999 the number of unresolved
cases reached 768. New bankruptcy cases are expected be of greater complexity, and will absorb a significant portion of the court's
already overextended capacity. The average time for deposition of commercial court cases, including bankruptcies, differs. In Split and
Rijeka, for instance, the average time for deposition is about 20 and 30 months, respectively, in Zagreb more than 50 months.



7
day-to-day operations of the commercial courts as well as mechanisms for eliminating the case backlog
accumulated over the previous years.
29.    Court administration. Court administration authority is centralized in the MOJ and regulated by its
Regulation of Court and Case Management (1997). The MOJ regulates the establishment, authority,
jurisdiction, composition, and organization of courts; drafts judicial procedures; organizes the education and
professional development of judges; and secures financial means and facilities and supervises their financial
operations. The court president is responsible for day-to-day court management. In reality, s/he does not have
a great impact on the most substantial decisions. The presidents of the commercial courts claim that their
budget proposals are not usually taken into account by the MOJ. They do not know the year's budget in
advance, which prevents them from planning appropriately. The presidents and judges were also not
consulted when regulations governing working procedures and performance standards were established. Not
only is a president's authority insufficient but managerial instruments for policy and decision-making are
inadequate. For instance, the court system and the presidents lack timely and accurate management
information (records, statistical data). Still, the time that a court president spends struggling with petty issues
significantly impedes his/her ability to exercise judicial leadership. Moreover, within the judicial branch, no
mechanism exists whereby an individual court's needs are transmitted to the MOJ, consolidated and ranked.
Such an organizational vacuum inadvertently places the courts in the position of having to compete against
each other for the Minister's attention.
30.    Judges generally believe that they spend most of their time fulfilling judicial duties. They complain
about a range of problems: cumbersome case management processes and practices, the almost complete lack
of technology (little computing equipment or electric/memory typewriters, with all documents produced by
hand or on a simple typewriter), weak access to relevant legal information, artificial performance standards, a
poor monitoring and evaluation system, inadequate training opportunities to increase and strengthen their
skills and knowledge, and lack of specialization. Severely outdated practices (an obsolete system for
recording and tracking case information, a complicated and elaborate system for classifying cases, use of
forms and documents of irregular dimension, etc.) and no supporting technology, combined with the pressure
of an increasingly litigious economic environment, have made the elimination of the backlog and
improvement of court performance impossible without prompt case management reengineering.
31.    The 1994-2000 studies carried out by local and international consultants as well as observations of
the Bank team indicate that some simple actions, such as introduction of the system of random assignment of
cases, conversion into a uniform case document system and establishment of standard dimensions for all court
forms and documents, could also improve court performrance.'3 The modernization of the court
technology-in the broadest sense--is expected to result in more significant gains in the commercial courts'
productivity, particularly through improvements in such areas as: (i) access to justice and legal information;
(ii) registering petitions and monitoring the case load/status; (iii) word processing and communication; (iv)
financial management and accounting; and (v) automated personnel management system.
Trustees and Administrators
32.    Under the Bankruptcy Law trustees are given key functions and powers in relation to the debtor and
debtor's assets. Since 2000, trustees are expected to posses a university degree, but do not have to be lawyers.
In 1996 when the first cohort of trustees-with a tenure, as decided then, to be reviewed every four
years-was named, the trustees were not required to have any special education or training and consequently,
the selection process did not include any test obliging candidates to demonstrate their knowledge and practical
understanding of insolvency, legal accounting, business issues or other legislation relevant to their work. In
fact, the selection process appears to have been rather random. As a result, most trustees on the first courts'
13 The Croatian Judicial System (1994), Markus Zimmer; The Judiciary of Croatia (1997), ABA-CEELI; The Situation in the Croatian
Justice System (1998), Ministry of Justice; The Proposal for Development and Implementation of the Court and Case Management
Model (2000).



8
lists (each commercial court maintains its own list and, until recently, 682 trustees were on the lists) lacked
the knowledge and skills to discharge their functions, and, for this reason, only about ten percent of them
were used regularly by the courts. At the beginning of 1999, an amendment to the Bankruptcy Law, in
response to the extremely weak capacity of trustees, introduced a licensing system and toughened the
qualification criteria for trustees for the future."4 In 2000, the Government started the process of licensing new
trustees (the process should be completed by the end of this year, and so far 90 trustees have been granted
licenses). As of today, however, trustees work basically in a regulatory vacuum. Improving the regulatory
framework for trustees and administrators may attract better qualified professionals to this occupation.
33.    Trustee oversight is the responsibility of the courts and the creditors. Under current circumstances-
where most creditors are not aware of their rights and do not intervene in the process, and courts struggle with
their own deficiencies-there is a great need for a strong regulatory body and regulatory system for trustees.
This system should regulate: (i) professional (including ethical) standards; (ii) selection procedures;
(iii) performance monitoring and appraisal; (iv) pay; and (v) disciplining and disqualification.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices
34.    The Project assumes that the bankruptcy framework comprises three equally important components:
(i) the legal framework; (ii) the institutional infrastructure; and (iii) the incentives for the debtors and the
creditors to use the bankruptcy mechanism. Although an examination of the bankruptcy framework reveals
that there are problems in Croatia in all three areas, the Project will focus primarily on the institutional
infrastructure and will not target directly the legal framework for two reasons: first, the Government and the
users have a strong ownership of the current legal framework; and , second, there is to date not enough
practical experience with its implementation to assess its possible deficiencies with some degree of certainty.
Therefore instead of conducting an initial study on the quality of the bankruptcy legal framework, an
Advisory Council has been created for the Project to monitor closely implementation processes and practices
and initiate the legislative changes as the need for them is identified. Sufficient resources have also been
allocated to undertake studies in this area on an as need basis.
35.    The Project will focuis on the institutional constraints which prevent effective operation of the
bankruptcy system. Since among those constraints, the deficiencies of the commercial courts are the most
critical, the commercial courts will be at the center of the project's focus. Findings generated by the Project
will help form the basis on which further reforms of the legal and judicial sector will be articulated. Under the
Project, an automated court administration and case management model will be finalized and tested in the
pilot courts. The regulatory framework for trustees and administrators will be designed. Further, the
commercial judges and newly appointed trustees will be trained and their skills for playing their respective
roles in the bankruptcy process and other commercial matters will be enhanced. Access to timely and accurate
legal information for commercial court judges and legal professionals will be improved.
36.    Since the effectiveness of the bankruptcy system also depends on institutions outside the judiciary,
e.g., bankruptcy trustees and administrators, the Project reaches beyond the borders of the judiciary. Because
of the interrelationship and similarities between bankruptcy and other commercial cases (reflected in the fact
that in Croatia there are few judges who specialize in bankruptcies only) strengthenipg the administration of
the bankruptcy cases will by extension improve the processing of other commercial cases as well. These
considerations contributed to the decision to extend the project training activities to all commercial court
judges.
14 The new regulation issued by the MoJ in 1999 introduced the examination of trustees administered by a specially created MOJ
commission. The State exam comprises testing the knowledge of: (i) Bankruptcy Law; (ii) Civil Law, Company Law and Commercial
Law; and (iii) Accounting and Finance.



9
Rationalefor LIL
37.    The Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was selected as the instrument for this Project because it
supports a rapid intervention, while providing an opportunity to leam about the institutional environment in a
way that would support a broader subsequent reform agenda. Specifically, this instrument has been selected
for the following reasons: (i) to respond to some of the most pressing constraints to private sector
development (bankruptcies and commercial disputes related to bankruptcies); (ii) to respond to some of the
more immediate needs of the judiciary (concentration of the case backlog in the commercial courts and
training of commercial judges); (iii) to assess the Government's readiness to accept more substantial changes
in the judicial governance structure, such as phasing out the involvement of the MOJ in court management
and increased independence of judges; (iv) to acquire more experience in and understanding of the Croatian
judicial sector; and (v) to investigate the environment surrounding bankruptcy proceedings, through an
insolvency assessment study following a model now being applied by the Bank in a number of countries.
Finally, a small intervention like LIL can leverage significant donor support, as already demonstrated by the
participation of USAID in the Project.
38.   As a Cofinanciers of the proposed Project the USAID will support the development and
implementation of the court and case management model through providing technical assistance in the areas
which will include, but not limited to: developing operational procedures, implementing new software and
equipment, and user requirements for hardware and software; developing standardized process forms for court
administration and case management; analyzing the legal/regulatory framework for commercial court
administration and case management and suggesting improvement, as necessary; developing the initial
structure of a computerized legal information system for the commercial courts; planning a training program
for the commercial court judges and non-judicial staff; public education campaign on bankruptcy; and public
participation.



10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
Indicative     %       Bank-       % of
Component                Sector         Costs        of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)      Total    (US$)    financing
1. Commercial Court              Institutional                           3.2
Administration and Case            Devt.            4.3        61                  63
Management Model
2. Legal Information System      Institutional      0.6         9        0.5       10
Devt.
3. Regulatory Framework for      Institutional      0.5        7         0.4        8
Trustees and Administrators        Devt.
4. Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy   Institutional   0.95      14         0.5       10
Professionals                      Devt.
5. hisolvency and Legal Services    Institutional   0.2        3         0.15       3
Framework                          Devt.
6. Project Management            Institutional      0.4        6         0.3        6
Devt.
(i)Total Project Costs                6.95     100         5.05    100
(ii)lnterest During Construction      -           -         -
(iii)Front-end Fee                    0.05        1        0.05       1
(iv)Total Financing Required          7.00*    100*        5.00*   100*
*The numbers included in the respective totals are rounded.
39.   The support to legal and judicial reform will start with the modernization of the those areas of the
justice sector which are critical to the immediate needs of economic development. Subsequent reform effort
will focus on the broader issues of justice administration and the legal framework. The proposed Project, as
designed by the Government and the courts with the Bank's assistance, supports the Government's strategic
choices for the sector as follows:
1. Commercial Court Administration and Case Management Model. This component will support the
design of an effective replicable court and case management model and its implementation in six pilot
courts-the first-instance commercial courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osjek and Varazdin, and the High
Commercial Court in Zagreb. The implementation of the model is expected to decrease the current
commercial case backlog, particularly in the Zagreb court, where the case backlog is the largest, and
rationalize, automate and ultimately speed up court proceedings.
The initial implementation phase will include development of a prototype Court and Case Management
System (based on the court and case management model designed under the PHRD Grant) and its
deployment in two of the six pilot commercial courts, and the procurement of a first batch of urgently
needed off-the-shelf IT hardware for all pilot courts. The second implementation phase will include roll
out of the prototype to the rest of piloted courts and designing operational manuals for the court and case



11
management. To the extent feasible, technical assistance will be provided by other donors, in particular
the USAID. The USAID technical assistance is planned to focus on: change management, development of
standardized process forms, redesign of laws and regulations as needed, design of the training program
and provision of the training as it relates to the activities described above. The USAID contribution to
technical assistance for this component is estimated at US$1.2 million. The Bank loan will fund the
development and acquisition of application software, and the provision of computer hardware, basic
software, initial LAN and WAN network installation expenses, and technical training. It will also fund
some technical assistance directly supporting the implementation of the component.
2. Legal Information System. This component will provide for the creation and access to an automated
and networked legal information system in the pilot courts, which will be accessible to the trustees and
bankruptcy professionals. Starting with bankruptcy-related laws and court decisions, the system will
include mainly, the full text of laws, international treaties, and relevant court rulings and precedents, and
will have full text-based search and retrieval capacity. Due to the lack of experience, usually reflected in
the court decisions and precedents, the index will be designed to permit the inclusion of relevant rulings
of bankruptcy cases from nearby countries such as Germany and/or Austria. Access to intemational law
databases is particularly important for Croatia with its long coast, will also be facilitated. Any hardware,
basic software and networking required would be included in the procurement for Component 1.
3. Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators. The regulatory system will: (i) build
capacity in the MOJ to license the trustees and administrators; (ii) provide incentives for creating an
independent regulatory body for trustees and administrators under the umbrella of the Chamber of
Commerce; and (iii) assist in the preparation of the rules, procedures and standards for selection,
performance monitoring and evaluation, education and training, remuneration and other benefits of
trustees and administrators. In addition, regional centers for trustees and administrators will be established
and equipped in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and two other locations of the commercial courts selected for the
pilot (Osjek and Varazdin).
4. Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals. This component will provide ad-hoc intensive training
of sitting judges from all commercial courts, including bankruptcy specialists/experts (approximately 140
judges). Training will be predominantly aimed at strengthening judges' understanding of the business
environment but will also provide the opportunity for professionals to enhance their understanding of the
legal and institutional aspects of bankruptcy proceedings. Similarly, about 80 trustees and administrators
selected in 2000 will be trained. USAID will supplement this training by tackling in parallel broader
issues of commercial law and judicial skills.
S. Insolvency and Legal Services Framework. This component will finance studies and surveys aimed at
better understanding the legal and institutional framework of the bankruptcy administration and
commercial courts.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
40.    The Project supports the country's strategic goal-to create the conditions for economic growth by
strengthening the private sector and improving govemance by: (i) advancing judicial reform; (ii) encouraging
financial discipline and creating effective contractual and bankruptcy enforcement; and (iii) providing an
appropriate regulatory and institutional framework for bankruptcy professionals in order to promote their
competence and independence.
3. Benefits and target population
41.    The immediate benefits of the proposed Project will be; (i) increased confidence in and use of
commercial courts and of the bankruptcy process by enterprises and other actors in Croatia's economy; (ii) an
improved judiciary system, with commercial courts that are better managed and organized, and commercial
judges trained in current legal and institutional issues related to bankruptcy, and sufficiently knowledgeable
about business; (iii) a pool of bankruptcy professionals who will have increased knowledge relevant to their
profession, and a clear structure and rules in which to function; and (iv) strengthened capacity of the MOJ to



12
manage trustees and administrators. The target group is the enterprise sector and more broadly, the population
at large which will have access to a better judiciary systen-starting with the commercial courts.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
42.    The implementation period for the Project is expected to be three and a half years. The responsibility
for overall implementation will rest with the MOJ. Other entities responsible will be the courts selected to
pilot project activities, the first-instance commercial courts of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osjek and Varazdin, and
the second-instance court of Zagreb. Close cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and its regional
offices will be required for establishing regional resource centers for trustees.
43.    The MOJ has created an Advisory Council chaired by the Deputy Minister of Justice in order to
integrate the project activities into the economic reforms, to coordinate project activities with other programs
and projects financed by donors, and to oversee implementation. The Advisory Council comprises
representatives from the Government, courts, private sector, trustees, Bar Association, Chamber of
Commerce, Chamber of Craftsmen, Law Faculty and USAID who will nominate a non-voting representative
to the Council. The Advisory Council will review the key project documents and will be responsible for the
strategic decisions regarding the overall direction of the Project toward reforming judiciary and its integration
into the economic reform.
44.   The Project Management Unit (PMU/MOJ) will include the Project Coordinator, who will report
directly to the Deputy Minister of Justice, and two other staff as assistants. The PMU/MOJ (financed by both
the Government and the Loan) will be responsible for project management and technical coordination of all
project activities including day-to-day project administration, procurement preparing requests for
disbursements (which will be handled by the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of
Finance--PIU/MOF). and project monitoring and reporting. The Project Manager/Coordinator, with input
from the PlU\/MOF for the financial aspects, will prepare and send to the Bank quarterly progress reports, and
will support the MOJ in other operational matters. A project liaison in each pilot court will be identified to
facilitate project implementation. The project liaisons--whose activities will be coordinated by the Project
Manager/Coordinator-- will assist him/her in creating local panels consisting of judges, court employees and
users of a court. The main purpose of these panels will be to facilitate validation of the court and case
management model.
45.   Financial Management System (FMS). The Ministry of Finance has decided to centralize financial
management of a number of technical assistance and other small projects with the Project Implementation
Unit in the MOF which has implemented several Bank-financed projects to date. The PIl in the MOF has
been staffed with two accountant/financial specialists and will be responsible for loan accounting, managing
special accounts, preparing withdrawal applications and seeing that the annual audit of accounts is
undertaken. This PIU has previously assumed a comparable role in two bank-financed projects (Capital
Markets Development Project and first Technical Assistance Loan) and is now playing the same role for the
second Technical Assistance Loan (TAL2 approved in 1999) and recently approved Trade and Transport
Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) project. The capabilities of the PIU were assessed with respect to
financial management and reporting systems, including accounting, financial reporting, auditing, internal and
other control procedures. An accounting firm engaged in early 2000 helped the PIU/MOF install a proper
accounting system meeting "Intemational Accounting Standards" as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Committee, develop the manual of procedures and reporting format for TAL2. Subsequently, the
system was successfully adapted for the much larger TTFSE. Given the similarities between this project and
the TAL2 the same software and management report format will be used, without extra burden for the PIU,
and the same accounting firm is being engaged to adapt the manual of procedures to this project. The cost of
expanding the FMS capacity of the PIU/MOF to make it sufficient for carrying out financial management for
the Loan would be about $20,000 and will be covered by the TAL2.
46.   Project Audits. The Special Account and the Project accounts will be audited in accordance with
"International Standards of Auditing" as issued by the International Federation of Accountants. The PIU will



13
provide the Bank, within six months of the end of each government fiscal year, an audit report by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
47.    Several alternatives were considered during the identification and preparation of the Project,
including a full-scale technical assistance project that would undertake a countrywide improvement of the
performance of the commercial and civil courts, training of judges and provide minor support for trustees. A
learning and innovation loan was deemed to be the preferred alternative for the following reasons:
(i) The current situation in Croatia-with the breakdown of payment discipline in the real
sector-calls for an urgent intervention in the bankruptcy proceedings.
(ii) Commercial courts are the most problematic area in the judiciary since the need for their services
is the highest and their capacity to provide them is the weakest; therefore an immediate
intervention is necessary there.
(iii) The need for a broader judicial and legal reform is fully recognized in Croatia. To proceed with
this reform will require time to investigate country capacity and test the willingness to carry out
more substantial change in the governance structure.
(iv) The LIL-a smaller and more focused project-will allow to gain experience which can be
applied to a larger, follow-on legal and judicial reform project as well as any adjustment
operations or other project focused at restructuring the private sector and banks.
(v) A more careful approach is called for as the Bank has very limited experience in preparing and
implementing this type of project.'5
48.    At the initial stage of the Project design, the Bank considered an alternative way of supporting the
Project. The Bank was planning to provide more substantial technical assistance for court and case
management and upgrading the skill of bankruptcy professionals. Following the January 2000 elections and a
shift in client priorities the Bank played a key role in finding a way that strikes a balance between a
substantive project, fostering a partnership with USAID, and ownership by the government. Close
cooperation with USAID resulted in a substantial increase in financing for TA within the Project and for
closely related activities. Overall parallel financing directly related to the project activities by USAID could
thus reach at US$2 and US$3 million in grants. Within the general framework of this Project the USAID is to
finance a large portion of the technical assistance, while the Bank is using the freed loan resources to scale up
its support to automation of the pilot courts.
'5 This is the first Judicial and Legal Reform Project in the ECA region which uses a LIL and is primarily focussed on bankruptcies.



14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                               Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Privatization and Reform of Public  Enterprise and Financial      S                 S
Enterprises and Banking Sector     Sector Adjustment Loan -
ongoing.
Institutional Development - support to  Technical Assistance      S                 S
the EFSAL                          Project-completed.
Capital Market Development         Capital Markets                S                 S
Development Project-
completed.
Institutional Development - support to  Second technical          S                 S
the EFSAL and Capital Markets      Assistance Project-
Development                        completed.
Support and accelerate economy-wide   Structural and
structural and institutional reforms; and  Adjustment Loan
(ii) alleviating the social consequences  (SAL)-- planned
of the reform measures
Registry Reform                    Property Rights
Registration and
Cadastre Project -
planned.
Private Sector Development         Private Sector
Development - planned.
Other development agencies
European Union                     Two policy advisors to
the Ministry of Justice
UK Know How Fund                   Assistance to the
Banking Sector -
ongoing.
USAID                              TA in court and case
management, land,
collateral and company
registers, training for
judges and enforcement
of judicial decisions
($4.5 million overall)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
49.   The strategic choices made in designing this Project reflect the following important lessons learned
by the Bank in supporting private sector development and reforming the legal and judicial sector both in the
ECA region and worldwide during the last decade: (i) sustainable economic development requires institutions
which can effectively protect private property, enforce contracts, defend economic rights against
infringement, and ensure a safe environment for private investment; (ii) sustainable reform of institutions calls
for a bottom-up participatory process and a consensus on goals and the strategy to achieve them;
(iii) sustainable improvement in the area of insolvency law is effective only if the judiciary and trustees and
administrators have the capacity to implement it; (iv) sustainable improvement in court-based bankruptcy
proceedings require a broader commercial court reform; and (v) free and easy access to legal information
increases the transparency of in-court and out-of-court bankruptcy processes and improves the quality of
outputs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
50.   Judicial reform is high on the Government's agenda. In June 1998, the Committee on the Judiciary of
the Croatian Parliament prepared an "emergency plan" (the Report on the Current Situation and Problems in
the Croatian Judiciary) to address some of the most critical problems of the judiciary. At the same time the
Government approached the Bank with a request for urgent assistance. Since then, the Government has
undertaken many steps to improve court performance and the productivity of judges as described above. In
2000 the Government has started addressing more systemic issues such as judicial independence and
corruption, but also efficiency and effectiveness of judiciary. The fact that the Government started the reform
of the judiciary before Bank intervention shows its commitment and willingness to make changes in the
sector, although the readiness of the Govemment to reduce involvement of the MOJ in the court management
and increase judicial independence is yet to be tested. The Government utilized the PHRD grant to develop,
with assistance of local and foreign consultants, the basic model for modemization of the court and case
management. This Project has been designed with the broad participation of the MOJ, presidents and judges
of the pilot courts, the Bar Association, the Council of Judges, legal professionals from the private sector,
representatives of the main creditors-the banks, representatives of trustees, the Chamber of Commerce, and
the Zagreb Law Faculty professors. Preparation of the Project with such a broad participatory process is
expected to ensure strong borrower ownership.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
51.   The Government is well aware of and would like to benefit from the Bank's international experience
gained in supporting the legal and judicial reform in countries with a similar legal culture in Central and
Eastern Europe as well as developing countries in other regions. The Bank'g involvement will also be a
catalyst for the initiatives aimed at taking the most difficult decisions in judiciary and legal reforms in
Croatia, and proved to help mobilize and coordinate donor support for these reforms.
E.  Summary Project Analysis (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
52.   Economic: Not applicable
53.   Financial:  NPV and FPR: Not applicable
Fiscal impact: Not applicable
54.   Technical: Not applicable



16
55.   Institutional:
a. Executing agency. The MOJ will be the main executing agency and will oversee the implementation
and take overall responsibility for the Project. A broad--based Advisory Council chaired by the
Deputy Minister of Justice will be responsible for decisions regarding the overall direction of the
Project.
b. Project management. The PMU/MOJ (financed by both the Government and the Loan) will be
responsible for project management and technical coordination of all project activities including day-
to-day project administration, procurement, preparing requests for disbursements which will be
handled by PIU/MOF, and project monitoring and reporting. The Project Manager/CoordinatoT, with
input from the PIU/MOF for the financial aspects, will send the Bank quarterly progress reports. A
project liaison in each pilot court will be identified to facilitate project implementation and
communication with the Project Coordinator and the PMU/MOJ. The project liaison will assist the
Project Coordinator in creating local Project Coordination Panels consisting of judges, court
employees and users of a court. The main function of the Project Coordination Panels will be to
facilitate validation of the court and case management model.
56. Social:
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category      [ ] A   ( ] B   [XI C
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
57.   A concerted effort has been made to involve all key stakeholders in the preparation of the LIL. The
project team met with all partners in the judicial process: judges (all bankruptcy judges in Split and Rijeka,
the most experienced bankruptcy judges in Zagreb and all commercial judges in the High Commercial Court
in Zagreb), trustees, the Pres dents of the six candidate pilot courts, private lawyers, law school professors,
representatives of the Bar Association, representatives of the Government from the Ministry of Justice,
Economy, and Finance, the Chambers of Commerce and Crafts (with which all Croatian enterprises are
affiliated), the representatives of the legal department from the CNB and other financial institutions. In July
the Project's draft logical framework was given to all local experts involved in preparation of the Project for
study and discussion, and their comments were taken into consideration. Finally, surveys seeking bankruptcy
judges' perceptions of problems in the judiciary were completed by judges of the proposed pilot courts.
Consultants financed under the PHRD interacted closely with a number of judges in the preparation of the
basic court and case management model and assessment of the detailed IT needs of the courts.
b. Other key stakeholders
58.   The project team also met and sought the input of commercial banks, the CNB, enterprises and other
individual members of the business community.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
59.   The sustainability of the Project should be ensured by the following: (i) the Project strongly supports
the CAS objectives and is well-positioned in the Bank's reform program; (ii) the Government has clearly
shown its commitment and ownership of the program, which will ease the impact of the intended
interventions; (iii) the Project has been designed through of a participatory approach and reflects priorities,
values and views of those who work in the judiciary as well its users; and (iv) the Project is built on the



17
experience from similar projects carried out in other countries in transition from different regions and on the
experience from legal and judicial reforms from countries with a similar legal culture.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
The judges and court personnel cooperate  M      The model will be validated at early stage of the project
in the development and accept the new            implementation with strong participation of judges. The
model of court administration and case           Bank in collaboration with USAID  will monitor the
management.                                      attainment of the agreed benchmarks.
The Government, the Bank, and USAID       M      Mutually agreed implementation plans to facilitate
closely coordinate and monitor their             coordination of implementation have been developed.
efforts in modernizing the court
administration and case management
The capacity of the Ministry of Justice to  M    The PMUIMOJ will be responsible for project
manage large-scale legal/judicial reform         management and technical coordination of all project
efforts may need some time to develop.           activities. The Borrower is required to submit to the Bank
satisfactory evidence that the PMU has been established,
including the selection of the Project coordinator and
appointment of sufficient staff with qualifications and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
Acceptance of the new model by the key    M      The regulatory framework for bankruptcy professionals
players in bankruptcy admninistration            will be developed with strong participation of trustees and
judges.
Consensus of the key players on the       S      The commitment of the Government to reform and
regulatory authority and other key               strengthen capacity of bankruptcy professionals will
elements of the reform                           eliminate this risk.
Sufficient incentives to attract the best  M     The regulatory structure will be based on the best regional
professionals                                    practices and will balance different incentives.
The trained professionals will have       M      The full-fledged subsequent legal and judicial reform
sufficient incentives and opportunities to       accompanied by the other reform program (CAS) should
translate new skills into better                 support an environment with incentives for professionals
performance.                                     to use their skills.
The lesson learned during the             N      The project management design should assure
implementation of the bankruptcy                 interconnection between the project components.
legislation will be sufficiently
incorporated into the training lessons.
From Components to Outputs
Reluctance of judges and court personnel  M      The training courses will be designed and prepared with
to adopt a new pattern of behavior and to        strong participation of judges and will reflect their
learn from training and courses offered          preferences.
Lack of Government support for a more     M      The commitment of the Government to implement the
transparent and challenging selection            reform should guarantee willingness to mnake the right
process for trustees                             choices.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Is
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
60.   None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
61.   The Loan Agreement requires (i) appointing court representatives (liaisons) for each pilot court and;
and (ii) the satisfactory evidence that the PMU has been established, including the selection of the Project
coordinator and appointment of sufficient staff with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
2. Others
62.   The Loan Agreement requires: (i) maintenance of the PMU responsible for Project management,
implementation and technical coordination; (ii) maintenance of an Advisory Council which will oversee
Project implementation; (iii) Maintaining a court representative (liaison) in each pilot court; and (iv)
monitoring, evaluating and reporting.
H. Readiness for Implementation
63.   The Government is ready to implement the Project. The PMU/MOJ will carry out project
management including technical coordination of all project activities and the day-to-day administration,
except for the financial management responsibilities which, at the Borrower's request, will be located in the
PlU/MOF. Terms of reference for the main assignments have been agreed or are under preparation. The
Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
X.  Compliance with Bank Policies
64.   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Lubomira Beardsley
Sector Director: Pradeep Mr
Country Director: Andrew Vorkink



19
ANNEX 1
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Republic of Croatia: Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:      Sector / Country Reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable    economic  The    framework   for  Country and Bank generated  Economic and
growth through improving  effective  distribution  of economic statistics        political stability
governance               resources is improved.
Effective social safety net
Private sector response to
the enabling environment
Project Development      Outcome / Impact          Project Reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Improved court and non-  Performance of the pilot    Reports prepared by the World   Government's sustained
court systems essential for  courts increased as   Bank, USAID, the              commitment to judicial
restructuring      and  measured against           Government and other parties   reform
liquidation of enterprises  established court
and banks                performance standards                                   Sufficiency of resources for
implementing the new
The total of case-backlogs   Court statistics          systems across the board
at the commercial courts
decreased by 50%                                       Adequate administrative
and average time for                                   capacity for implementing
commercial case                                        the new systems
deposition decreased by
30%.                                                   Consensus on and support
of judiciary and bankruptcy
Number of completed                                    professionals for the reform
bankruptcies at the                                    program
commercial courts in the
pilot courts increased by                               Government's actions are
30%.                                                   consistent with the
objectives of economic
Regulatory Framework for                               restructuring
trustees and administrators
completed.                                             Creditors and Debtors have
sufficient incentives to use
Professionalism,                                       bankruptcy system
competence and integrity                               Close cooperation with the
of commercial judges and                               USAID
bankruptcy professionals                                Goverment's   sufficient
increased.                                             Gvrmn's          sfiin
capacity  to  manage  the
project



20
Output from each        Output Indicators:        Project Reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1.1. Developing a       Proposal for model court    Government reports, USAID  The judges and court
replicable model of court   organization is agreed with  reports and the Bank rnissions   personnel cooperate in the
administration and case    the Bank implemented in                              development of and accept
management tested and    the pilot courts.        Court statistics              the new model of court
evaluated at pilot                                                              administration and case
commercial courts       Proposal for model case   Opinion surveys within        management.
supported through parallel  flow management is agreed  judiciary, business and litigant
financing by the Bank and  with the Bank and      communities on the            The Government makes
USAID                   implemented in the pilot    performance of the judiciary  sufficient counterpart funds
courts.                                                available for project
implementation .
Proposal for the
management information                                 Close cooperation with
system related to court and                            USAID and progress
case management is agreed                              monitoring against mutually
with the Bank and                                      agreed implementation
implemented in the pilot                               plans
courts.
The operational manuals
for the new models are
designed and agreed with
the Bank.
The judges and court
personnel are trained in
how to use the new
models.
Standafdized legal
document forms approved.
The court performance
standards approved.
1.2. Creating a legal   Computerized index of     Government reports and Bank
information system for    legal documents accessible  missions
commercial courts       to bankruptcy professionals
with full text and research   User survey
tools created in pilot courts
1.3. Designing and      The regional centers for  Government reports and Bank    Acceptance of the new
implementing a more     trustees and administrators  missions                   model by the key players in
effective regulatory    operational                                             bankruptcy administration
framework for trustees                            Feedback from bankruptcy
and administrators      Standards, procedures, and  professionals               Consensus of the key
best practice guidelines for                           players on the regulatory
trustees and administrators                            authority and other key
designed                                               element of the reform



21
1.4. Upgrading the skills    Commercial judges trained   Government reports and Bank    Sufficient incentives to
of an agreed number of    (140).                      missions                       attract the best professionals
commercial court judges,                                                             are in place
trustees and              Trustees and administrators  Feedback from the trainees and
administrators to be      trained (80).              trainers                        The trained professionals
supported through parallel                                                           will have sufficient
financing by the Bank and                                                            incentives and opportunities
USAID                                                                                to translate new skills into
better performance.
The lessons leamed during
the implementation of the
bankruptcy legislation will
be sufficiently incorporated
into the training lessons.
Trustees will support
creation of professional
association.
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each    Project Reports:               (from Components to
components:               component, incl.                                           Outputs)
contingency)
1. Implementation of      USD 4.3 million            Project progress reports        Readiness ofjudges and
court administration and                                                             court personnel to adopt
case management model                                                                new pattern of behavior and
to learn from training and
2. Legal information      USD 0.6 million                                            courses offered
system
Government support for
3. Regulatory system for   USD 0.5 million                                           more demanding and
trustees                                                                             transparent selection
processes
4. Upgrading skill of     USD 0.95 million
bankruptcy professionals                                                             Overall impact of the
campaign on actual patterns
5. Insolvency and legal   USD 0.2 million                                            of behavior unknown
services framework
6. Project Management     USD 0.4 million



22
ANNEX 2
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Republic of Croatia: Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
By Component
Project Component 1: Commercial Court Administration and Case Management Model -
US$4.3million
1.    The objective of this component is to develop and implement a replicable model of court
administration and case management which will feed in the subsequent broader court administration
reform. Because the core production process of the courts is reaching a court decision, case flow
management is central to achieving this objective. Improving case flow management will necessitate
changes in the use of the resources: the judges and court staff, information, equipment and facilities.
2.    A model for case and court management in the pilot courts has been prepared under the PHRD
Grant. This preparatory efforts included the review of existing business processes relevant to the
operation of commercial courts, their redesign, and the identification of the scope for improvement. To
implement the case flow management model: (i) the proposed case management procedures will be
analyzed and refined by the pilot courts with consultant support (via so-called "walkthroughs"); (ii) these
procedures will be implemented and tested in two of the pilot courts (Split and Rijeka); and (iii) the
finalized procedures will be replicated at the four remaining pilot commercial courts: Zagreb (first
instance), Zagreb (second instance), Osjek and Varazdin and reflected in the manuals and guidelines.
3.     Each court will develop an implementation plan for the introduction of the proposed case
management model. The implementation plans will have to take into consideration and appropriately
balance the individual needs of the pilot courts and the need for a standardized, uniform case management
system. As for the first instance commercial court in Zagreb, the implementation plan will also include
provisions for case backlog reduction. Based on the experience with the two courts where the case
management model will be implemented first (the prototype courts), the case management model will be
adjusted.
4.    The loan will fund this component according to the following breakdown in the amount of about
$3.2 million. The Loan will finarice hardware, basic software including a data base management system,
the services needed for the initial set up of networks/data communications and the training of the court
staff (about 2.1 million). The Loan would also finance the development of the application software which
would be specifically designed to support the new case management model including case statistics,
archiving, and other functions related to raising the court efficiency (about $0.8 million). The Loan will
also cover the cost of technical assistance associated with the development and implementation of the
new case management model and which will not be covered by USAID (about $0.3 million). Project
Component 2: Legal Information System - US$0.6 million
5.    This component will cover the development of an automated, indexed database of legal
documents, network-accessible to judges and bankruptcy trustees and administrators with full text based
search and retrieval capacity, and setting up access to it from the pilot courts. The database shall contain
laws, regulations, international treaties, and court precedents. Because of the lack of precedents and the
necessity to ensure substantive consistency and predictability of decisions, all bankruptcy decisions will



23
be included in the database. Access for trustees and administrators to the database shall also be
established. The legal information system will include links to international databases which is especially
important for a country with a long maritime borders such as Croatia.
6.     The initial database of laws and decisions to be created over the project will consist of laws and
court decisions in the area of bankruptcy. Among the first steps will be the elaboration of a feasibility
study and implementation plan for the legal information system, and the development of a classification
system.
Project Component 3: Regulatory Framework For Trustees And Administrators - US$0.5 Million
7.     The regulatory system will: build a capacity in the MOJ to license the trustees and administrators;
provide incentives for creating an independent regulatory body for trustees and administrators under the
umbrella of the Chamber of Commerce; and assist in the preparation of the rules, procedures and
standards for selection, performance monitoring and evaluation, education and training, remuneration and
other benefits of trustees and administrators.
8.     The Component outputs will be as follows:
(a) Design of standards and processes for testing the knowledge and understanding of trustees and
administrators;
(b) Establishment of regional centers in Zagreb, Split Rijeka, Osjek and Varazdin for bankruptcy
professionals in the regional offices of Chambers of Commerce and/or Crafters, including the
provision of basic equipment such as computers, fax machines and photocopiers; and
(c) Design of a regulatory framework which comprises: (i) procedures for considering applications
for authorization and checking educational requirements, knowledge, skills and integrity of
candidates during the licensing process; (ii) standards and procedures for monitoring performance
and compliance with case administration, professional and ethical standards and best practice
guidelines, including the process and conditions for suspension and removal of license; (iii) best
practice guidelines; (iv) proposal for structure of remuneration and other benefits; and (v)
proposal for a regulatory body which shall be responsible for overseeing and monitoring of
trustees and administrators and definition of the optimal scope of its competence and authorities.
Project Component 4: Upgrading Skill of Bankruptcy Professionals - US$1.0 million
9.     This component will improve the skills of commercial judges and bankruptcy professionals
relevant to the processing of commercial cases, including bankruptcies. USAID will support training
programs for commercial judges aimed at improving their general skills. The Bank loan will provide ad-
hoc intensive training of sitting judges from all commercial courts, including bankruptcy
specialists/experts (approximately 140 judges). The training will be predominantly aimed at strengthening
judges' understanding of the business environment but will also provide the opportunity for professionals
to enhance their understanding of the legal and institutional aspects of bankruptcy proceedings. Similarly,
up to 100 trustees and administrators selected in 2000 - 2001 will be trained with the Bank support.
USAID will supplement this training by covering broader issues of commercial law and judicial skills.



24
10.   The Component outputs will be as follows:
(a) Preparation of diagnostics and other studies for designing an education program for commercial
judges and carrying out initial intensive training programs to enhance professionalism and
competence of commercial judges. The programs will be aimed at the sitting bankruptcy judges
and members of bankruptcy tribunals of all commercial courts (not only pilot courts). The
program will address all relevant legal issues (specifically issues related to the current application
of the bankruptcy law and general rules of interpretation of laws as they result from the Croatian
theory of law) and will facilitate the transfer of international practical experience in the area of
insolvency. Integrated parts of the program will be lessons on economics, finance, business
management, accounting, and other areas relevant to decision-making.
(b) Preparation of diagnostics and other studies to design an education program for trustees and
administrators and to carry out initial intensive training programs. (Training will be aimed at
trustees and administrators licensed and registered in the 2000 list of trustees and administrators).
Project Component 5: Insolvency and Legal Services Framework- US$0.2 million
1I.   The Component will include the studies, which will improve the analytical basis to articulate the
subsequent full-fledged legal and judicial reform program. This component will finance, among other
things, an insolvency assessment study, a legislative review (leading possibly to the preparation of
amendments of the bankruptcy legal framework) and a study on the legal service use patterns, which will
examine services provided by both the courts and the out-of-court systems.
Project Component 6: Project Management- US$0.4 million
12.   The Component will provide to the PMU/MOJ training, procurement advice, audit services and
project management/coordination.



25
ANNEX 3
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Republic of Croatia: Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
Project Cost By Component                  Local         Foreign         Total
(US$ million)
1. Case and Court Management Model                       0.38          3.38           3.75
2. Legal Information System                              0.26           0.26          0.52
3. Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators  0.17           0.26          0.43
4. Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals          0.25           0.58          0.83
5. Insolvency and Legal Services Framework               0.08           0.05          0.13
6. Project Management                                    0.11           0.28          0.38
Total Baseline Cost                                      1.24           4.80          6.04
Physical Contingencies                                 -             -              -
Price Contingencies                                   0.19           0.72           0.91
Total Project Costs                                      1.43           5.52          6.95
Interest during construction  -              -             -
Front-end fee     0.00          0.05           0.05
Total Financing Required                                 1.43           5.57          7.00
Project Cost by Category                  Local         Forei2n        Total
(US $ million)
Goods                                                    0.21           1.92          2.13
Technical Assistance, including training                 1.21           3.61          4.82
Others                                                   0.00           0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs                                      1.43           5.53          6.95
Interest during construction
Front-end fee                                                          0.05           0.05
Total Financing Required                                 1.43          5.57           7.00
Cost estimates include VAT on goods and on local services. The USAID contribution towards technical assistance is counted
as 100 percent foreign costs.



:26
ANNEX 4
COST- BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
OR
COST EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Republic of Croatia: Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
Not Applicable



27
ANNEX 5
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Republic of Croatia: Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
Years Ending Dec. 31
(US$ million)
Financing Required           Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.40           1.55          2.05          0.95          4.95
Total Project Costs
Front-end Fee             0.05                                                     °
Total IBRD Financing         0.45          1.55          2.05          0.95          5.00
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 0.45           1.55          2.05          0.95          5.00
Government/USAID         0.70           1.00          0.30          -             2.00
Total Project Financing      1.15          2.55          2.35          0.95          7.00



28
ANNEX 6
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Republic of Croatia: Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
Procurement
1.    The procurement of goods and services will be done in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September
1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997, and January 1999). The Bank's standard bidding documents
for goods and the standard forms of contract and request for proposals for consulting services will be used under
the Project. Any goods or services not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the public
procurement regulations of the country or the co-financing institution's procurement regulations.
2.    ADVERTISEMENT: A general procurement notice will be published in the United Nations Development
Business in March 2001, announcing goods and consultant services to be procured and inviting interested eligible
suppliers and consultants to express interest. Specific Procurement Notice in Development Business will also be
required for all consulting assignments exceeding US$200,000 per contract. Notification and advertising will be
carried out in accordance with the provisions in the Guidelines.
3.    IMPLEMENTATION: Responsibility for all procurement under the project will rest with the Ministry of
Justice (MOJ). The Advisory Council chaired by the Deputy Minister of Justice will be responsible for the
steering and direction of the Project. The Project Management Unit of the MOJ (PMU/MOJ), comprising a
coordinator, two project assistants, financed by both the Government and the Loan, will be responsible for project
management and technical coordination of all project activities including day-to-day administration. The members
of the PMU team will have limited experience with Bank procurement procedures for goods and services. The
procurement handling capacity is critical to the success of the Project and procurement difficulties are likely to be
encountered during implementation, particularly in the first year of operation. The Project provides for
strengthening of the procurement capacity: the Government will retain the services of a qualified and experienced
international procurement specialist for eight months to supplement its procurement capacity and will recruit
qualified counterpart staff to work with the procurement consultant who will assume the procurement function
after necessary training, on-the-job and abroad, at the end of the assignment of the procurement consultant. The
USAID also committed itself to assist the Government in conducting procurement. The assistance will comprise
technical reviews and comments on the procurement packages. After one year of the implementation, the Bank
mission will re-assess the capacity of the Unit to effectively manage the Project.
4.    ACTIONS: During appraisal and re-appraisal, it was agreed that the Government will take the following
measures to strengthen the capacity of the PMU before the loan becomes effective: (i) PMU/MOJ will retain the
services of a qualified and experienced procurement specialist for the first eight months of Project
implementation; and (ii) the PMU will benefit from the USAID assistance defined in the Scope of Work,
currently under preparation and finalization. The PMU should start the procurement consultant selection process
immediately after negotiations of the project. The selection and contract of the procurement consultant will be
subject to prior review by the Bank.
5.    ASSESSMENT: The Bank, in association with the Government, has completed the Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR), the conclusions of which are generally positive. The institutions in the public sector
are well established, but are relatively inexperienced. The legal system of Croatia is comprehensive, clear and
consistent. The Public Procurement Law (PPL) follows the UNCITRAL model law and replaces all earlier
procurement decrees. It applies to central government entities, bodies of local government, and any state-owned
entity, or agency using public funds and budgetary guarantees. The PPL provides for fairly transparent,
competitive and economic procurement methods. However, there is general lack of familiarity about its contents



29
and applications among procuring entities and the private sector. The main weaknesses highlighted in the CPAR
are: (i) inadequate capacity and capability in the country, for which the main constraint is recruitment of qualified
staff and training; (ii) lack of country standard procurement documents and manual; (iii) lack of delegation of
authority for approval of procurement actions and decisions; and (iv) possible conflict of interest due to the
current role of the Chamber of Economy. The CPAR recommends a series of actions to overcome the institutional
and system weaknesses. The implementation of the action plan prepared under the CPAR will fuirther improve the
procurement environment and enhance the transparency and accountability of procurement actions and decisions.
6.     There are 15 Bank-financed projects under implementation in Croatia. The overall procurement
performance under these projects has been generally satisfactory except for some cases of procurement delays,
which are mainly attributable to the inexperience of the procurement staff and inadequate coordination among the
agencies involved in project implementation.
7.     The Project launch workshop shall be conducted immediately after the effectiveness of the loan, which is
expected to be in October 2001.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
8.     Goods: All goods contracts estimated to cost at and above US$100,000 each shall be subject to
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts estimated to cost between less than US$100,000 each shall be
through International Shopping (IS). Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each shall be trough
National Shopping (NS).
9.     Consulting services, training, and audit: Selection of consulting firms, training providers (firms), and
project audit (firm) shall be through Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), Selection Based on Consultant
Qualifications (CQ), and Least Cost Selection methods as defined in Annex 6, Table Al and D. Selection of
individual consultants will be carried out in accordance with the provisions 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines on
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
10.    In-country workshop and training abroad: Expenses related to in-country workshops such as translation
and other costs, and training abroad will be through Statement of Expenditure (SOE) with Bank's prior review
and approval of the agenda, participants for training, training institutes and estimated budget.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category             (a)Procurement Method-L            Total Cost
ICB     NCB    OtherL'   NBF
1. Goods                    2.0        -        0.13       -           2.13
(2.0)              (0.13)                  (2.13)
2. Services                  -         -        2.82       2.0          4.82
(2.82)     (0.00)      (2.82)
3. Misc (Front-end Fee)      -         -       (0.05)      -           (0.05)
(0.00)                 (0.00)
Total                     2.0       -        3.00       2.0          7.00
(2.0)               2.95      (0.00)       (4.95)
1 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services.
ICB - International competitive bidding
NCB - National Competitive bidding
NBF- Non-Bank financed, includes consultants procured under USAID funding.



30
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                                                               Total Cost
Services                                Selection Method                               (including
Expenditure        QCBS    QBS         SFB      LCS       CQ       Other    NBF         contingencies)
Category
A. Firms               2.15                         0.03      0.10      0.0       1.5           3.98
(2.15)                      (0.03)   (0. I 0)    (0.0)                  (2.48)
B. Individuals                     -                  -        -        0.44       -            0.24
(0.44)                  (0.24)
Total           2.15                         0.03      0.10     0.44       1.5           4.22
(2.15)                      (0.03)   (0.10)    (0.44)                   (2.72)
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
NBF = Non-Bank Financed
Figures in the parenthesis are the amount to be financed by the Bank Loan
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
11.    All ICB and the first contract under IS, shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. The consultants'
contracts estimated to cost over US$100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals, and all TORs and methods for
selection of consultant contracts, irrespective of the value, shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. Expenses
related to in-country workshops such as translation and other costs, and training abroad will be through Statement
of Expenditure (SOE) with Bank's prior review and approval of the agenda, participants for training, training
institutes and estimated budget. All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review. The Bank's supervision
missions will review one of ten contracts, which are subject to post review. The procurement plan and schedule
will be updated every three months and sent to the Bank together with the quarterly progress report.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl'
Contracts Subject to
Expenditure          Contract Value          Procurement         Prior Review/Estimated
Category             (Threshold)              Method            Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                                  (US$ millions)
1. Works                        -
2. Goods                    50Or less                 NS            0.045
100 or less               IS                       0.086
100 or above             ICB                       2.000
3. Services           (Indiv.)   50                 Other                      0.437
(Firm)    100           QCBS/CQ/LCS                     2.154
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                       4.72
1 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:   Average



31
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One supervision mission every 12
months (a procurement staff will be included in the supervision mission to carry out post-
reviews).
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
12.   Disbursement of the loan proceeds will be administered by the PIU in the Ministry of Finance, in
consultation with the project coordinator in MOJ. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed over three and half
years. The Bank would finance: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultant services, expenditures for study tours,
surveys, studies and training; and (ii) for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 100% of local
ex-factory costs for locally manufactured items and 85% of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Goods                                        1.85        100% of foreign, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 85%
of local expenditures for other items
______________________________________ _ ___________________ procured locally
Technical Assistance                         2.45        100% less identifiable taxes levied by the
(Consultants services, including                         Croatian authorities
software, training, and related
expenditures)
Unallocated                                  0.65        As appropriate in Goods and TA category
Front-end Fee                                0.05
Total Project Cost                           5.00
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):
13.   Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) as follows:
(a)   Goods: expenditures under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent;
(b)   Individual consultants: contracts less than $50,000 equivalent;
(c)   Consulting firms: contracts estimated less than $100,000 equivalent; and
(d)   Training: expenses less than $50,000 equivalent.
Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained at the PMU, and made available for review by Bank
supervision missions and auditors.
Special Account
14.   To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a commercial bank. The authorized
allocation of the Special Account will be US$500,000 representing approximately four months of eligible
expenditures. Upon effectiveness, the borrower may withdraw an amount of US$250,000 representing 50% of the
authorized allocation. When the funds withdrawn from the Loan Account and any outstanding Special



32
Commitments amount to US$1 million, the borrower may withdraw the remaining amount of US$250,000 by
submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least
every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
15.   The commercial bank holding the SA would be chosen on the basis of open competitive bidding, and will,
as a pre-condition, be required to meet the following criteria:
(a)  It should be financially sound as demonstrated by its latest accounts which would be audited by an
internationally recognized audit firm;
(b)  Have significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
(c)  Have some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing letters of credit and
transacting direct foreign payments;
(d)  Be a member of SWIFT, or plan to use the facility to expedite payments;
(e)  Must issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA would not be set, seized or
otherwise attached to satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the Borrower;
(f)  Be willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by the Bank, including regular
statements, and any other information that may be considered necessary; and
(g)  Charge competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.



33
ANNEX 6, TABLE D
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND SCHEDULE
No of   Estimated   Preparation  Invitation/   Evaluation/    Contract  Contract
Activities       Type   Method    Ctr      Contract   of BD/RFP/   GPN/SPN    Recommen       Signing    Completion
Value       TOR/                     dation
Shortlist                Award
1.1 Consulting services    CS  SIC      3-4    1,100,000     9/2001      12/2001      6/2002       8/2002       5/2003
for case & court               and                           12/2002     02/2003       9/2003      11/2003      7/2004
management, including         QCBS
software development
1.2 Consulting services    CS  SIC       2      500,000      10/2001      12/2001     02/2002      3/2002       5/2002
for legal information          and                           10/2002     01/2003       3/2003      4/2003      12/2003
system, including             QCBS
software development
1.3 Consulting services    CS    QCBS    1      154,000      7/2001       9/2001      01/2002      3/2002      10/2002
for development of
regulatory framework
for trustees
1.4 Consulting services    CS    QCBS    1      500,000      9/2002      01/2003      3/2003       4/2003      12/2003
to design and deliver
training programs for
judges & trustees
(professional
development)
1.5 Consultant to canry    CS  CQ        1       95,000      7/2001      10/2001      12/2001     02/2002      01/2003
out a study on use
pattems of legal
services, including
court representation fee
and fee for legal
services
1.6 Consultant for     CS      SIC       1       57,000      01/2002                  2/2002       4/2002      8/2002
legislative review
(insolvency study)
2.1 Procurement of     G       ICB       2     2,000,000     9/2001      01/2002       5/2002      7/2002      01/2003
servers and computers                                        11/2002      5/2003      10/2002      01/2003      7/2004
2.2 Procurement of      G       IS       2      131,000      5/2001       8/2001      10/2001      12/2001      4/2002
PCs; & procurement of          NS              (aggregated    9/2002      11/2002     01/2003      02/2003      4/2003
fax machines,                                   amount)
photocopiers, etc, for
trustee centers
3.1 In-country          T     SOEY    -          90,000      6/2001                                           2001/2003
workshops for
bankruptcy judges,
trustees and,
administrators &
creditors
4.1 Project audits     CS      LCS       1       34,000      02/2002      3/2002      5/2002       6/2002       8/2004
4.2 Training of PMU    TR      SOE       -       9,000          -           -                         -        11/2001
staff
4.3 Procurement        CS      SIC       1       80,000      9/2001                    9/2001      10/2001      5/2002
advisor
4.4 Project            CS      SIC       1      200,000      5/2001       6/2001       7/2001      9/2001       7/2005
manager/coordinator   I                                    _           _ __
2 Workshop agenda, timing, and costs are subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
CQ - Selection based on Consultant Qualification
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
IS - Intemational Shopping
LCS - Least Cost Selection
NS - National Shopping
QCBS - Quality Cost-Based Selection
SIC - Selection for Individual Consultants
SOE - Statement of Expenses



34
Annex 6, Table DI: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop:   Immediately after effectiveness of the Loan
(tentatively April 2001)
Estimated date of publication of General  Prior to negotiations (tentatively January
Procurement Notice (GPN):                2001)
Indicate if there is procurement subject to  Yes
mandatory Specific Procurement Notice
(SPN) in Development Business
Domestic Preference for Goods:           Yes
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable:  N/A
Retroactive Financing:                   No   _
Advance Procurement:                     No
Explain briefly the Procurement System:  The Unit in MOJ will be responsible for all
procurement activities, including record
keeping. Project team in HQ will monitor the
progress.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement There is no joint co-financing of any contracts
arrangements under co-financing:         under the project. However, USAID is
planning to provide parallel financing for
technical assistance to the court and case
management component. Selection of
consultants financed by USAID will follow
the procurement procedures of USAID. It
was discussed and agreed that USAID will
provide the draft TORs to the Bank for
comments to ensure that the scope of the
services is consistent with the needs of the
project and the assignment will be carried out
in accordance with the agreed schedule.
USAID will ensure that the selected
consultants will have the necessary
professional qualifications. The Bank team
will coordinate closely with the USATD
project team both at the project preparation
and implementation stages.
PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's  Lingzhi Xu, Procurement Specialist
Staff part of Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project:
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field   Facilitate and monitor the procurement
Office in procurement:                   process.



35
Annex 6, Table D2
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Findings and Actions
Items Assessed                                 Major         Risk Assessment          Actions              Proposed Date
Assess men It       Weaknesses                               Proposed              of Completion
N    P    F    S             L     A    H
(a) Legal Aspects                    X         Ref CPAR which            X           Ref CPAR
was issued on Aug
16,1999
(i) Laws & regulations    _       = =         ._    =                        =
(ii) NCB procedures                _                                            .
(iii) Intemal codes &
manuals                    _______
(b) Procurement Cycle
Management
(i) General handling     -         X        MOJ has limited           X           MOJ employs qualified   By March 2001 at the
experience in                         and experience         latest
implementation of                     consultants to assist in
Bank-financed                         implementation of the
projects and some                     Project; and train its
experiencein                          staff for procurement
managing PHRD                         and contract
grants.                               management.
(ii) Procurement planning          X         Inadequate capacity       X           Enhance procurement     Key staff to be recruited
planning capacity       by negotiation and staff
through employment of   training (academic and
consultants and staff   practical) will begin in
training                2001 and will continue
during Project
implementation
(iii) Preparation of           X         -   Inexperience in           X           Undertake capacity       Staff training (academic
documents                                     using Bank                            building initiatives:   and practical) will begin
standard bidding                     training of staff on    in 2001 and will
documents                             procurement; foreign    continue during Project
consultants to assist on    implementation.
procurement process;
hands on practical
training to the staffby
the consultants.
(iv) Management of                  X        Some experience in         X          Consultants to           Consultants will be
process                                        contract                              supplement the capacity  selected and contracted
management                            and also to train the   by March 2001.
______ staff
(v) Bid evaluation                 X         Limited experience        X           Consultants to          Consultants will be
in bid evaluation                     supplement the capacity  selected and contracted
under bilateral                                               by March 2001.
grant programs
(vi) Contract award                 X        Limited experience        X                                    Key staff on board by
in awarding                                                   negotiation
intemational
contracts
(vii) Preparation & signing          X        Some experience           X           Consultant to           Consultants will be
of contracts                                                                        supplement the capacity  selected and contracted
by March 2001.
(viii) Contract management           X        Some experience           X           Qualified key staffto be   By negotiations
employed.
(c) Organization &
Functions
(i) Organization of unit          X         Inadequate capacity        X          Qualified procurement,   By March 2001.
& functions                                                                          and technical staff will
be employed.
(ii) Intemal manuals &             X        The govemment              X           Ref. CPAR
instructions                                   has enacted the
procurement law,
but no detailed
manual in place yet.
(d) Support & Control
Systems



36
Items Assessed                                  Major          Risk Assessment           Actions               Proposed Date
Assessment             Weaknesses                                Proposed               of Completion
N    P    F  JS                         L      A     H
(i) Auditing                        X        Project account                         Services of qualified    By end of first year of
will be subjected to                   auditors shall be        project implementation
audit by                               contracted.
independent
auditors.
(ii) Legal assistance               X
(iii) Technical &                    X
administrative controls               _      __
(iv) Code of ethics                  X
(v) Anticorruption                  X
initiatives
(e) Record Keeping                              Ref. CPAR
(i) Public notices
(ii) Bidding documents
(iii) Bid opening
information
(iv) Bid evaluation reports
(v) Formal appeals &
outcomes
(vi) Signed contract
documents                                                        _
(vii) Claims & dispute
resolution records
(viii) Comprehensive
disbursement data
(f) Stamng                       X              Capacity of existing                   Additional staffing is   Condition of
staff needs to be                      required.                effectiveness
___= __  strengthened.
(g) General Procurement               X         Ref. CPAR                   X
Environment
(i) Promoting a culture
of accountability            =______                                        _
(ii) Reputation of
procurement corps                               _     _      _                   _
(iii) Salary structure
(iv) Freedom from
political interference       __________                                                                         _    ____
(v) Existence of
experienced and capable
staff
(vi) Clear written
standards & delegation of
authority
(vii) Sound
budgetifinancial systems
(h) Private Sector                    X         Ref. CPAR             -     X     -
Assessment                       _       |________
(i) General efficiency &
predictability
(ii) Transparency
(iii) Quality of contract
management                  -_|_| ______
(iv) General reputation
N- Nu1l L- Low
P- Poor A- Average
F- Fair H- High
S- Satisfactory



37
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed
Goods: All ICB contracts at US$100,000 and above, and the first IS  OVERALL RISK ASSESSMENT
contract regardless of value                                             High
Consulting Services: contract at US$ 100,000 and above for firms,      Average  x
contracts at US$50,000 and above for individuals                           ow
Post Review Ratio: One in ten contracts
Form prepared by:
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One
every 12 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-  Lingzhi Xu
review/audits)                                               Procurement Specialist/Accredited
staff assigned to the Project
Signature: Xu Lingzhi
Date:    12/28/2000
Comments:
The procurement capacity of the project implementation unit in MOJ needs to be strengthened through: (i)
hiring of qualified staff by effectiveness of the loan; (ii) retaining services of a qualified procurement
consultant by effectiveness of the loan; and training of all staff in the project implementation unit. The overall
risk assessment of the Bank's CPAR in August 1999 was average and our assessment of the project
implementation unit is also average. After one year of project implementation, the Bank mission will review
the unit's capacity to manage the Project and will proposed appropriate measures to further strengthen the
capacity if needed.
The threshold for procurement methods under the Project is in line with the recommended thresholds in the
CPAR as follows:
Goods: at and above US$100,000 through ICB. Below $100,000 through IS and below $50,000 trough NS.
All ICB contracts and the first contract under IS or NS are subject to prior review;
Consultants: All consultant contracts for firms costing at and above US$100,000 each and for individuals at
and exceeding US$50,000 each will be subject to prior review. All TORs regardless of value shall be subject
to prior review.
One out of ten contracts will be post reviewed by the Bank missions.



38
ANNEX 7
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
Republic of Croatia: Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         8
First Bank mission (identification)            04/14/1999         04/14-29/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    11/30/1999           30/11/1999
Re-appraisal mission departure                 12/09/2000           12/09/2000
Negotiations                                   02/05/2001         04/23-24/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/30/2001
Prepared by: The Ministry of Justice (Croatia) with Bank assistance
Preparation assistance: Trust Fund: PHRD JPN 26113
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Luba Beardsley (Team Leader, Sr Public Sector Management Specialist)
Yves Duvivier (Lead Financial Analyst)
Darla Goldstein (Counsel)
Irina Kichigina (Sr Counsel)
Friedrich Konigshofer (Sr Informatics Specialist)
Alexey Proskuryakov (Public Sector Management Specialist)
Virginia Sapinoso (Team Assistant)
Lingzhi Xu (Procurement Specialist)



39
ANNEX 8
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
Republic of Croatia: Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



40
ANNEX 9
STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
As of Jan 2001
Difference
Orig Amt in US$                     between expected
Project    FY                 Purpose               IBRD   IDA   GEF   Cancel  Undisb.   Orig         Fnn
P070088   2001   TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR    13.90   0.00   0.00   0.00    12.36         0.00     0.00
P051273   2000   HEALTH SYSTEM                       29.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    28.41    -0.58      0.00
P057767   1999   TA INST REG REF PSD                  7.30   0.00   0.00   0.00      6.24     0.44     0.00
P039161    1999   RAILWAY MOD. & REST.               101.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    61.16    30.88     0.00
P043444   1998   MUN ENV INFRA                       36.30   0.00   0.00   0.00    25.55      5.26     0.00
P040139   1998  INVESTMENT RECOVERY                  30.00   0.00   0.00   0.90    11.93    17.62      0.00
P048983   1998   EAST SLAVONIA REC                   40.60   0.00   0.80   0.00    27.82    18.52      0.00
P008327   1997   EFSAL                               95.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    34.52    49.01    49.01
P008334   1997   COASTAL FOREST REGION               42.00   0.00   0.00   0.00      8.31     7.11     0.00
P044457   1997   EMG TRANS/MINE CLR                  102.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    12.57    34.36     0.00
P008335   1996   FARMER SUPPORT SERV                  17.00   0.00   0.00   0.00     8.57     8.57     0.00
P008329   1995   HIGHWAY SECTOR                      80.00   0.00   0.00   0.00      0.77     0.77     0.00
TOTAL  594.10   0.00  0.80.   0.90   238.212  171.967   49.01
Croatia
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of Jan 2001
In Millions of US Dollars
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY           Company         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Approval
1998         Alpe Jadran           3.06     0.00      0.00     0.00     2.25     0.00     0.00     0.00
1973/81/98    Belisce             11.31     6.01      0.00     7.54    11.31     6.01     0.00     7.54
1999         Bjelovarska          14.16     0.00      0.00     0.00     8.16     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999         Croatia Capital       0.00     5.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     1.12     0.00     0.00
1997         Koromacno             6.81     0.00      0.00     0.00     6.81     0.00     0.00     0.00
T.S. Banka D.D.      0.00     0.13      0.00      0.00    0.00     0.13     0.00     0.00
1996/99      Viktor Lenac          6.00     1.90      4.20     9.00     0.00     1.90     3.70     0.00
2000
Total Portfolio:      41.34    13.04      4.20    16.54    28.53     9.16     3.70     7.54
Approvals Pending Conmitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000    RZB Pension                0.00     0.00   3000.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00  3000.00      0.00



41
ANNEX 10
CROATIA AT A GLANCE
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-         --                    .
Croatia     Asia  Income        Development diamond*
1s99
Population. mid-year emillions)                       4-5       475       573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS$                  4,490      2,150     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     20.2      1.022     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-9S                                                                      1
Poputation (%                                        -1.1        0.1       1.4
Labor force (%M                                      -1.1        0.6       2.1     GNP                   .         Gross
per    1               j       primary
Most recent estimate (latest yoea available, 19 )                                  capita              "       enrollment
Poverty (% of opulation below national Doverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               57        67        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73        69        70
tnfant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                8        22        27
Child malnutrition f% of children under 5)              1         a         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)      63         ..       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    2         3        10
Gross primary enrollment (0/6 of school-age population)  87     100       109            Croaba
Mate                                                 88       101                        Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               87        99          -
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1909      1998      1999
Economic ratios-
GDP (US$ billions)                            -. ..             20.9      20.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                   23.2      23.2                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                              40.0       40.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      14.2     15.8
Gross national savings/GDP                                      16.8      16.6
Current account balance/GDP                             ..      -7.4      -72      Domestic           .
Interest payments/GDP                          .        .        1.3       1.9     Domest                      Investment
Total debt/GOP                                          .       39.6      39.4
Total debt service/exports                             ..        8.6        ..                      1
Present value of debt1GOP                               ..      32.0
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..       68.3
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          0.2      2.5       -0.3        ..        -Croaa
GNP per capita                               0.4      3.5       -t.3        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..               6.9       -0.2         -
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         4
Agriculture                                            ..        8.9       8.6
Industry                                               ..       32.4     32.0    20
Manufacturing                                         ..      20.8      20.5
Services                                               ..       58.7      59.4     o
Private consumption                                    ..       59.6      57.4    -20
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..       26.2     26.8                -GDI    *-"-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      49.0      48.1
(average annual growth)                  1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                   ..    -2.5         3.6       1.7    30
Industry                                             -38         1.5      -0.8    20
Manufacturing                                       -4.9       27        0.1
Services                                              2.0        3.6      -01    |io
Private consumption                                    1. .2              -3.0     o
General government consumption                          .        0.9      -0. 1           94   95   96   97
Gross domestic investment                                      -13.8      -1 7    -10
Imporls of goods and services                           .       -4.6      -3.9            -Exports         4 0-Imporns
Gross national product                        ..      0.1        1.8      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.                                                                       8/25/00
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



42
Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                             2,000
Consumer prices                                   ..       ..        5.7       4.2     1,500
Implicit GDP deflator                                       ..       9.0       4.0     1.000
Government finance                                                                      so
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       o_
Current revenue                                             ..      50.6      48.3               94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                                     ..        6.2       1.5                   GOP deflator -5-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            .        ..       0.5      -2.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                          1989       1998       1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                        ..      4,541     4,280      10 ooo
Capital goods                                                      231       242
Chemicals                                                          264       332      7,500
Manufactures                                                       584       572
Total imports (cif)                                                8,383     7,777      2500d
Food                                                               675       560      2,500
Fuel and energy                                                    596       859         D 
Capital goods                                                    2,952     2,706         °
Export price index (1995=100)                                                                 93  94   95   96  97   98   99
Import price index (1995=100)                     .                                                  Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(LUS$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                     .         ..     8,569     8,079      10T
Imports of goods and services                     .         .    10,663      9,701
Resource balance                                           ..    -2,094    -1,622
Net income                                                  ..      -164      -346      0
Net current transfers                                      ..       708       500           93i
Current account balance                                    ..    -1,550    -1,469                            - -
Financing items (net)                                      ..      1,701     1,897
Changes in net reserves                                    ..      -152       -429  
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                     ..      2,816     3,025
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                   .                 6.6       7.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
11979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                       ..      8,297     8,050
lBRD                                                              336       396                         A 336
IDA                                                      ..         0         G. :118                           i3
Total debt service                                                  845                                                E 996
lBRD                                                     ..        34
IDA                                                                 0        40
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                    34
Official creditors                                                 64
Private creditors                                        ..       588
Foreign direct investment                                ..       873      1,304
Portfolio equity                                         ..       205       576                    F 5,327
World Bank program
Commitments                                     .                  77        137      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                            ..       108        87       B- IDA    D -Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                            .                  17        21       C-IMF                        G-Short-term
Net flows                                                 .        92        66
Interest payments                                        ..        17         19
Net transfers                                   .         .        75        47
Development Economics                                                                                                      8/25/00



43
Map






VARAZHUNGARY
ZAGORSKA                                                                          ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- REGION BOUNDARIES
,,ZAGR                                                                           RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~ MAJOR TOWNS
ZA  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     SECO                                             .INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PRIMOQRSKO               K.                                          POZESKO-SLAVONSKA
0              50            iCO             ISO
KILOMOTRS
-w do noto, - A6 pd p,oTh WddS" kGw,  jdw-o~~o -. logo
0* d..1y bnv'y.  -        oooogo-c o(do6o-.d-o
0 C-Pi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0fi                                                   ~     I1IAA~
ZADARSK ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aXV
KNINSKA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~OAI
BOSNIA   AND              UOSAVA                                             fl3O1
H E R Z E G 0 V I N A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(OE  MNTI
N   ~~~~~~~~~~BLU
NTENEGRO~r                                IOAN
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-o                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '0~~~~
CO   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __FE D ._ _RE P ._ _O F_  A,



