Report No. PID8222
Project Name                     Croatia-Court and Bankruptcy (@)
Administration
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Judicial
Project ID                       HRPE65466
Borrower                         Government of Croatia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Justice
Tel: 385-1-371-0666
Fax: 385-1-371-0622
Environmental Category           C
Date this PID Prepared           December 6, 2000
Date Initial PID Prepared        July 22, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           December 11, 2000
Project Board Date               March 29, 2001
Country and Sector Background
The period of post-war recovery left Croatia with an economy marked by a
large external imbalance, growing unemployment, an unsustainable level of
fiscal expenditures, an insufficiently competitive real sector and a banking
system with several illiquid and insolvent institutions that could trigger a
systemic crisis. The banking sector has greatly improved and a systematic
crisis is not now a significant risk. Inadequate structural reforms have
seriously affected real sector performance which has been slow to respond to
changing market conditions. The new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
provides support for urgent macro stabilization and financial sector reforms,
as well as for deeper structural measures required for sustainable growth.
Among the key policy strategic objectives to achieve this are: (i) reducing
the size of the public sector, (ii) improving governance, and (iii) creating
conditions for competitive real sector development.
Increasing investments, especially through foreign investment, will require
measures to improve governance in Croatia. Significant investments will only
materialize if legislation and contracts can be enforced and business
practices are transparent and predictable. This requires an effective
commercial court and bankruptcy system operating through efficient procedures
and producing predictable outcomes. Also critical are honest and
knowledgeable judges and competent extra-court bankruptcy professionals. In
order to improve the critical elements of the bankruptcy system the court
administration and case management at the commercial courts should be
radically strengthened.
Currently the most pressing issue in the whole judiciary is the extensive
case backlog, about 1 million pending cases, 90t of which are at the
commercial courts. The main problems of commercial dispute adjudication and
bankruptcy proceedings could be identified as: (i) weak court administration
and case management system; (ii) lack of an effective management system for



out-of-court bankruptcy professionals; (iii) inexperienced and untrained
judges, bankruptcy administrators and trustees; (iv) ineffective information
system supporting bankruptcy administration; and (v) lack of public awareness
of the bankruptcy concept and its role in the economy.
An ineffective contract enforcement system leads to a breakdown in
payment discipline. The judicial system is also ineffective in enforcing
bankruptcy processes. Effective bankruptcy proceedings need to be put in
place, so that de-facto insolvent or illiquid enterprises are liquidated,
sold or closed within a reasonable period and resources are not tied up in
unproductive assets. The ineffectiveness in closing down bankrupt companies
is demonstrated by a large stock of inter-enterprise arrears among private
companies. Lack of transparency in closing of bankrupt companies also poses
risks to sound lending practices of banks. With reference to these
shortcomings and in accordance with the CAS, the Court and Bankruptcy
Administration Project will enable the judiciary to handle the situation in a
more proper way.
Special efforts will also need to be made in Croatia to reduce corruption.
Transparent and predictable governance practices through public institutions,
a functioning judicial system, an accountable public administration and a
banking system operating without political interference will help reduce
corruption.
The Proposed Loan
The external financing for the proposed project will be provided jointly
by the Bank, through the learning and innovation loan, and by the USAID. The
project supported by the loan will consist of the following components:
1. Commercial Court Administration and Case Management Model
2. Legal Information System
3. Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators
4. Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals
5. Evaluating the Market for Legal Services
Description
The project supports a key area of the Government's economic program, that
is, to encourage private sector-led growth. The project would facilitate
modernization of the State, improve public sector management, particularly
the judiciary, promote private sector development by designing appropriate
practices and developing mechanisms for bankruptcies. It is intended that the
approach to be used in the preparatory stage of the project, as well as
during its implementation, will be sequenced and participatory.
Financing
in US$ million
Source                   Local   Foreign         Total
Government/USAID
1.14    2.11             3.25
IBRD                     -       5.00            5.00
Total                    1.14    7.11             8.25
Implementation
The main implementing agency responsible for the proposed project will
be the Ministry of Justice. The MOJ will establish:
- 2 -



(a)             an Advisory Council, to be headed by the Deputy Minister of Justice,
to oversee the implementation of the bankruptcy legislation and the project.
The Council will comprise representatives from the following: the State
Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, the Association of Judges, the High
Commercial Court; each court selected for the pilot project, the Law Faculty,
the Bar Association, the trustee profession, and the Ministry of Finance, and
representatives of private sector.
(b)             a Project Implementation Unit in the MOJ which will, inter alia, be
responsible for: day-to-day management of the project, coordination with the
key stakeholders within and outside of the judiciary structure, secretariat
work for the Advisory Council, Bank procurement, and support to the MOJ and
the Bank in other operational matters.
Sustainability
All key stakeholders within and outside the justice system have agreed on the
priority that should be given to improving the Croatia's judiciary,
especially commercial dispute adjudication and bankruptcy proceedings.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Key lessons learned and reflected from the implementation of the technical
assistance and the LIL type of the projects include the following: (i) the
project proposals are more successful if they are simple and focused; (ii)
successful assistance should put in place sufficient capacity and sustainable
processes; (iii) the commitment of the Government and consensus of the key
players on the reform agenda is crucial; (iv) flexibility of the design of
the project and, in the case of LIL, also its outputs, ensures that resources
should be reallocated according to the emerging priorities and possibility of
replication of the project. The design of the proposed project took in
consideration the above lessons.
Poverty Category
Not applicable
Environmental Aspects
Not applicable
Program Objective Categories
The project would contribute to the development and improvements of key
elements of the business enabling environment needed for increased
investments, private sector development, protection of a fair market place,
transparency and speed of access to information.
Contact Point:
Lubomira Beardsley, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-8164
Fax No.:         (202) 522-2751; (202) 614-1139
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 15, 2000.
-3-



