                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000536




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-46130 JPN-26113)




                                     ON A

                                    LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION
                                    TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                    FOR A

           COURT AND BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATION PROJECT




                                 June 29, 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective May 14, 2007)

              Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna
                      1.00 = US$ 0.18
                   US$ 1.00 = 5.41 Kuna

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 ­ December 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
 CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
CBAP  - Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project (the "Project")
  EU  - European Union
FINA  - Financial Agency (formerly "ZAP")
 FMS  - Financial Management Specialist
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICMS  - Integrated Court Management System
  ICT - Information and Communications Technology
  ISR - Implementation Status Results and Reports
  KPI - Key Performance Indicators
  LIL - Learning and Innovation Loan
 MOF  - Ministry of Finance
 MOJ  - Ministry of Justice
 M&E  - Monitoring and Evaluation
NCSC    National Center for State Courts
 PDO  - Project Development Objective
 PMU  - Project Management Unit
SFRY  - Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
 TTL  - Task Team Leader
USAID - United States Agency for International Development


                Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director: Anand Seth
              Sector Manager: Ronald Myers
         Project Team Leader: Irina Kichigina
             ICR Team Leader: Craig Neal

                                              CROATIA
                   Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 27
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 35
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 53
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Court & Bankruptcy
Country:                Croatia                Project Name:          Administration Project
                                                                      (LIL)
                                                                      IBRD-46130,JPN-
Project ID:             P065466                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      26113
ICR Date:               06/29/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      CROATIA
Original Total
                        USD 5.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 4.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Project Management Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/06/1999    Effectiveness:        01/29/2002         01/29/2002
Appraisal:             12/11/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/13/2001    Mid-term Review:                         04/27/2004
                                     Closing:              07/31/2005         01/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Law and justice                                                100              100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms               Primary         Primary
Law reform                                                     Primary      Not Applicable
Legal institutions for a market economy                        Primary         Primary
Legal services                                                 Primary      Not Applicable
Personal and property rights                                   Primary      Not Applicable


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Anand K. Seth                     Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           Ronald E. Myers                   Sanjay Pradhan
Project Team Leader:      Irina L. Kichigina                Lubomira Zimanova Beardsley
ICR Team Leader:          Irina L. Kichigina
ICR Primary Author:       Craig R. Neal



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Project is to assist the Government of Croatia in
advancing orderly insolvency proceedings while modernizing selected commercial (and
municipal) courts and increasing professionalism and competence of judges, other staff of
the commercial courts, and bankruptcy trustees.

  Specifically, the Project aims to:


                                              ii

  1) Develop a replicable model of court administration and case management;
  2) Create a legal information system for commercial courts;
  3) Design and implement a more effective regulatory framework for trustees and
administrators;
  4) Upgrade the skills of commercial court judges, trustees, and administrators.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target   Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from    Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval       Target       Completion or
                                                documents)      Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Case backlogs at commercial courts reduced by 50%
                                                                          Bankruptcy case

                Rough estimate in PAD                                     inflow declined

Value           that 90% of the 1 million                                 from nearly 30,000

quantitative or case backlog in Croatian   Case backlog to                in 2001 to 1,100 in

Qualitative)    courts were in the         decrease by 50%                2005, while case

                commerical courts                                         resolution has risen
                                                                          from 7,663 to
                                                                          12,504 in 2003.
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   01/31/2007                     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Professionalism and competence of the commercial court judges and bankruptcy
                professionals is significantly increased.
                                           Seminars and
                                           roundtables                    Court user survey

                                           underway, with                 carried out in
                                                                          November 2006
                The public perceives both  more systematic                indicated that court
                judges and bankruptcy      planning for                   users are relatively
Value           professionals as lacking   training being                 satisfied with
quantitative or the requisite education    conceptualized.                various aspects of
Qualitative)    and skills to handle       To assess                      courts and their
                commercial matters,        enhanced skills                work, from the
                especially bankruptcy.     and competence, a
                                           user survey will be            work done by

                                           carried out to                 judges and court

                                           assess improved                personnel

                                           perf                           themselves.

Date achieved 06/13/2001                   01/31/2007                     11/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Regulatory framework for administrators and trustees completed


                                                 iii

                                                                            Efforts in these
Value                                      Regulatory                       areas significantly
quantitative or Incomplete and             framework for                    underperformed
Qualitative)    conflicting legislation    administrators and
                                           trustees improved.               relative to
                                                                            expectations.
Date achieved 06/13/2001                   01/31/2007                       01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised     Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values   Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Proposal for model court organization and case flow management as agreed with
                the Bank is implemented in the pilot courts.
                                           The integrated
                The case flow              court and case                   The MOJ finalized
                management system in       management                       the ICMS software
                Croatia is outdated and    information                      and moved the pilot
Value           cannot effectively support system (CCMIS)                   implementations in
(quantitative   the current demands on     is developed and is              the Municipal Court
or Qualitative) the judicial system.       fully functional in              Pula and the
                Court procedures take      the four pilot                   Commercial Court
                many years to be           courts (two                      Split into full
                resolved.                  commercial and                   operations.
                                           two municipal).
Date achieved 06/13/2001                   12/31/2006                       01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                          IP             Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/27/2001            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/28/2001            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     04/19/2002            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.05
  4     12/19/2002            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.32
  5     06/30/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.59
  6     12/01/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.59
  7     12/23/2003           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                     0.59
  8     06/04/2004           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                     0.74
  9     12/27/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.12


                                                iv

  10  06/29/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           1.30
  11  06/29/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           2.55
  12  03/13/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    4.88



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for
Bank assistance)

      The commercial courts of the newly independent Republic of Croatia faced their
      first large challenge in 1992, after the new Company Law triggered an avalanche
      of filings for registration of legal entities. The unprepared court system buckled
      under the weight and showed its systemic weaknesses. The weakened system was
      further swamped by a wave of cases associated with Croatia's separation from
      Yugoslavia.

      A new Bankruptcy Law ­ along the lines of the German Bankruptcy Law ­ was
      introduced in April 1996. The Law, which provided for the bankruptcy of
      enterprises, banks, and all debtors except municipalities, improved on the law of
      the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). It introduced,
      among other things, court supervised restructuring of enterprises. However, the
      new Law was fairly sophisticated and contained commercial concepts and
      procedures unfamiliar to most of judiciary. Further, the Law also introduced
      trustees and administrators, roles that required special professional skills not
      present in Croatia.

      In 1998, pending cases in the Croatian courts reached one million. A large
      fraction of the backlog was in the commercial courts. Fifty-five percent were
      concentrated in the courts of Zagreb, Split and Rijeka. Overall, seventy percent of
      the commercial cases took longer than one year to adjudicate. The users of
      judicial services complained about the lack of access to legal services, unfairness
      of the courts, unpredictability of court decisions and proceedings. The users'
      confidence in the judicial system rapidly eroded.

      At the peak of the judicial crisis in 1998, the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) analyzed
      the sector issues and proposed a package of measures aimed at improving court
      performance. The MOJ proposals were adopted by the Parliament and became the
      country's strategy for judicial reform. The proposed measures included: hiring
      additional judges, increasing their salaries, improving their working conditions
      and tightening their work discipline, intensifying supervision of courts, as well as
      computerization of the courts and the land register.

      In 1999, there was some reduction in the case backlog and the length of
      proceedings. This was largely attributable to increase in the number of judges and
      the judges working unsustainably long hours during that period. Most of the
      reduced backlog related to company registrations. In 1999, increasing numbers of
      more complex and time-intensive contract disputes and bankruptcy cases began to
      erode the previous gains.




                                              1

       The 2000 elections brought a new Government and greater appetite to move
       ahead with deeper reforms of the courts and bankruptcy procedures. At that
       juncture, the vast majority of judges, legal practitioners, trustees and other
       stakeholders (i.e., entrepreneurs, banks and business associations) believed that
       the bankruptcy law sets forth adequately the rights and obligations of participants,
       both in substantive and procedural terms. Instead, the perceived bottlenecks were
       primarily technical capacity limitations: court infrastructure, court management
       practices, and experience and skills gaps among court professionals, an
       inadequate regulatory framework for trustees and administrators, as well as a
       limited comprehension of commercial adjudication by the general public.

       The 2000 elections were also accompanied by an increased willingness of
       authorities and other stakeholders to subject distressed firms to bankruptcy and
       liquidation ­ in response to the build up on inter-enterprise arrears and the
       negative impact of the "walking dead" on the health of the enterprise sector. The
       ability of the commercial courts to handle an increased workload was seen to be
       essential to unwinding the distress in the enterprise sector and starting a path of
       sustainable economic growth.

       In early 1999, the Government approached the World Bank for support in
       effecting the reforms in the court system. By April 2001, the Court and
       Bankruptcy Administration Project (CBAP) was finalized and presented to the
       World Bank Board of Executive Directors in June 2001.

       In the interest of launching an extended partnership, Croatian authorities and the
       Bank agreed to use Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) to quickly address some
       well-recognized and pressing deficiencies in the judicial system. These included:
       court and case management, access to legal information, trustee and administrator
       regulatory framework, bankruptcy-related skills, insolvency and legal services
       framework. The LIL also served to focus donor efforts and to set the stage for a
       more comprehensive follow-on operation. In short, the Government turned to the
       Bank for its international experience in legal and judicial reform, its "convening
       powers", and its capacity to bring to the table sufficient resources to contemplate
       systematic reforms in a complex sector.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

       The PDO was to advance orderly insolvency proceedings, while modernizing
       selected commercial (and municipal) courts and increasing the professionalism
       and competence of judges, commercial court staff, and bankruptcy trustees.

       In particular to: (i) develop a replicable model of court administration and case
       management; (ii) create a legal information system for commercial courts;
       (iii) design and implement a more effective regulatory framework for trustees and
       administrators; and (iv) upgrade the skills of commercial court judges, trustees,
       and administrators.


                                              2

       The degree to which these objectives are achieved were to be measured by the
       following indicators:

       (i)      Increased capacity of the High Commercial Court in Zagreb and the
                Commercial Courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osjek and Varazdin (the pilot
                courts) to decide commercial cases, oversee trustees and proceed with
                bankruptcy cases.

       (ii)     An improved regulatory framework for trustees.

       (iii)    Increased professionalism, competence and integrity of commercial court
                judges and trustees.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

       No formal revisions were made.

       In May 2003, however, the MOJ, the Bank, USAID, and the EU signed a joint
       Cooperation Memorandum that merged: (a) the CBAP-supported commercial
       court case management system initiative; (b) the USAID's ongoing Municipal
       Court Information System initiative; and (c) planned EU CARDS court
       automation support. Consequently, the authorities and the three development
       partners set out to develop a single, comprehensive Integrated Court Management
       System (ICMS). The project resources, objectives and indicators were, thus,
       subsumed within a broader modernization effort, covering civil, criminal, and
       commercial proceedings and the corresponding court administrations.

       The change was motivated by the need to avoid duplication in the procedural
       innovations and automation of the commercial and general courts. It also sought
       to ensure a more uniform approach to court proceedings and reporting in Croatia.
       At the same time, there also was an increased appreciation of the importance of
       reliable and timely empirical information about the courts ­ as a guide to court
       reform and as facilitator of reforms (via the leverage that concrete and credible
       information on court performance and resources provides).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

       The main target group is the judges, as they will benefit from a reduced workload,
       and more time to devote to non-administrative tasks. MOJ will benefit from
       improved monitoring of court performance and informed allocation of resources
       for the court system. The enterprise sector and, more broadly, the population at
       large also benefit from access to a better judiciary system ­ starting with the
       commercial courts.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)




                                             3

       Commercial Court Administration and Case Management Model. Design a
       replicable court and case management model (based on work under the PHRD
       Grant). Implement the model in six pilot courts: the first-instance commercial
       courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osjek and Varazdin, and the High Commercial
       Court in Zagreb. Develop a prototype Court and Case Management System,
       including operational manuals. Obtain a first batch of urgently needed off-the-
       shelf, ICT hardware for all pilot courts. Roll-out technologies and operational
       manuals to the pilot courts. Provide (USAID-financed) technical assistance in
       change management, standardized process forms, redesign of laws and
       regulations as needed, design and implementation of training programs.

       Legal Information System. Create a networked, searchable legal information
       system for the pilot courts ­ starting with bankruptcy-related laws and court
       decisions ­ including the full text of laws, international treaties, and relevant court
       rulings and precedents (including relevant rulings of bankruptcy cases from
       nearby countries, such as Germany and/or Austria).

       Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators. Build capacity in the
       MOJ to license bankruptcy trustees and administrators. Provide incentives for
       creating an independent regulatory body for trustees and administrators under the
       umbrella of the Chamber of Commerce. Prepare rules, procedures and standards
       for selection, performance monitoring and evaluation, education and training,
       remuneration and other benefits of trustees and administrators. Establish and
       equip regional centers for trustees and administrators in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and
       two other locations of the commercial courts selected for the pilot (Osjek and
       Varazdin).

       Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals. Provide training to approximately
       one hundred forty judges from all the commercial courts on the business
       environment and on the legal and institutional aspects of bankruptcy proceedings.
       Develop a training program for trustees and administrators. Train approximately
       eighty trustees and administrators. Provide training on commercial law and
       judicial skills (USAID funded).

       Insolvency and Legal Services Framework. Undertake an insolvency assessment
       study, a legislative review and a legal services use pattern study as analytic inputs
       to formulate a full-fledged legal and judicial reform program.

       Project Management. Provide procurement and financial management support,
       project coordination and project account audits.



1.6 Revised Components

       No formal revisions.



                                              4

1.7 Other significant changes

        The main change in the CBAP, during the course of project implementation, was
        the broadening of the scope of the court and case management system to provide
        computerized support for all the major court procedures in each of the major
        divisions (commercial, civil, criminal).

        The extended scope of the Integrated Court Management System (ICMS) ­
        combined with one false start for the detailed functional design1 ­ substantially
        extended the required planning, development and implementation period (from
        the planned 3.5 years to the actual 5+ years). The proposed pilot sites also
        underwent some change, reflecting the broader functional coverage (i.e., to
        include the municipal courts in Pula and Zagreb and the commercial courts in
        Split and Zagreb). The pilots were to be followed, in the second half of 2007, by
        implementations in the county courts of Zagreb and Pula, the High Commercial
        Court and the Supreme Court.

        During the early years of the project, the EU ramped-up its engagement with the
        Croatian Government in the area of justice (among other Accession-related
        topics). Within the context of the CBAP, this led to EU funding for the necessary
        ICT for the broad roll-out of the ICMS (currently ongoing). The Insolvency and
        Legal Services Framework Component was also absorbed into the broader EU-
        CARDS program and other judicial reform mechanisms.

        In 2005, the work on Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators
        Component and Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals was folded
        together, following the realization that with a pending closing date (which was
        later extended), little time remained for implementation of separate contracts.
        Changes and reversal in the legal basis for trustees, among other things, resulted
        in project activities that were only realized in the design and planning for
        professional training for judges and bankruptcy trustees (i.e., a comparative
        analysis of the Croatian and EU insolvency framework and a draft curriculum for
        judges and trustees in bankruptcy). The accumulated delays resulted in the CBAP
        activities not proceeding to implementation of the planned training.

        In sum, the expansion of the scope of the ICMS and the success of the Legal
        Information System Component ­ together with a diminished focus on the other
        components ­ meant the CBAP coalesced as a court information system project.
        Correspondingly, the goals and benefits shifted from a focus on bankruptcy and
        commercial court procedures towards a broader task of establishing, via the ICMS,


1The original contract for development of functional specifications for ICMS ­ financed by USAID ­ was
cancelled and subsequently awarded to another sub-contractor.




                                                   5

         the conceptual, empirical and technological underpinnings of broader judicial
         reforms (e.g., procedural simplification, court administrative reforms,
         geographical consolidation, etc.).

         At the same time as the shift in focus of the CBAP, a US$ 350,000 IDF Grant for
         Strengthening the Institutional Capacity for Monitoring Judicial Efficiency (TFO
         52014) was mobilized to help address many gaps in empirical data regarding
         court performance. The Grant financed institutional capacity for monitoring
         judicial efficiency (e.g., seven workshops attended by one hundred and fifty
         judges and court staff on collecting and analyzing court statistics; an upgraded
         monitoring system in the Supreme Court for cases pending in excess of three
         years ­ the attention to which has led to a substantial reduction of the back log,
         and a first court user survey).

         The resultant work on judicial statistics and reporting, as well as the Bank-
         financed PAL program, significantly contributed to the impetus to address court
         delays by, for example, shifting non-juridical functions from judges to court
         personnel (e.g., property and business registration functions, petty enforcement
         actions, election commission responsibilities). These measures were embodied in
         the 2005 and 2007 PAL policy matrices2.

         The statistical reporting design has also informed the design of the ICMS ­ which
         is eagerly awaited by all key actors in the judicial system for the rich body of real-
         time operational data that the ICMS will generate.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

         The project design properly identified the links between an efficient and growing
         enterprise sector and the effectiveness and efficiency of the commercial court
         system (inclusive of the legal and regulatory determinants, as well as the skills
         and information base). Discussions among the key stakeholders and development
         partners corroborated these linkages and confirmed their urgency in Croatia.

         The choice of the LIL highlighted the fact that there was much to be understood
         regarding how best to effect reforms in the Croatian judicial system, and that the




2During 2004-2007, a series of Programmatic Adjustment Loans (PALs) were prepared by the Bank and
the Croatian Government. These supported broad policy reforms in a number of sectors., including the
justice sector. PAL-1 and PAL-2 (approved by the Board in September 2005 and May 2007, respectively)
included a number of structural reforms measures for the court system which had all been successfully
completed.




                                                    6

project was only the first step in an extended engagement with the authorities (and
other development partners).

The original project design was selective in terms of commercial court
administration and bankruptcy in particular.

With the benefit of hindsight, however, the original project design may have
overestimated how realistic it would be to sustain the focus on one segment of a
much larger and more complex judicial system ­ especially when the entire
system was in need of much reform and capacity-building. The design may have
also underestimated the challenge of sustaining effective champions of the
project's specific initiatives ­ especially within a multi-institutional sector (e.g.,
the MOJ, the court systems, the specific courts, the bar, the association of trustees,
etc.) and across the inevitable political cycles.

The PAD's lessons-learned and risks-identified anticipated these issues. They
highlighted the necessary conditions for reform success. This included the
virtuous cycle between building and demonstrating improved court capabilities
and increasing the buy-in of the actors in the commercial justice system.
Coordination and project management capabilities were flagged as risks (i.e.,
"Moderate"). In retrospect, these may have been under-appreciated.

Overall, the LIL instrument ­ notably its modest "first step" and its flexibility ­
was certainly an appropriate response to the various challenges faced by the
CBAP. The short implementation period normally associated with the LIL design,
however, was not realized. In significant measure, this reflects the exploratory
nature of the LIL and the evolving needs experienced by the client in an
institutional development/reform process. Also, as part of a larger set of
engagements with the Croatian authorities in the judicial sector, the extended
period and evolution of the CBAP activities served as a useful platform, as
viewed from the level of the country program.

Although it is actually a matter of project supervision, the adjustments to the
project design made through the 2003 Memorandum of Cooperation should have
been more explicitly formalized ­ including strengthening of the monitoring
indicators. This would have presented an opportunity to take stock of the extent
of the shift in the project goals and activities. An updated and strengthened set of
indicators would also have contributed to a more disciplined implementation of
the non-ICT components (and present less of a drag on this ex post analysis).

Notwithstanding the weakness of the project's monitoring and evaluation scheme,
it is worth noting that the CBAP evolved to lay the foundation for a powerful
M&E capability for the judicial sector has a whole ­ by no means a small
accomplishment.




                                       7

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

        As noted above, the project design was subject to a significant shift in its focus
        during course of implementation ­ from a focus on bankruptcy and commercial
        court capabilities towards a broad-based case management system for the whole
        judicial system. The dialog between the authorities and the Bank closely tracked
        this evolution in the focus ­ and the concerns for the various delays experienced
        by the CBAP.

        In retrospect, the May 2004 Mid-Term Review should have been an occasion to
        formally update the goals, indicators and activities under the CBAP ­ especially
        in light of the then "Unsatisfactory" ratings for implementation progress and
        development objectives.

        Subsequent to the Mid-Term Review, however, project performance sharply
        picked up ­ starting in 2005. This reflected the new focus on the ICMS, changes
        at the senior level of the MOJ, changes in the project management team, and the
        decentralization of the new Bank Task Team Leader to the Zagreb Office.

        While the CBAP finished on a strong upswing during 2005-7, it is necessary to
        note that the implementation period witnessed three Ministers of Justice, four
        different project management unit configurations, and four Task Team Leaders on
        the Bank side.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

        The initial M&E design was well aligned to the initial project design, with its
        focus on bankruptcy and (pilot) commercial courts. However, the 2003 shift in
        project focus to a unified court information support for the entire court system
        was not accompanied by an updating of the M&E framework. Accordingly, the
        original M&E framework was largely left to languish.

        In particular, the KPI for the PDO associated with commercial case backlog
        showed significant improvements (i.e., the backlog in the overall court system
        decline 60% by 2007 ­ exceeding the 50% end-of-project target at the commercial
        courts). However, this cannot be exclusively associated with the project activities.
        Rather, the increased attention to case backlog across the entire judicial system is
        more directly attributable to the broader policy engagement in the judicial system
        ­ of which the IDF, PAL, and CBAP were elements. The KPI associated with the
        legal framework for trustees/administrators and the professionalism of the
        commercial court judges and bankruptcy professionals were essentially untouched
        by the CBAP. This is due to the diminished focus on these areas, post-2003, and
        the subsequent limited implementation success of the relevant component
        activities.


                                               8

        At the level of the component output indicators, the M&E framework was
        somewhat more robust. The output indicators for the case management reforms
        were basically met if they were understood to refer to the broader court system
        (not just the commercial courts) and the pilots understood to refer to the
        somewhat different set of pilots actually undertaken. The output indicators for the
        legal information system were accomplished ­ and superseded in that the
        implementation was system-wide in the commercial courts. The system also
        encompassed the decisions of the Supreme Court, and not just of the High
        Commercial Court.

        The output indicators associated with the Regulatory Framework for Trustees and
        Administrators (Component C); the Upgrade of Skills of Bankruptcy
        Professionals (Component D); and the Insolvency and Legal Services Framework
        (Component E) were basically unachieved.

        The lack of an updated M&E framework also showed up in the indicator sections
        of the Implementation Status Results and Report ("ISRs"). This diminished this
        section of the ISR as an effective monitoring tool.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

        Chronic and serious instability in the borrower's project management and
        administration arrangements during 2002-2004, led to slow initial project progress.
        Due to initial limited in-house capacity of MOJ to implement donor-funded
        projects, a financial management function for CBAP was originally placed at
        another PMU at the Ministry of Finance. These arrangements did not prove
        successful. This led to a financial management rating of "Unsatisfactory" during
        late 2003 to mid 2005. This was upgraded to "Moderately Satisfactory" in mid-
        2005, reflecting the efforts of a new project management team that was put in
        place in mid-2004, including a well-qualified financial specialist. Changes in the
        composition of the Bank team during 2003-4 (TTL and Financial Management
        Specialist) may well have contributed to delays in resolutions of the financial
        management issues ­ although the ISR filed by the in-coming TTL in December
        2003 flagged the issue, which was subsequently tracked through the ISRs. The
        aide-mémoires of 2002-2004 also brought to the authorities' attentions problems
        with the project management arrangements (including split responsibilities
        between MOF and MOJ). These were eventually resolved in 2004 by the
        Croatian authorities, but only over a rather extended period.

        Notwithstanding the overall delays in the CBAP implementation, procurement
        never arose as a problem area, due in large measure to the project-financed
        experienced procurement consultant who assisted the PMU on all procurement
        related matters.




                                                 9

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

        As of January 2007, the MOJ was in the final stages of finalizing the ICMS
        software and moving the pilot implementations in the Municipal Court Pula and
        the Commercial Court Split into full operations. Subsequently, four more courts
        have been added to the pilot stage, including the Supreme Court and the High
        Commercial Court. Since the project closed on January 31, 2007, MOJ has
        provided own-budget financing for the services of the contractor responsible for
        development of ICMS until the end of 2007. This would allow MOJ to complete
        the pilot phase and ensure adequate maintenance of ICMS during the initial stage
        of its operation. It will also allow more time for training MOJ and court personnel
        to fully assume operation and maintenance of ICMS after the end of developer's
        contract. In June 2007, the MOJ expects the EU-financed contract for hardware
        to be awarded. This will provide the ICT for the national roll-out of the ICMS
        during 2007-2008.

        The available funding for the national roll out, the advanced state of the ICMS
        software, the extremely high interest among the judicial authorities for the court
        performance information that the ICMS will yield strongly suggest the CBAP
        investments in this area will be sustained and extended.

        In this regard, the authorities have requested ­ and the Bank has agreed to help
        prepare ­ a follow-on Judicial Reform Project (P104749) in the FY2007--2008
        lending program. Among other things, this will extend the scope and deployment
        of the ICMS. The key elements of the proposed follow-on operation include: (A)
        Strengthening judicial administration and court management; (B) Rationalization
        of the court network; and (C) Court automation, including document management,
        broader justice system connectivity, e-filing, and strengthen management
        reporting; and (D) Judicial Training. The third component builds directly on the
        CBAP-financed ICMS and Legal Information System. The first and second
        components build on, among other things, the performance-related information
        generated by the ICMS (as well as the CBAP-related IDF on judicial monitoring).
        The fourth component complements these activities and follows through on the
        gaps identified at the outset of the CBAP ­ although admittedly not advanced by
        the CBAP in any significant measure.

        Croatia's formal Accession Candidacy ­ and the prominence of judicial system
        problems in the EU dialog ­ strongly suggests that momentum in the area of
        judicial reform and capacity building is nearly assured. The Bank-MOJ
        partnership in this area that has evolved over the past seven years, together with
        shared concepts of judicial reform are, in many ways, the primary benefits from
        the CBAP. Similarly, the shared experience, lessons-learned, and capacities-built
        in "projectizing" judicial reforms (including donor coordination) are also



                                               10

        important benefits of the CBAP. These bode well for any planned follow-on
        partnership.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

        The original project objectives and design remains relevant to Croatia and the
        Bank's Country Partnership Strategy ­ whether this is taken "narrowly" in
        relation to bankruptcy and commercial court reforms and capacity building or
        taken broadly in terms of the entire court system.

        The performance on the broad court system is at center stage in Croatia's
        Accession process. Thus, it is a key element of the Bank's Accession-supporting
        Country Partnership Strategy. Moreover, notwithstanding the benefits of six
        years of strong economic growth, restructuring of the Croatian enterprise sector
        remains unfinished business and a risk to fiscal sustainability (via quasi-fiscal
        imbalances in the remaining state-owned enterprise sector). A capable and
        efficient commercial court system (and the broader bankruptcy framework)
        remains necessary for Croatia to complete the transition process.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

        The achievement of the PDO ­ as a result of the project activities ­ is low. This is
        true whether the CBAP is assessed in terms of the originally stated goals in
        relation to bankruptcy and commercial courts, or whether it is assessed in terms of
        the broader court system as the goals and activities evolved during project
        implementation. (Coincident with ­ but not attributable to ­ the CBAP
        bankruptcy case inflow has declined from nearly 30,000 in 2001 to 1,100 in 2005,
        while case resolution has risen from 7,663 in 2001 to 12,504 in 2003.)

        Nevertheless, the CBAP clearly fostered some important judicial reforms towards
        the end of the project period (with attendant reductions in case backlogs). It has
        also clearly set the stage for subsequent improvement in court performance and
        management ­ via the efficiencies and procedural controls embodied in the ICMS
        and via the leverage that credible court performance data can provide to the
        managers of the court system and to those who are shaping the reform process.
        This has manifested in, among other things, the Government's request for a stand-
        alone Judicial Reform Project (under preparation). Empirical evidence regarding
        judicial performance will also play a prominent role in Croatia's Accession dialog
        with the EU going forward.




                                                11

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

         N/A: Learning and innovation are not amenable to quantitative efficiency tests or
         to credible comparisons of counterfactuals.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

         As a narrowly defined project (i.e., specifically stated goals, inputs, outputs, time
         schedules), the CBAP is "Moderately Unsatisfactory". However, as an
         instrument to engage with the Croatian authorities (and USAID and EU
         development partners) in learning about judicial reform and capacity building and
         introducing innovative ways of addressing the identified issues and constraints,
         the CBAP was successful.

         Assessed in terms of the project components, the planned case management
         reforms may be deemed successful ­ when judged in relation to the broader court
         system (not just the initially targeted commercial courts) and in relation to a
         correspondingly different set of pilot sites. The legal information system
         activities were successful ­ even exceeded the initially planned implementations
         to cover all of the commercial courts and encompassed the decisions of the
         Supreme Court, and not just of the High Commercial Court. On the other hand,
         the Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators Component; the
         Upgrade of Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals Component; and the Insolvency
         and Legal Services Framework Component all significantly underperformed
         relative to expectations.

         In light of the importance of the main output of the project ­ the ICMS ­ and the
         synergies between CBAP, the IDF Grant for Judicial Monitoring, and the PAL
         program) which leveraged the Bank's interventions in the justice sector the
         overall outcome of the CBAP is "Moderately Satisfactory".

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

         N/A.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

         The institutional impact of the CBAP has been significant and is likely to become
         quite large. In large measure, this has arisen through the process of analyzing,
         formalizing and agreeing on court procedures in the course of developing the



                                               12

       ICMS (including agreements on concepts, nomenclature, coding schemes,
       document templates, etc.). This process entailed a large number of working
       groups meetings over an eighteen month period involving judges from the
       commercial and civil courts, country-wide. These generated the functional
       standards, and the actual business processes descriptions for each court. These, in
       turn, fed the technical requirements for the ICMS. These meetings were also
       instrumental in obtaining the judges' "buy-in" to the concept of ICMS and
       fostering their appetite for the benefits ICMS would deliver once deployed.

       Going forward, the impact of unified procedures and tools embodied in the ICMS
       (e.g., standard templates, formats and wordings) should have a powerful impact
       on the efficiency and uniformity of court performance. Most importantly, the
       availability of credible, timely and detailed information on virtually all court
       proceedings will have a profound effect on the behavior of court personnel and
       substantially foster evidence-based debates on judicial reform. ICMS-supported
       procedural innovations, such as random case assignment, will also have a positive
       impact on the integrity and credibility of the courts.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

       Given the exploratory nature of a Learning and Innovation Loan, it is hard to pin-
       point "unintended" outcomes. The broadening of the project focus from
       bankruptcy and commercial courts to the entire court system was, arguably not
       anticipated, nor was the narrowing of the focus of implementation activities on
       court information. Nevertheless, the LIL was expressly chosen as a first step in a
       broader engagement with the Croatian authorities in the area of the justice system
       ­ which in fact it successfully fostered.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

       None.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
       Rating: Low.

       The justice system's high profile in Croatia's EU Accession dialog, the CBAP-
       financed investments in judicial system monitoring capacity, and the proposed
       follow-on Bank-financed project all suggest that Croatia will most likely see a
       steady improvement in judicial performance (through judicial reforms and
       capacity building).

       The inherent conservatism demonstrated by judiciaries throughout the world, and
       Croatia's demonstrated conservatism in public employment reforms may well
       slow the judicial reform process. However, these are unlikely to halt or reverse
       the trend in the face of the above reform drivers.


                                                13

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
         Rating: Satisfactory.

         The targeted interventions in the bankruptcy and commercial courts were
         appropriate, given the recognized issues in the enterprise sector. The choice of a
         LIL was also appropriate as a flexible, first-step engagement with the Croatian
         authorities in the judicial system. The long implementation period also reflected a
         borrower that was inexperienced in the implementation of a Bank-financed
         investment operation ­ although this was an expressed reason to use a LIL and not
         undertake a broader judicial reform project at the outset.

         The project documentation suggests there was widespread appreciation of the
         need for judicial reform and improvements in judicial performance. In retrospect,
         it is hard to ascertain that the authorities' commitment to reform was most acute
         in the area of bankruptcy, and was likely to be sustained through the inevitable
         changes in government and the senior levels of the MOJ. To help insulate the
         CBAP from changes in policy directions, the preparation process did engage
         broad set of stakeholders (i.e., MOJ, presidents and judges of the pilot courts, the
         Bar Association, the Council of Judges, legal professionals from the private sector,
         representatives of the main creditors-the banks, representatives of trustees, the
         Chamber of Commerce, and the Zagreb Law Faculty).

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

         Bank supervision consistently highlighted the concerns regarding project
         management and actively sought to have these remedied. It also actively worked
         to accommodate the client's shift in the project goals (towards the broader court
         system and greater focus on court automation) and capitalize on the initiatives and
         resources of other development partners. The long implementation period,
         however, may reflect the exploratory nature of the LIL instrument and its
         application to learning and innovation in an institutional development setting.
         Supervision also led to the mobilization of an IDF grant on judicial performance
         monitoring. This, among other things, benefited the ICMS design and the PAL
         program.

         The absence of an updated M&E framework to reflect the shifting project goals
         and activities was a notable deficiency of supervision. This contributed to the
         drift of Components C, D, and E (i.e., Regulatory Framework for Trustees and
         Administrators Component; the Upgrade of Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals
         Component; and the Insolvency and Legal Services Framework Component).


                                                14

        During the 5 year implementation period, the leadership of the Bank team
        changed four times. Although this was not a positive feature, the fact that the last
        TTL was based in the Zagreb Country Office certainly helped to accelerate
        project implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

        As a LIL, the key determinant of Bank performance is Supervision. The flexible
        and accommodating posture of Supervision was appropriate and reasonably well-
        handled in a context where the Borrower was exploring the best way to advance
        reforms in a complex sector.

        However, the absence of a formally updated M&E framework ­ and a subsequent
        focus on its implementation ­ was a notable shortcoming of the overall Bank
        performance. As a result, much was accomplished in partnership with the
        Borrower (and the other development partners). But significant initiatives set out
        at the start of the CBAP went unrealized.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

        Slow progress to Project Effectiveness, due to protracted procedures of
        parliamentary ratification, (a bit over seven months from the date of Board
        Approval) and counterpart funding problems in early 2002 diminished somewhat
        the Government's overall performance in the CBAP. Subsequent government
        performance (i.e., after 2004) was satisfactory, with a sequence of supportive
        Ministers of Justice and a strongly engaged State Secretary of MOJ.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

        Starting with the problematic division of project management responsibilities
        between the MOF and MOJ, the MOJ consistently struggled to establish and
        maintain an effective project team (and an MOJ IT department to support the
        ICMS). In mid 2004, however, an effective project team was realized and a
        number of well-qualified specialists were hired into the PMU. The new team
        managed to establish close cooperation with the MOJ leadership, as well as
        effective working relationship with courts in and outside of Zagreb. Together
        with the shift of the focus to the ICMS for the entire court system, the CBAP
        achieved forward momentum in 2005, which it carried through into 2007.

        A false start (failed USAID-financed contract) for the functional design of the
        ICMS contributed to the overall delays in project implementation, which in the


                                              15

       case of the ICMS resulted in realization of the pilot ICMS only in mid-2007 ­
       after the project closing (using government and EU funding).

       The shift in project focus also led to the weak performance in Components C, D,
       and E (i.e., Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators Component;
       the Upgrade of Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals Component; and the
       Insolvency and Legal Services Framework Component). In large measure, the
       negative assessment of the performance in these areas reflects the absence of a
       formal restatement of the M&E framework, including the goals and intermediate
       outputs. Responsibility for this short coming must be shared by Bank Supervision,
       as the Mid-Term Review and various aide-mémoires acknowledged the shift in
       focus ­ but reiterated a hope that these activities and goals of these components
       would still be realized.

       Set against these short-comings, there were important accomplishments in
       establishing the conceptual, informational, and technological underpinnings for a
       broad-based reform process for the judicial system. Most notably this included
       the widely consultative process of establishing the functional requirements for the
       ICMS, the strengthening of the monitoring capacity for judicial performance, and
       the achievement of a broad recognition of the critical importance of detailed, real-
       time information on court performance. In terms of learning and innovation,
       these are quite significant results of the CBAP.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

       As a narrowly-defined project, with pre-specified goals, the CBAP did not
       perform particularly well. However, as an exploratory process to lay the ground
       work for a broader reform of the judicial sector, the Government productively
       used the CBAP and its relation with the Bank (USAID and the EU) to foster
       reforms in judicial responsibilities, attack the case backlog, and to set the stage for
       an evidence-based reform of court and case management as part of a follow-on
       reform program.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

       There may well be an inherent contradiction between the exploratory nature of the
       LIL instrument and the intended short implementation time table. This
       contradiction is especially active in an institutional development context (where
       the mechanisms are inherently complex, generally poorly understood, and of
       interest to many stakeholders). It is also likely to be active where the borrower
       does not have a demonstrated track record of implementing Bank-financed
       projects.



                                              16

        As a project that coalesced around information and information systems, the
        CBAP demonstrated the interplay between reform and information. Specifically,
        the strong reform intent of the original design was somewhat downplayed. In the
        process of developing the specifications for the case and court management
        system, major reforms in court organization and case flow models, including
        procedures codified in "the Book of Rules", were set aside as unrealistic. Instead,
        the ICMS largely stays within the existing regulatory framework. However, as
        concrete and unassailable evidence emerges as to the weaknesses and bottlenecks
        in court performance, the ICMS is expected to provide significant motivation to
        reform the framework (e.g., reallocation of staff resources among the in-take
        office, registrars, mailing room, archives, statistics office, etc.; the development of
        "case management teams" comprising judge, typist/secretary, and court clerk;
        changes in the system of serving notices; enforcement procedures; etc.). Such
        reforms would, in turn, need to be fed back into the ICMS design and the system
        subsequently updated. This iterative pattern of reform and information systems
        development is likely to manifest in a wide range of settings and not confined to
        the judicial sector.

7. Comments on draft ICR by the Borrower
(a) Borrower/implementing agency

The Ministry of Justice has reviewed the Implementation Completion Report, agrees with
its findings and has no comments.


(b) Cofinanciers

        In the 2004 Final Report on the Court Improvement Project (September 2000 ­
        April 2004), the USAID financed contractor ­ National Center for State Courts
        (NCSC) ­ highlighted a number of concerns for the success of the court
        automation effort in Croatia. These included: donor coordination, MOJ change
        management and IT management capacities, project and policy governance
        arrangements, training requirements, as well as needed changes in court
        procedures ("The Book of Rules").

        Subsequent to this 2004 Report, progress was made in most of these areas, as
        witnessed by the implementation of the ICMS pilots in Pula and Split and the
        High Commercial and Supreme Courts. Undeniably, there remains a significant
        unfinished business in the modernization of court procedures and practices (and
        court "culture"). This is a long term process, which the proposed Bank-financed
        follow-on project and policy dialog would support. Training and document
        management are also areas highlighted in the Report. These too form key
        elements of the proposed follow-on operation.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


                                             17

18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)   Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

1. COMMERCIAL COURT
ADMINISTRATION AND                             3.750          4.203         112.1%
CASE MANAGEMENT MODEL
2. LEGAL INFORMATION
SYSTEM                                         0.520          0.479          92.1%

3. REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK FOR
TRUSTEES AND                                   0.430          0.072          16.7%

ADMINISTRATORS
4. UPGRADING SKILLS OF
BANKRUPTCY                                     0.830          0.046          5.5%
PROFESSIONALS
5. INSOLVENCY AND
DISPUTE RESOLUTION                             0.130          0.00           0.0%
FRAMEWORK
6. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                          0.380          0.941         247.6%


            Total Baseline Cost                6.040

Physical Contingencies                         0.000

Price Contingencies                            0.910
             Total Project Costs               6.950          5.741          82.6%
Project Preparation Fund                       0.000
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.050          0.050         100.0%
      Total Financing Required                 7.000          5.791          82.7%




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                             2.00          0.912        45.6%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                      5.00          4.879        97.6%




                                            19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component A. Commercial Court Administration and Case Management Model

Procurement of IT equipment for pilot courts. First set of equipment for commercial
courts in Split and Rijeka (IS) was delivered and installed in early 2003. Equipment for
commercial courts in Zagreb, Osijek, Varazdin and High Commercial Court in Zagreb
was procured and delivered by the end of 2003 and for commercial courts in Sisak,
Sibenik, Zadar, Dubrovnik, Slavonski Brod, Karlovac, Bjelovar by the end of 2004. Part
of the equipment was laptops for judges. The number of judges who were using
computers in every-day work was significantly increased.


                                                                         6. Estimated dates

                                                   Final cost
                                                    (US$*)
                    Description                    including                           Contract
                                                   VAT (GoC     Contract signing      completion
                                                  contribution)                    (implementation)




 Emergency package of computer equipment                          21.2.2003            7.5.2003
 (excl. servers) for 2 pilot courts (re-bidding)      100.543


                                                                  2.10.2003            9.1.2004
 Computer equipment (excl. servers) for 5 pilot
 courts & HCC in Zagreb                               500,198     30.9.2003            3.3.2004
                                                                  2.10.2003            25.5.2004
                                                                 12.01.2007.          30.01.2007.
 HW and/or Standard SW for ICMS needs                 168,950


                                                                  21.7.2005            10.10.2005
 HW (IT equipment) and SW licenses for
 commercial courts to access LIS                      309,440     25.7.2005            30.9.2005




Basic IT Training. Pilot commercial courts in Rijeka and Split finished the training in
June 2003 with full success (financed by USAID). IT trainings in commercial courts in
Osijek Varazdin, Zagreb and the High Commercial Court were finished in January 2005
also with full success. The trainings were organized mostly in the courts. Groups were
composed of the people responsible for the same job and with the same level of
knowledge, to ensure motivated trainees.

IT training at all other commercial courts concluded by the beginning of 2006. Over 500
people were successfully trained.



                                                 20

                                                                             6. Estimated dates

                                                       Final cost
                                                        (US$*)
                    Description                        including                            Contract
                                                       VAT (GoC     Contract signing       completion
                                                      contribution)                      (implementation)




                                                                       7.1.2004             5.3.2004
 Basic IT training for commercial court staff
 (Osijek, Zagreb (HCC/CC) & Varazdin).                      18,008    8.11.2004             15.12.2004
                                                                       1.5.2005             1.7.2005
                                                                      14.11.2005            21.02.2006
 Basic IT training for staff of other commercial
 courts (7 courts)                                          26,093




Integrated Court Case Management System. The ICMS is an integrated IT application for
registering and tracking data pertaining to court cases. As a uniform application covering
all types of proceedings for all courts, the ICMS is administered from central location.
When fully implemented, it will represent a "backbone" for all existing and future IT
applications in the justice sector.




                                FINANCE
                                                                            ELEKTRONIC
                                                                                FILING

                              ACCOUNTING                                     DOCUMENT
                                                                           MANAGEMENT

             ICMS          ACCOU                   STANDARDIZED               INTERNET
                            NTING               FORMS/TEMPLATES                PORTAL

                                                    STATISTICS              ELECTRONIC
                                                                                DATA
                                                                             INTERFACE
                       CASE TRACKING AND MANAGEMENT                            (POLICE,
                                                                            PROSECUTIO
                                                                              N, PRISON
                                                                            SYSTEM, TAX
                                                                               SYSTEM,
                                                                             LAWYERS,
                                                                            BANKS, ETC)

                                        INTEGRATION                         E-LEARNING

                        BULK PRINTING    INTERFACES    OTHER DATA
                                                         BASES




ICMS ­ users/benefits:
        The Supreme Court, Ministry of Justice
        ·        Support to decision making.
        ·        Reliable data on functioning of the judicial system.




                                                   21

       Court presidents
       ·       Precise data needed for court management and case-flow management
               (e.g., information on dynamics of business processes: length of
               proceedings, activities, "bottlenecks", personnel management. etc.)

       Judges
       ·       Real time, precise information needed for case management (e.g., case
               status, activities, participants, deadlines, etc.).
       ·       Reduction of administrative burden, standardized tools, such as document
               templates.

       Court Clerks
       ·       Standardized, consistent and automated tools for registering all data and
               actions throughout the proceedings.

       Parties and citizens
       ·       More efficient and transparent justice


A short history of the ICMS effort:
   · Development of Functional Specifications ­ based on in-depth screening of legal
       and administrative processes in the courts, during 2001-3 (involving prominent
       judges and MOJ experts, as well as USAID, US National Council of State Courts,
       EU CARDS)
   · Tender documentation (600 pages), during 2003-4 (involving MOJ, IBRD, EU
       CARDS experts)
   · Procurement, negotiation, contracting, during May 2004 ­ June 2005.
   · Contract signed on July 1, 2005.
   · ICMS developed and implemented in Municipal Pilot Court in Pula, by January
       2007.
   · Piloted in Municipal Court Zagreb, Commercial Court Split, and Commercial
       Court Zagreb, by May 2007.
   · Future plans:
       · Roll-out, business process analysis and reengineering for seventy additional
           courts, by late 2009.
       · Electronic filling and communication with parties.
       · Interface with other governmental systems.
       · Document management.




                                              22

         Step I                                                           Step II                                                              Step III
       4 months                                                        14 months                                                             12 months
                                                                         ICMS


 1.7.2005                               1.4.2006                                            1.10.2006                                                1.1.2008
  Contract                            Delivery 1:                                          Delivery 3:                                         Implementation on:
   signing                                                                                                                                     - Municipal Court
                          · Administration of courts, parties and                 · Civil litigation proceedings ­                             Zagreb
                                    procedural activities;                               commercial courts;                                    - Commercial Court
                         · First instance criminal proceedings on                 · Non-litigant proceedings (ex-                 31.1.200     Split
                                municipal and county courts;                        parte) ­ commercial courts;                                - Commercial Court
                           · Appellate proceedings (criminal) on                                                           Implementation:
                                                                                   · High Commercial Court ­                                   Zagreb
                                       county courts;                                                                     · Municipal Court
                                                                                   appellate proceedings based on
                          · Criminal proceedings on the Supreme                                                                   Pula         - County Court
                                                                                               all above;
                                   Court (I, II i III instance).                                                                               Zagreb
                                                                                 · The Supreme Court ­ appellate                               - County Court Pula
                                                                                   and revision proceedings based
                                     Core general                                                                                              - High Commercial
                                                                                              on all above.
                                    functionalities                                                                                            Court
                                                                      1.7.2006                                                                 - Supreme Court
                1.11.2005                                                           Advanced general
                                                                                        functionalities               1.12.2006
                Detailed                                           Delivery 2:
               specifications                                                                                        Delivery 4:
               adjusted and                      · Bankruptcy proceedings ­ commercial courts;
                                                       · Company register ­ commercial courts;
             finalized, with all                                                                         · Civil litigation proceedings (all) ­
                                                      · Commercial misdemeanor proceedings ­                         municipal courts;
              changes to be                                       commercial courts;                       · Ex-parte proceedings (all) ­
               made to the                      · High Commercial Court ­ appellate proceedings                      municipal courts;
                                                                   based onl above ;
             original Austrian                                                                           · Enforcement ­ municipal courts;
                                                   · The Supreme Court ­ appellate and revision         · Appellate proceedings based on all
                 solution                                   proceedings based on all above.                     above ­ county courts;
                                                                                                       · The Supreme Court ­ all proceedings
                                                                Extended core general                                based on above.
                                                                   functionalities

                                                                                                              Advanced general
                                                                                                                 functionalities




                                                                                                                           6. Estimated dates

                                                                                Final cost
                                                                                   (US$*)
                      Description                                               including                                                            Contract
                                                                                VAT (GoC                 Contract signing                          completion
                                                                             contribution)                                                     (implementation)




Development and implementation of case                                                                        01.07..2005                           31.1.2007
and court management software and training                                        3,377,400                                                         continuing
for all pilot courts.
                                                                                                               16.8.2004                            29.03.2006
Implementation supervision of ICMS
(International IT Expert)                                                             56,077




Component B. Legal Information System

The Supreme Court (SC) of Croatia. A legal information system for publishing all
decisions of the Supreme Court (Obnova 1999) was developed. The first results came in



                                                                        23

late September 2003. Members of the Working Group were invited to attend the
presentation of the results and provided their comments. Based on the comments of the
Working Group, a web application was finalized in late December 2003. This system is
operational. Presently, the Supreme Court is entering all legacy decisions of the Court.

High Commercial Court web-page and CPS application. The web page was finalized in
October 2004 ­ in time for celebration of 50th anniversary of commercial courts. The
system publishes the decisions of the High Commercial Court. CPS application for
internal judicial practice (case law) was developed during 2005. Prior to the
implementation of CPS, 30% of judges of HCC were using computers. Two years later,
95% of judges of HCC are using computers in everyday work. Previously, court case-
law was only available in paper version, and only two people from the court had practical
access the information. Now, judicial practice is available to everyone, on two clicks,
with various search possibilities (e.g., by terms, by law and keyword search).


                                                                       6. Estimated dates

                                                 Final cost
                                                   (US$*)
                   Description                    including                          Contract
                                                 VAT (GoC     Contract signing      completion
                                                contribution)                     (implementation)




                                                                 30.9.2004           15.01.2006
 Development of High Commercial Court
 website and entering legacy data into the          109,234
 system, training for commercial court staff




Component C. Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators

Following substantial changes and reversions of the legal basis for trustees and
administrators, the activities under this component were integrated with Component D.

Component 4. Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals

Judiciary Training Needs Assessment. In May 2003, an individual expert was contracted.
The assessment, TOR for the training in bankruptcy area, and a Final Report was
submitted in September 2003.

Bankruptcy Training. In February 2006, international experts were contracted to design
an education program for judges and bankruptcy trustees and to assist the Ministry of
Justice develop the legal, regulatory and implementation framework for trustees. Due to
contract performance problems, only a Croatia-EU gap analysis of regulatory and
implementation framework for bankruptcy judges and trustees was completed. The



                                              24

analyses were provided to Judicial Academy and High Commercial Court which
distributed it to all commercial courts.

Literature for Commercial Courts. High Commercial Court prepared the list of useful
books for the commercial court libraries. In 2005, these were delivered to High
Commercial Court and then distributed them to all commercial courts.


                                                                        6. Estimated dates

                                                  Final cost
                                                   (US$*)
                   Description                    including                           Contract
                                                  VAT (GoC     Contract signing      completion
                                                 contribution)                    (implementation)




                                                                 25.2.2006            25.1.2007
International bankruptcy expert (incl. training
for trustees / administrators)                         71,628

Training Needs Assessment for judges and
administrative staff                                   45,710    20.5.2003            22.9.2003

                                                                 11.2.2005            21.2.2005
Purchase of books (legal literature)                   16,440
                                                                 10.2.2005            21.2.2005



Component E. Insolvency and Legal Services Framework

No activities were undertaken.

Component F. Project Management

The PMU underwent substantial change in personnel over the course of the CBAP,
although from mid-2004 it was stable (and productive). The staff included:

    · Project Manager/Coordinator (PMU Director)
    · Project Officer (Deputy Project Manager)
    · IT expert
    · Interpreter
    · Office Manager/PM Assistant
    · Financial manager
    · International Procurement Advisor
    · International IT Expert

                   Description                    Final cost            6. Estimated dates
                                                   (US$*)      Contract signing       Contract
                                                  including                          completion
                                                  VAT (GoC
                                                 contribution)                    (implementation)




                                               25

PMU                                            850.263
                                                   6.367  23.7.2004     15.9.2004
                                                 10.889    1.5.2005     30.6.2005
Project audits
                                                 10.980    1.6.2006     30.6.2006
                                                 10.980   31.12.2006    31.02.2007
Training /study tours for PMU staff              15.000        -        31.12.2006
Procurement advisor (2003/2005 - K.
Ermakovic)                                       80.100    7.6.2003     31.7.2005

Procurement advisor (2006 - extension)           15.000    1.8.2005     31.12.2006
Project Manager/coordinator
(2002/15.05.2003 - M. Sladovic)                 182.900   10.2.2002     15.15.2003

Project Manager/coordinator
(15.05/31.08.2003 - S. B.-Kvaternik)             11.082   15.5.2003     31.8.2003

Project Manager/coordinator
(08.2004/01.2005 - M. Augustinovic)              23.171    1.8.2004     31.1.2005

Acting Project Manager (04.2005-/07/2005 -
T. Prenda-Trupec)                                23.531    1.4.2005     31.7.2005

Project Manager (08.2005-01.2007 - T.
Prenda-Trupec)                                   70.963    1.8.2005     31.1.2007

Financial Manager (10.01.2005/03.2005)             3.373  1.12.2004     31.3.2005
Financial Manager (04.2005/07.2005 -
amended contract)                                  8.644   1.4.2005     31.7.2005

Financial Manager (08.2005/01.2007 -
extension)                                       37.402    1.8.2005     31.1.2007

IT Specialist / acting Project Manager
(05.2003/07.2004 - M. Augustinovic)              52.388   19.5.2003     31.7.2004

IT Specialist (08.2004/03.2005 - T. Prenda-
Trupec)                                          33.281   26.7.2004     31.3.2005

IT Specialist (02.2006/01.2007 - Ivan Lez)       34.477   20.3.2006     31.1.2007
Project Officer (07.2004/03.2005 - N.
Vukadinovic)                                     25.186   26.7.2004     31.3.2005

Project Officer (04.2005/07.2005 - N.
Vukadinovic - amended Contract)                  16.808    1.4.2005     31.7.2005

Project Officer (08.2005/01.2007 - extension)    72.726    1.8.2005     31.1.2007
Office Manager (07.2004/10.2004 - S. Biber)        5.397  26.7.2004     22.10.2004
Office Manager (15.01.2005/07.2005 - S.
Bjelica)                                         12.486   15.12.2004    31.7.2005

Office Manager (08.2005/01.2007 - extension)     33.246    1.8.2005     31.1.2007
Administrative Assistant / Interpreter
(05.2003/01.2004 - M. Postonjski)                13.853   23.5.2003     31.1.2004

Interpreter (11.2004/03.2005 - J. Kljajic)       10.119   15.11.2004    31.7.2005
Interpreter (09.2005/01.2007)                         0        -            -
Emergency translation services (ICMS TOR)          3.298   3.6.2004     15.6.2004
Ad-hoc translation services for PMU              26.618   29.3.2006     31.12.2006




                                             26

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                        27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                 Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Frances M. Allen         Operations Analyst                  LEGJR Project Implementation
Lubomira Beardsley       Senior Counsel                      LEGJR TTL-inception
Gerhard Botha            Sr Financial Sector Spec.           ECSPF Bankruptcy
Michael Gascoyne         Senior Resource Management Off     CSRRM Financial Mgmt.
Irina Kichigina          Senior Counsel                     LEGEC TTL-closing
Kathy Lalazarian         Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist  ECSPE Public Sector
Mirela Mart              Financial Management Specialist     ECSPS Financial Mgmt.
Katarina Mathernova      Senior Counsel                     LEGEC TTL-interim
Friedrich Peloschek      Lead Counsel (retired)             LEGEC TTL-interim
Alexey Proskuryakov      Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist      LEGJR Public Sector
Antonia G. Viyachka      Procurement Officer                 ECSPS Procurement



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY99                                                                 34.55
   FY00                                      61                        163.26
   FY01                                      28                         94.14
   FY02                                                                  0.00
   FY03                                                                  0.00
   FY04                                                                  0.00
   FY05                                                                  0.00
   FY06                                                                  0.00
   FY07                                                                  0.00
                        Total:               89                        291.95
Supervision/ICR
   FY99                                                                  0.00
   FY00                                                                  0.63
   FY01                                                                  1.22
   FY02                                      20                        105.43
   FY03                                      16                         93.21
   FY04                                      19                        100.66
   FY05                                       8                         40.64


                                          28

FY06               10     49.61
FY07                5     32.24
        Total:     78    423.64




                 29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Experience of Court Users in the Republic of Croatia: Survey Results

SURVEY METHODOLOGY
      A survey was commissioned by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia
      and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and was conducted during the
      period November 13 ­ 24, 2006.
      A total of 1,930 court users took part in the survey: 1,361 users of municipal
      courts, 181 users of county courts, 294 users of misdemeanor courts, and 94 users
      of commercial courts.
      The survey of users of municipal courts was conducted at a total of 50 courts. The
      courts were chosen according to two criteria: municipal courts in county seats
      were automatically included in the survey, while the remaining 29 municipal
      courts were chosen at random. The total number of respondents from each of the
      50 municipal courts who were to be surveyed was defined proportionally,
      according to the number of cases conducted at the given municipal court during
      the previous year, with some minor adjustments. These adjustments were aimed at
      decreasing the number of respondents from the Zagreb Municipal Court in favor
      of the smallest courts, so as to ensure a minimum quota of 10 users from the
      smallest courts.
      The survey of users of county courts was conducted at eight county courts. Again,
      the courts were chosen according to two criteria: the four largest county courts
      (Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek) were included automatically, while the
      remaining four were chosen at random from among all other county courts. The
      quotas for each county court were distributed arbitrarily, based on an estimate of
      the relative size of the courts. The largest number of respondents were surveyed at
      the Zagreb County Court (50), followed by the three other largest county courts
      (30 each), while 15 or fewer respondents were surveyed at all of the remaining
      courts.
      The survey of users of misdemeanor courts was conducted at a total of 15 courts
      chosen randomly. The number of users of each court who were to be surveyed
      was determined arbitrarily, with the aim of reflecting the relative size of the courts.
      The largest number of respondents were surveyed at the Zagreb Misdemeanor
      Court (86), while the number of respondents from other misdemeanor courts
      varied between 9 and 42 users.
      The survey of users of commercial courts was conducted at the four largest
      commercial courts, i.e. those in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. The number of
      respondents from each court was determined arbitrarily, with the aim of reflecting
      the relative size of the courts.

      Court users were defined as parties in court proceedings, witnesses in court
      proceedings, and legal representatives of parties in court proceedings.



                                            30

   Respondents belonging to these categories were recruited by Puls personnel as
   they exited the court building, after having finished all their business in the court.
   If more than one court user exited the building simultaneously, those to be
   surveyed were chosen at random. Only one respondent from one side in any
   proceedings could be recruited to participate in the survey. Thus, if a witness for
   one party in the given proceedings was engaged to participate, neither the party
   nor his attorney could be engaged.
   In order to ensure the anonymity of participants in the survey, respondents
   completed the questionnaire by themselves in a place which ensured them a sense
   of anonymity. Prior to this, they were given detailed instructions by Puls
   personnel concerning the contents of the questionnaire and how to complete it.
   The number of attorneys to be surveyed was determined in advance, which means
   that their participation was not in proportion to their share in the overall number
   of court users.
   The number of refusals to participate in the survey was considerably high in some
   courts. This was the case above all in the Zagreb Municipal Court. While a total
   of 570 respondents were surveyed, somewhat more than 1,500 court users who
   were contacted refused to take part. In smaller courts, the number of refusals was
   significantly less, relative to the number of completed questionnaires.
   Considering the circumstances in which the survey was conducted, it was not
   possible to assess the reasons for refusal. Therefore, it is also not possible to
   determine to what extent the reasons for refusal were connected with the subject
   of the survey, nor to what extent these refusals may have affected the
   representativeness of the survey sample.
   It is important to emphasize that the representativeness of the sample obtained
   cannot be assessed, given the fact that there are no relevant data on the size and
   structure of the court user population. Moreover, the very method by which the
   survey was conduct ed, the number of refusals to take part in it, and the use of a
   priori quotas reduced the randomness of the sample, thereby making it impossible
   to project the structure of this sample onto the overall structure of the court user
   population.
   The results shown for the total sample should be taken with caution, since the
   proportion of users of a given type of court does not necessarily correspond to the
   actual proportion of users of each of the four types of courts. For this reason, it is
   advisable to examine the results for each individual type of court as well.
   In general, the results of this survey should be taken with a certain amount of
   reserve, in view of these remarks concerning the type and characteristics of the
   sample.


SUMMARY OF SURVEY RESULTS

   Responding to an open question about positive factors in the court they had just
   visited, the majority of respondents (around 62%) spontaneously mentioned polite
   staff as a positive factor. Besides politeness, a small number of respondents cited




                                         31

the speed and accuracy with which cases are resolved as a positive side of the
court (less than 5%).
Responding to an open question about shortcomings and negative factors in the
court, a majority of respondents (19%) spontaneously mentioned slowness and
inefficiency. Most of the other answers referred to the furnishing and appearance
of the premises and the building.
The majority of court users were satisfied with their level of access to the court.
No less than 70% of respondents stated that they were satisfied with the court's
proximity and accessibility. Likewise, the majority of users were satisfied with
the court's working hours. Users were less satisfied with their level of telephone
access to judges and court personnel, the appearance and furnishing of the
premises, and the speed with which proceedings were concluded. More than 40%
of users stated that court proceedings were conducted with unnecessary delays.
The number of users who were satisfied with the condition and furnishing of the
court building was equal to the number of those who were not (about one-third).
Users of commercial and misdemeanor courts were more satisfied with their
ability to contact court personnel by telephone and the speed with which cases
were resolved.
The majority of court users were satisfied with all aspects of judges' work. The
most satisfactory characteristics ­ for around 70% of the respondents ­ were
judges' proper conduct, clearness of expression, and respect for procedure. Users
were least satisfied with judges' efficiency and preparedness, although the
majority of respondents were satisfied with these aspects of judges' work as well.
Ratings for judges on almost all characteristics were somewhat higher among
users of misdemeanor courts than among users of other courts.
It is interesting that parties who won a dispute had somewhat higher confidence in
judges than parties who lost a dispute. A significant difference was also evident
where impartiality and fairness were concerned. However, these differences were
not diametrically opposed. On average, parties who lost a dispute also gave judges
a good rating on these characteristics.
Users were satisfied with court personnel in all characteristics.
Users were mostly satisfied with the clarity of court documents and orientation in
court buildings. However, users were considerably less satisfied with the
condition and furnishing of court buildings and their premises. Of all the
characteristics assessed, the respondents were least satisfied with these aspects.
In view of the foregoing, it is no surprise that courts and their work were rated
relatively highly. On average, courts received a rating of "3+", with 3.3 as the
mean rating given by all respondents to all courts. 35% of court users gave a
rating of 3, while another 32% gave a rating of 4. The "excellent" rating was
given by 11% of users, while "unsatisfactory" was given by only 8%.
Commercial and misdemeanor courts received somewhat higher average ratings
than municipal and county courts. The lowest ratings were given to courts by the
oldest respondents and those with secondary or higher education.
Respondents from Zagreb and its vicinity and those from Dalmatia gave courts
lower than average ratings.




                                      32

In order to gain a complete picture of court users' opinion of courts, we also
examined the respondents' confidence in individual institutions. The results of the
survey indicate that court users have the greatest confidence in the Croatian Army
and the Church, and the least confidence in political parties and the government.
These results are comparable with results for the population in general. What is
surprising, however, is the fact that court users have significantly higher
confidence in courts than the general population. For while 57% of court users
stated that they have confidence in courts, only one third of Croatia's general
population has such confidence!
This result may be interpreted in several different ways. On the one hand, it may
be assumed that lawsuits are brought by people who have confidence in courts'
objectivity and impartiality, while others, who lack such confidence, will not seek
to resolve their disputes in court. On the other hand, this result may be interpreted
as a consequence of experience. For it could be said that court users have more
confidence in courts because they have their own personal experience, while those
who do not have their own experience base their picture of courts on general
impressions received from the media, which, of course, feature only exceptional
instances of court activities that are of interest to the media, and these are usually
negative.
Which of these two explanations is correct is difficult to determine based on the
results of this survey.




                                       33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

None.




                                  34

Annex 7. Borrower's ICR


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



                                Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Justice

          COURT AND BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATION PROJECT

                        PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT, Savska cesta 41/16, 10000 ZAGREB, Croatia
           Telephone: +385-(0)1-6113284, 6130595, 6130594, Fax: +385-(0)1-6314371; Email: cbap@pravosudje.hr




                                PROJECT FINAL REPORT

        CROATIA - COURT AND BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                   (Loan No. 4613-HR)

                                      21 APRIL 2007.




                                              35

1.    INTRODUCTION

    1.1. Project objectives

The broad objective of the Project is to improve upon the existing legal and judicial framework by
making it more efficient, transparent, and responsive to the needs of the public at large and of
the private sector in particular. The Project's immediate objective is to advance orderly insolvency
proceedings while:

                (a) Modernizing and automating selected commercial courts;

                (b) Increasing the professionalism and competence of judges and other
                     staff of the commercial courts and bankruptcy trustees;

                (c) Improving access to relevant legal information; and

                (d) Enhancing the understanding of the insolvency concept.


    1.2. Background


In 1999 the Government of Croatia received a PHRD grant for the preparation of the Courts and
Bankruptcy Administration Project (hereinafter referred to as "CBAP" or "Project").             The
Government utilized the PHRD grant to develop the basic model for the courts' modernization
and case management, to assess training needs of the commercial judges, and to build capacity
for the project implementation phase; all this, with the assistance of local and foreign
consultants.

In the year 2000, the Project was developed to address the institutional constraints that halted
the effective operation of the Bankruptcy system. The Project is meant to support a rapid
intervention, while providing an opportunity to learn about the institutional environment in a way
that would enhance a broader subsequent reform agenda. Depending on the results of the
Project, the Government and the Bank may proceed with a broader legal and judicial reform
project.

The Project was developed together with the Government of Croatia (GoC) and the USAID. The
Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project is financed out of:

    -   IBRD Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) in the amount of US$5 million (Loan
        Agreement # 4613-HR). The project was appraised in December of 2000 and negotiated
        in February/March, 2001. The 3rd of July 2001, the Board of Executive Directors of the
        IBRD approved the LIL and representatives of the Government of Croatia and the IBRD
        signed the legal documents of the project. The Loan became effective on 29 January
        2002;

    -   USAID Grant. The scope of support to be provided by USAID is indicated in the
        Memorandum of Understanding between the MOJ and the USAID (contribution is about
        US$1.5 million);

    -   Proceeds of the GoC that are used to cover the project portion representing Croatian
        taxes.



                                                 36

The Project was scheduled for completion in three and half years, but prolonged and finished on
31st January 2007.

There was also an IDF Grant in the amount of US$ 350.000 (Grant Agreement # TF 052014)
for institutional capacity building for monitoring judicial efficiency. The Grant agreement was
signed on May 30, 2003.




    1.3. Implementation Arrangements.

The responsibility for overall implementation of the Project rested with the Ministry of Justice
(MOJ). Other entities responsible were the courts selected to pilot project' activities, all first-
instance commercial courts and High Commercial Court in Zagreb, the second-instance court of
Zagreb, Municipal Court Zagreb and Municipal Court Pula. Close cooperation with the Chamber of
Commerce and its regional offices in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka was required for establishing
regional resource canters for trustees. Advisory Council co-chaired by the Deputy Minister of
Justice (State Secretary) reviewed the key project documents and were responsible for the
strategic decisions regarding the overall direction of the project and its integration into the
economic reform. The Advisory Council comprises representatives from the Government, courts,
private sector, trustees, Bar Association, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Craftsmen, and Law
Faculty.

The Project Management Unit (PMU) in MOJ was responsible for day-to-day project
administration, including procurement, preparing requests for disbursements and project
monitoring and reporting. The PMU/MOJ was established under the Order of the MOJ dated 7
January 2002, the Project Coordinator was appointed on 8 January 2002.

Disbursements itself were handled by the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Finance
(PIU/MOF).




    2. GENERAL INFORMATION


    2.1. Events that affected the project implementation

The elections which took place in November 2003 resulted in change of the previous government
coalition that had been formed after previous elections in January 2000. These changes resulted
in some structural changes within the Government that also affected the previous MOJ, organized
before as the Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local and Self-Government and is then split
and changed into two governmental bodies, The Ministry of Justice and separate Administration
and Local Self-Government governmental office.

The Management of the new Ministry of Justice has been also changed and it has a new Lady
Minister, Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, than a new State Secretary, Mrs. Snjezana Bagi who took a
role similar to the previous Deputy Minister's. There were also several new Assistant Ministers
which replaced the old ones that had to leave the MOJ during first three months of 2004.
Splitting the old MOJ into the new one without the Administration and Local Self ­ Government,




                                                37

the Government of Croatia achieved to make the MOJ much more propulsive then the previous
one was used to be.

The new Lady Minister took the main and proactive role with regard to the ICMS Project and
therefore was fully dedicated to the CBAP Project.
In the beginning of 2006, new Lady Minister, Mrs. Ana Lovrin was appointed from the
Government, and she continued all the activities and stayed active in ICMS implementation.
During all this period sponsor of the project was State Secretary, very active in making everyday
decisions, supporting the project very strongly on all levels, helping in all operations.

These changes put the MOJ in the position to frequently change the Head Chef of the MOJ IT
Department - four times during the project, so it was CBAP PMU who becomes MOJ partner in
making strategies, presentations, coordinating projects and consulting in general. During times,
MOJ recognized this situation and trying constantly to strengthen the IT Department. The level of
an importance of the IT Department was increased reorganizing it such as IT Sector Unit, with
higher relevance and of course responsibility. The IT Sector Unit has now some additional
experts defined to be fulfilled with to enable the MOJ to takeover more IT tasks on daily basis
and ICMS in the future.

    2.2.   Advisory Council and Working groups

As stipulated in Annex 5 Item 1(a) of the Loan Agreement between Republic of Croatia and
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Washington dated July 3rd, 2001; Law
on confirmation ­ «Official Gazette - International Contracts», number 14/2001) the Advisory
Council is meant to be as for supervision and implementation of the Courts and Bankruptcy
Administration Project. On March 17th, 2003 the MOJ announced the Advisory Council members.

Also, on May 27th 2003MOJ established two Working Groups:

    1. The first Working Group consists of 12 judges from the various courts in Varazdin, Split,
         Osijek Rijeka and Zagreb. The main role and tasks appointed to this WG were with
         regard to the CBAP component C: Regulatory Framework for Bankruptcy Trustees and
         Administrators and component D: Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals.
    2. The second Working Group consists of 19 judges from the various courts in Varazdin,
         Split, Osijek Rijeka and Zagreb. The main role and tasks appointed to this WG were with
         regard to the CBAP component A: Commercial Court Administration and Case
         Management Model and component B: Legal Information System

Both WG participated and helped the AC, the PMU and the NCSC (National Centre for State
Courts), the USAID consultant who was chosen and financed by the USAID to finalize the ICMS
Functional Specification Development needs. The WG cooperation was a great help for the NCSC
team, as well as for the PMU and the WB too. A lot of comments, recommendations and
decisions were given and instructed by the members of both WG which helped the NCSC to
prepare their final ICMS Functional Specifications Document in late March 2004 acceptable by the
MOJ and the WB.

In August 2005, after signing a contract for ICMS development, work groups were formed in
Municipal Court Zagreb, Commercial Court Zagreb, County Court Zagreb, High Commercial Court
and Supreme Court to go through, verify and upgrade functional specifications according to real
needs and make use cases and workflows. Also, they were testing the ICMS application through
development and before final acceptance.
Verification body was formed from participants of these work groups, pilot courts, MOJ and PMU
to solve all the issues, confirm and accept all deliverables.



                                                 38

    2.3. ICT Strategy

ICT Strategy was built in the beginning of 2005 (led by PMU Project Manager), and Government
of Croatia adopted it as a part of global Judicial Reform Strategy in September 2005 (as part of
global Strategy - Measures 86-93 of the Action Plan).

Main goals of IST Strategy are:

    · Faster resolving of court cases and records (and monitoring) of case status.
    · Transparency of court activities and decisions through availability of general information
         and information on case status, as well as decisions through presentation of case law.
    · Availability of data from the registries maintained by courts (Company Registry of the
         Commercial Court, Property registration departments of municipal courts), from the
         registries maintained by the Ministry of justice (criminal and misdemeanor records).
    · More efficient office activities of the Ministry, courts and other bodies of the judicial
         system.
    · Support to decision-making and control of the judicial management.
    · Real time linkage and data exchange by electronic means with other government
         administration bodies, primarily with the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Foreign
         Affairs and European Integration, Ministry of Finance and the Government of RC.
    · Raising the general level of security and control of operations within judicial bodies.

Information and communication system must ensure long-term functioning and be set in such a
way to be flexible enough to remain efficient during all future changes of organization of
government administration, regulations relating to the work of judiciary and surrounding aspects
(laws, decrees, court rules of procedure, implementation instructions, joining the EU, reform of
judiciary etc.)

To achieve these goals, the ICT system should be:

    · Integrated ­ One, uniform application for all courts
    · Centralized ­ Managed and administered from one place
    · Independent
    · User friendly ­ to be used by judges and court employees with variuos degrees of IT
         knowledge
    · Flexible ­ to allow quick adjustments to the changes in environment (legal,
         technological)
    · Secure and reliable

All activities in CBAP project and were performed fully in line with MOJ ICT Strategy and previous
mentioned goals and standards. As a "backbone" for all existing and future IT applications in the
Judiciary building ICMS is one of the most important part ICS Strategy.


    3. STATUS OF ACTIVITIES BY COMPONENT

    3.1. Component 1. Commercial Court Administration and Case                      Management
            Model

Procurement of IT equipment for pilot courts.




                                                 39

First set of equipment for commercial courts in Split and Rijeka (IS) was delivered and installed in
early 2003.

Equipment for commercial courts in Zagreb, Osijek, Varazdin and High Commercial Court in
Zagreb was procured and delivered by the end of 2003 and for commercial courts in Sisak,
Sibenik, Zadar, Dubrovnik, Slavonski Brod, Karlovac, Bjelovar by the end of 2004.

As the part of equipment were laptops for judges, and they were taking laptops home with them,
the number of judges who were using computers in every-day work was significantly increased.


Basic IT training

Pilot commercial courts in Rijeka and Split finished the training in June 2003 with full success
(financed by USAID).

IT trainings in Osijek Varazdin, Zagreb, the High Commercial Court were finished in January 2005
also with full success. The trainings were organized mostly in the courts, groups were composed
of the people responsible for the same job and with the same level of knowledge, so we had
motivated trainees.

IT trainings at all other commercial courts ended by the beginning of 2006, successfully and with
announcement that ICMS will come soon and they will need to have basic IT knowledge.

More than 500 people was trained under this component.




                                                40

Integrated Court Case Management System (ICMS ­ eSpis)




        Background

        As part of the effort to strengthen the judicial system, a major improvement of the court
and case management processes is envisaged.            The main objective for the Court and Case
Management program is to increase responsibility, accountability, efficiency and transparency in
the system.

        The Government of Croatia in cooperation with the World Bank and other donors has
decided to reform the country's court system. Though the long-term goal of the Government is to
overhaul the entire court system, the initial focus under this World Bank Project will be on
automation of court management procedures in four pilot courts. The proposed Integrated Court
Case Management Information System (ICMS) will assist with the registration of cases, trace the
movement of cases in courts, and provide detailed statistics as specified by the Government.


The main objectives of this component of the World Bank financed Project were:
         · Prepare specifications for a modern ICMS system
         · Design and implement an automated integrated court case management system;
         · Establish a well functioning reporting system in the courts;
         · Improve the computer skills of all court personnel;
         · Improve the electronic record keeping in the courts;
         · If necessary, improve the regulatory framework to handle all court cases.

        To fulfill these objectives, the newly developed ICMS was implemented in 2 pilots:
Municipal Court Pula and Commercial Court Split and will soon be implemented in Commercial
pilot Court in Zagreb and Municipal pilot Courts in Zagreb.

         Responsibility for overall implementation of the Project rested with the Management
Board of the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) of the Republic of Croatia which is responsible for steering
and directing the reform program and is chaired by the State Secretary in the MOJ. A Project
Management Unit in the MOJ (PMU) has been established to carry out the day-to-day Project
activities related to implementation of the Project. All technical issues were supervised by Ministry
of Justice own IT Sector and its Head Chief. The official(s) appointed by the Ministry of Justice
provided official sign-offs related to all deliverables. Final Acceptance of the ICMS was signed-off
by the State Secretary in the MOJ.


         Other entities responsible and/or involved in the Project implementation were: a Working
Group consisting of judges and court personnel whose task is to support the development of the
above mentioned Court and Case Management System and a Policy Advisory Committee
consisting of State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, four Assistant Ministers of Justice and four
judges which gives the overall policy guidance to the development of the integrated court case
management system.

Objectives for the development of Integrated Court Case Management Information System




                                                   41

       Since 1991 the Government has made significant changes in its legal and regulatory
structure and has improved their case management. Recently the Government has issued new
guidelines for management of cases in the courts. Under the Bank-supported Project, the
Government began computerizing the case management of courts. Although some courts have
computer equipment, in most cases, the courts are not adequately equipped, nor is the staff well
trained in information technology. The project has adopted a phased approach to
computerization whereby four courts will pilot a computerized case management of the court.
The Government has selected the Commercial Courts in Zagreb and Split, and the Municipal
courts in Pula and in Zagreb. These courts where selected for several reasons. They are: (i)
physically rehabilitated, (ii) better equipped (including computer equipment); and (iii) the staff is
already familiar with basic computer technology. After this initial pilot phase, the system will be
tested and reviewed, and where necessary adapted, to meet the needs of the Ministry of Justice.

     Though the long-term goal of the Government is to overhaul the entire court system, the
initial focus under this World Bank Project was the implementation of the application for
commercial cases in the commercial courts management, as well as the civil and criminal cases in
the municipal courts (at first for the four courts mentioned above). The ICMS System assists with
the registration of cases, trace the movement of cases in courts, and provides detailed statistics.
However, it should be taken into account that the ICMS system will be further implemented for
other types of court cases in other types of Croatian courts (county courts, the High Commercial
and the Supreme Court). The development and the structure of the system is compatible for all
cases (criminal, commercial and civil) and the system have is ready for the general roll-out in all
the other courts in Croatia (all other commercial and municipal courts, county courts, the High
Commercial and the Supreme Court). Through the development and implementation of the
proposed Integrated Court Case Management Information System Project, the Ministry of Justice
is seeking to achieve the short and long terms objectives, described below.



Short-term objectives:
               Introduce a modern ICMS system for the courts covering the activities in the court
               as detailed below;
               Improve the data quality and the handling of cases in the courts;
               Base the new system on a new database design with a modular approach which
               will provide enough flexibility for future expansion;
               Introduce a new module for all current statistical requirements of the courts;
               Train all court personnel involved in the pilot courts; and
               Prepare the rollout of the ICMS system to all courts in Croatia.



Long-Term Objectives
       Even as the current project was focused on implementing the ICMS in four pilot courts in
Croatia in the first phase, its goal is to develop a common vision for the Croatian court system.
So, it also helps develop an overall future strategy that includes the prosecutor's office, law
enforcement and enforcement services.

       Governments long-term plan for Croatia are as follows:
               Establish a reliable, efficient and sustainable system for the management of cases
               in the courts;
               Provide necessary management reports on which the courts and the Ministry
               would be able to make necessary decisions.




                                                  42

               Develop or integrate a System for the Enforcement of Court decisions; and
               Connect the law enforcement service to the system.


ICMS is Integral IT application for registering and tracking of data pertaining to court cases,
uniform application for all types of proceedings and for all courts, administered from central
location which will at the end be a "backbone" for all existing and future IT applications in the
justice sector.



                                         ICMS solution




                                                                     Modern
                   Functional              Austrian solution      technology and
                 specifications             (IBM reference)        methodology




                               FINANCE
                                                                          ELEKTRONIC
                                                                              FILING

                             ACCOUNTING                                    DOCUMENT
                                                                          MANAGEMENT

             ICMS         ACCOU                   STANDARDIZED              INTERNET
                          NTING                FORMS/TEMPLATES               PORTAL

                                                   STATISTICS             ELECTRONIC
                                                                              DATA
                                                                           INTERFACE
                      CASE TRACKING AND MANAGEMENT                           (POLICE,
                                                                          PROSECUTIO
                                                                            N, PRISON
                                                                          SYSTEM, TAX
                                                                             SYSTEM,
                                                                           LAWYERS,
                                                                          BANKS, ETC)

                                       INTEGRATION                         E-LEARNING

                       BULK PRINTING    INTERFACES    OTHER DATA
                                                        BASES




                                                  43

Short History

    ·   Building Functional Specifications ­ based on in-depth screening of business
        (legal/administrative) processes in courts 2001 ­ 2003 (best courts and MOJ experts,
        USAID, NCSC, EU CARDS)
    ·   Tender documentation ­ 600 pages - 2003-2004 (MOJ, WB, EU CARDS)
    ·   Procurement, negotiation, contracting ­ May 2004 ­ June 2005 (MOJ, WB)
    ·   Contract with IBM signed on 1. July 2005.
    ·   ICMS developed and implemented in Municipal Pilot Coutr in Pula - 31. January 2007.
        and other 3 pilot courts (Municipal Court Zagreb, Commercial Court Split, Commercial
        Court Zagreb) by the end of June 2007.


Project timeline and deliverables




                                              44

        Step I                                                  Step II                                                       Step III
                                   Del-                Del-       Del-           Del-        Implemen-                       Maintenance
      Analysis and               ivery 1              ivery     ivery 3         ivery          tation                                    and
      adjustment of                                      Isporu
                                                           2                       4         on 4 Pilot                            tech.
     specifications                                       ka 2                                 courts                            support



    4 months                                                      14 months                                                    12 months

                                                         Parallel activities

                                                          Project management

                                                         Change management




                Activities on change management and project management are
                         performed simultanously with the principal steps.


         Step I                                                           Step II                                                            Step III
       4 months                                                       14 months                                                             12 months
                                                                         ICMS


  1.7.2005                              1.4.2006                                           1.10.2006                                                1.1.2008
  Contract                            Delivery 1:                                         Delivery 3:                                         Implementation on:
    signing                                                                                                                                   - Municipal Court
                          · Administration of courts, parties and                · Civil litigation proceedings ­                             Zagreb
                                    procedural activities;                              commercial courts;                                    - Commercial Court
                         · First instance criminal proceedings on                · Non-litigant proceedings (ex-                  31.1.200    Split
                                municipal and county courts;                        parte) ­ commercial courts;                               - Commerial Court
                           · Appelate proceedings (criminal) on                                                            Implementati
                                                                                  · High Commercial Court ­                                   Zagreb
                                       county courts;                             appelate proceedings based on                 on on:
                          · Crimial proceedings on the Supreme                                                                                - County Court
                                                                                              all above;                    · Municipal
                                   Court (I, II i III instance).                                                                              Zagreb
                                                                                · The Supreme Court ­ appelate                Court Pula - County Courrt
                                                                                  and revision proceedings based
                                     Core general                                            on all above.                                    Pula

                                    functionalities                  1.7.2006                                                                 - High Commercial
                                                                                                                                              Court
                1.11.2005                                          Delivery 2:      Advanced general                                          - Supreme Court
                                                                                       functionalities             Delivery 4:
                                                                                                                       1.12.2006
                Detailed                           · Bankruptcy proceedings ­ commercial courts;
               specifications                           · Company register ­ commercial courts;
               adjusted and                            · Commercial misdemeanor proceedings ­          · Civil litigation proceedings (all) ­
                                                                  commercial courts;                               municipal courts;
             finalized, with all                  · High Commercial Court ­ appelate proceedings          · Ex-parte proceedings (all) ­
              changes to be                                       based on all above ;                             municipal courts;

               made to the                           · The Supreme Court ­ appelate and revision       · Enforcement ­ municipal courts;
                                                             proceedings based on all above.          · Appelate proceedings based on all
             original Austrian                                                                                above ­ county courts;
                 solution                                       Extended core general                · The Supreme Court ­ all proceedings
                                                                   functionalities                                 based on above.

                                                                                                            Advanced general
                                                                                                               functionalities




ICMS ­ the users:
    The Supreme Court, Ministry of Justice:
    ·    Support to decision making,
    ·    Reliable data on functioning of the judicial system,
    Court presidents:
    ·    Precise data needed for Court management and Case-flow management
    ·    (Information on dynamics of business processes: length of proceedings, activities,
         "bottlenecks", personnel management. etc),
    Judges:


                                                                        45

    ·    Real time, precise information needed for Case management (case status, activities,
         participants, deadlines, etc.)
    ·    Lesser administrative burden, standardized tools,
    Court Clerks:
    ·    Standardized, consistent and automated tools for registering all data and actions
         throughout the proceedings,
    Parties and citizens
    ·    More efficient and transparent justice


ICMS ­ Plans for future development

    ·    Roll-out and business process analysis and reengineering for 70 additional courts ­ (MOJ,
         EU-PHARE) ­ by late 2009
    ·    ICMS upgrades in the future ­
                     ·   electronic filing and communication with parties,
                     ·   interface with other governmental systems,
                     ·   document management.


    3.2. Component 2. Legal Information System

Obnova 1999 project

The Supreme Court (SC) of Croatia has developed (under an EU project) a legal information
system for all decisions of the Supreme Court (Obnova 1999). First results were prepared for
late September 2003. Members of the second WG were invited to attend the presentation of the
results and provided their comments. After the comments were issued, the WEB application was
finalized in late December 2003. This system is operational and the Supreme Court is in the
process of entering all legacy decisions of the court.

High Commercial Court ­ web-page and CPS application

The web page has been finalized in October 2004, on time for celebration of 50 years of
commercial courts. This system also published the decisions of the High Commercial Court (HCC).
CPS application for internal judicial practice was developed during 2005. Improvements were
obvious and fast. Before the implementation of application, 30% of judges of HCC were using
computers. Two years after, 95% of judges of HCC are using computers in everyday work.
Previously, judicial practice was only available in paper version, and only two people from the
court had the information where to find what. Now, judicial practice is available to everyone, on
two clicks, with various search possibilities, by terms, by law and keyword search. Results are
visible in uniform judicial practice HCC has now, used by all judges of HCC (even the ones older
than 60), and by all commercial courts, and in reduced backlog year by year.



    3.3. Component 3. Regulatory Framework for Trustees and Administrators

Since the start of the project there have been different amendments to the legal and regulatory
framework in relation to trustees. However, these amendments have not been effective and
could lead to confusion and uncertainty. The net effect of these amendments were that only legal
practitioners are able to qualify as trustees. The Government consequently constituted a working
group consisting of experts, judges, MoJ officials and businesspeople to assess this situation, and
a decision was taken to revert to the legal and implementation framework which existed for
trustees before 2000.


                                                 46

A group of the international bankruptcy experts from Germany were hired in February 2006 to
assist in the establishment of a comprehensive legal, regulatory and implementation framework
for development of the trustee and administrator professions in Croatia. Under component 4 was
described their task and work done.


     3.4. Component 4. Upgrading Skills of Bankruptcy Professionals

Judiciary Training Needs Assessment

The expert (Mr. Wolfgang Rusch, Germany) was contracted on May 2003. He finished his work
on assessment during the summer 2003. TOR for the training in bankruptcy area was submitted
in September 2003. Final report was presented on 26 September 2003 as well.


International bankruptcy expert referred to under Component 3, were also supposed to assist in
the training of judges and trustees. The international expert, working closely with local experts,
judges, business people and experienced trustees, developed several seminars and round tables,
where the focus was on discussion and sharing of international experience in the resolution of
typical problems, bottlenecks, implementation issues, which are being experienced in Croatian
bankruptcy practice. These consultants also:

       - designed an education program for judges in the area of bankruptcy to ensure a more
       systemic, sustainable, longer term framework for the Judicial Academy.

       - were suppose to assist the Ministry of Justice, as part of the assignment to develop the
       legal, regulatory and implementation framework for trustees referred to in the previous
       section above, to determine the education and training requirements for trustees, based on
       the new framework, and to make suitable recommendations on how this training should be
       conducted. Due to a lack of time and availability of hired expert, only gap analysis of
       regulatory and implementation framework for bankruptcy judges and trustees between
       Croatia and EU was done. Project was canceled after mentioned second delivery just
       before project closing and before experts managed to deliver trainings.

Given reports were sent to Judicial Academy and High Commercial Court which distributed it to
all commercial courts.


Procurement of the books for the libraries in the commercial courts

The WB, during its mission in July 2003, agreed to procure the books for the libraries (about
US$15.000) in the commercial courts once the CBAP is fully operational. The preparatory work
for this procurement has been done and the High Commercial Court has prepared the list of
books. Books are delivered to HCC who distributed them to all Commercial Courts. That was very
useful for their everyday work.


     3.5. Component 5. Insolvency and Legal Services Framework

Advising on the Rationalization of the Croatian Court System

It has been decided (by MOJ) that this task should be financed by CARDS 2002 Project. Some
initial activities has been already done by the Finish experts financed by the EC in the CARDS



                                                47

2002 Project. One of their tasks is to make the assessments about today's organization of
Croatian courts and upon that some rationalization proposals should be addressed to the MOJ.
The MOJ appointed two Municipal courts in Zagreb area (it is the one in Zelina and the other in
Samobor) to be firstly visited and assessed.


    3.6. Component 6. Project management

PMU Staffing.

The PMU/MOJ was responsible for project day-to-day administration.

The PMU staff structure was:

    -     Project Manager/Coordinator (PMU Director)
    -     Project Officer (Deputy Project Manager)
    -     IT expert
    -     Interpreter
    -     Office Manager/PM Assistant
    -     Financial manager
    -     International Procurement Advisor
    -     International IT Expert

During time, some of the consultants hired for some roles were part time and some were not
needed, but since summer 2004, PMU was stable, sufficient and productive.


    4. PROCUREMENT

    4.1. Implementation arrangements

Responsibility for all procurement under the project rested with the Ministry of Justice through
the Project Management Unit (PMU/MOJ). The PMU/MOJ is responsible for project day-to-day
administration, including procurement. All procurement was done according to the World Bank
procurement procedures with help of experienced international procurement advisor and WB
assistance.


    4.2. Procurement Plan

Procurement plan (PP) was done and upgraded on regular bases, accepted by MOJ and WB, and
all activities were performed strictly according to Procurement plan.


    4.3. General Procurement Notice

The GPN was published regularly.




    5. DISBURSEMENT

    5.1. Implementation arrangements



                                                  48

Disbursement of the loan proceeds was initiated by PMU financial manager and administered by
the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Finance (PIU/MOF), in consultation with the
PMU/MOJ.


    6. SUMMARY OF PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED DURING THE PROJECT

    6.1. PMU staffing

In the first years of the project, fluctuation of people and project managers was significant, so
project activities almost didn't started until end of 2003.

    6.2. MOJ support in early years

In early years of the project, the project suffered from a lack of a sustained MOJ commitment to
the objectives of the project due to lack of competence people and understanding of its goals.
Frequent change of IT Department Head Chiefs was also (but not significantly) slowing down the
project


    6.3. Coordination with other projects

The problem is consolidation of financial records/reports (in one `hands' and probably one place)
and coordination of activities (described in Section 5). Proposed actions:
    -   engagement of PMU Financial Manager who would take lead in disbursement activities
        and will take over financial management functions from the PIU/MOF, collect information
        on GoC contribution and ensure proper financial reporting.

    6.4. Infrastructure, migration

Data Center infrastructure is still in procurement through CARDS 2004 project. Now, borrowed
servers are in place. Courts also are not fully equipped.
Migration of data on pending cases into the ICMS are also under question ­ significant, labor-
intensive undertaking.


    7. CONCLUSION


Generally speaking, most of the project activities are performed according to planned scope and
schedule (procurement plan) and all important targeted goals are achieved. In last three years,
project had full support of the MOJ and personal involvement of the State Secretary Snjezana
Bagi as well as full support of WB and personal involvement of Supervisory Manager Irina
Kichigina.

IT Equipment, basic Trainings and books strengthened Commercial Courts and made them
candidates for ICMS implementation as ones of the first. Judicial practice in High Commercial
Court faster case solving, uniform case forms and content, caused backlog reduction and
connected commercial courts through increased communication.




                                                  49

Bankruptcy experts delivered valuable reports for training plan proposal and gap analysis of
bankruptcy regulations between Croatia and EU, but unfortunately, due to objective reasons they
didn't perform any trainings or delivered recommendations for change.

During first step of the ICMS project, working groups and Verification Body went through all
functional specifications and use cases that came as a result fully describe Croatian Judiciary
work process, which are very valuable information. During development, enhanced statistical
reports were structured, set of data was agreed and uniform approach to case document was
developed and implemented into system.

As a first integrated, centralized application in Judiciary, ICMS set up good basis for whole IT
system. Also, performing training to all IT personnel in Judiciary (they will be the key users), that
was the first time to gather them in the same place with the same goal and have them
understand and see a whole picture for Judicial IT System.

MOJ performed numerous activities to ensure the success of ICMS:
        · MOJ outsourced FINA (Financial Agency ­ Governmental IT Agency) to host and
            support central Data Center for ICMS application and Data Base.
        · MOJ hired IBM to help FINA establish ICMS.
        · MOJ hired PMU to continue working on ICMS and additionally hired 3 persons who
            will be dedicated to ICMS functional upgrades, training and on-courts support.
        · MOJ is working on IT reorganization and procedures.

Due to successful implementation of ICMS in Municipal Court in Pula and Commercial Court in
Split, as well as huge interest for ICMS among courts, MOJ decided to roll out ICMS in 4
additional pilot courts during 2007 ­ County Courts in Zagreb and Pula, High Commercial Court
and Supreme Court.

ICMS will in the near future bring clear benefits to the system:

    1. Reduction of case processing time:
            · By improved the capacity of courts to monitor cases from the submission
                 initiating the procedure to the finalization of the case and case management.
            · By adjusting the internal organization of the court to enable optimum case flow
                 management.
            · By reducing the need to repeatedly enter data into registers and to keep them
                 updated to the greatest possible extent, as this process is very time-consuming ­
                 the formation of a uniform relations database.
            · The ICMS will provide accurate information that both the judges and court staff
                 need in real time.
            · Reduced number of complaints.
            · Faster working of court personnel.
            · Templates.
            · Link to Judicial Practise.
            · Enhanced statistical reports according to all possible criteria (making
                 competition).
            · Automatic case assignment.
            · Central printing and Delivery.
            · E-filing.

    2. Transparency:
            · All information in the real-time.
            · Following all case actions.



                                                 50

            · Enhanced reports.
            · Following case duration.
            · Following work of judges.
            · High availability of information inside the system.

    3. Anticorruption:
            · Automatic award of cases to judges.

    4. Satisfied Court Administration:
            · Shifting jobs according to needs.
            · Adequate and modern work places.
            · Leaving routine.
            · More time for working with citizens.
            · More time for education.

    5. Better service for citizens:
            · Reduction of case processing time.
            · Higher availability of case status.
            · Easier monitor of work of lawyers.
            · Unified form and content of decision.
            · More understandable content of decision (reduced number of complains).
            · Central print and distribution.
            · More time available for citizens.

    6. Savings:
            · E-Filing.
            · Reduction of needs for new employment.
            · Reduction of number of complaints..
            · Central print and distribution.

    7. Easier decision making:
            · Statistical reporting and analysis upon all possible criteria.
            · Support to reform of Judiciary.
            · Support to rationalization of court network.
            · Information available from the system will represent baseline arguments for all
               intervention in Judiciary (law, financial, organizational, staffing etc.), and will
               help presidents of courts, ministers and government in management Judiciary.


At the end, expected results are:

    o Confidence of citizens in Judicial system.
    o Satisfaction of citizens with better quality of serves and reduction of case processing time.
    o Facilitate joining EU.
    o Better image of Judiciary and country in general.




                                                51

52

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                    53

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.      Final Report ­ Croatia Court Improvement Project (September 2000 ­ April
2004), USAID IQC No. AEP 00-00-0011-00, Delivery Order No. 801 (National Center
for State Courts)




                                          54

