FEE        COPY              RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-667a
This report was prepored for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
October 10, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1=                    FMG 2h7
FMG 1 million       =     US $4,050
FISCAL YEAR
January 1           =     December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
METRIC - BRITISH/US EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)           0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)           =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)             2.47 acres
1 liter (1)          =     0.26 US gallon (gal) =
0.22 imperial gallon (IG)
1 metric ton (m ton) =     1.10 US short tons
(sh tons)=    0.984 ton
ABBREVIATIONS - ACRONYMS
DGEA        -   Direction General de 1'Equipement et de
1 'Aeronautique
SEEF        -   Service des Etudes Economiques et
Financieres
SCT         -   Service Central Technique
DPC         -   Direction des Ponts et Chaussees
LBTPM       -   Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux
Pablics de Madagascar



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWJAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUMMARY                                                    i
1. INTRODUCTION                                                1
2.  BACKGROUND                                                 2
A. General                                                 2
B. Transport Sector                                        2
C.  Transport Coordination                                 4
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                                          6
A.  The Highway System                                     6
B.  Highway Adxinistration                                 6
C.  Design Standards                                       7
D.  Highway Ehgineering and Construction                   7
E.  Highway Maintenance                                    8
F. Characteristics and Growth of Vehicle Fleet
and Traffic                                          8
G. Road Transport Industry                                 9
H. Road Investment Planning and Financing                 10
4.  THE PROJECT                                               12
A.  Description                                           12
B. Design Standards                                       13
C.  Cost Estimates                                        14
D. Execution                                              15
E.  Financing and Disbursement                            16
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                     18
A. Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy Road                   18
B. Ambanja-Ambilobe Road                                  19
C. Onibe and Fanandrana Bridges                           20
D. Ambanja Bridge                                         21
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECaMMENDATIONS                            23
This report was prepared by Messrs. Haker, Economist, and Soges, Engineer.






Table of Contents
- Page 2 -
TABLES
1. Revenues from Road Users
2. Expenditures on Highways
3. Motor Vehicle Registration
4. Motor Fuel Consumption
5. Design Standards
6. Cost Estimates
7. Vehicle Operating Costs
CHART
Organization Chart
MAPS
1. Malagasy Highway System
2. The Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy Road






MALAGASY REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        During 1966 and 1967 the Government of the Malagasy Republic sub-
mitted various applications to the Bank-IDA to help in financing investments
in the road system. The proposed road project was defined with the assis-
tance of the Bank's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa and subsequently
appraised in February 1968; it consists of the construction of two roads
and three major bridges.
ii.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.5 million
equivalent. The construction cost estimate for the two roads is based on
bid prices and for the three bridges on advanced preliminary engineering
which will form the basis for combined bids on design and construction. The
foreign exchange component of the project is about 70 percent, based on
which a loan/credit in the total amount of US$8.0 million is recommended.
iii.      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the
Ministere de L'Equipement et des Communications. Construction contracts
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Con-
struction supervision will be carried out by consultants, except for one
road which will be supervised by the road administration. The practice of
supervising construction by the road administration, when this can be done
conveniently, is generally followed in Madagascar and has proved satisfactory
under the first road credit (90-MAG). It is estimated that the project will
be completed by the end of 1971.
iv.       The construction of the roads and bridges in the project will
result in considerable reductions in transport costs and will generate impor-
tant development benefits. The estimated rates of return range from 8 to 13
percent for individual items. These returns are the highest for road projects
now available for financing in Madagascar, and are satisfactory.
v.        The project constitutes a suitable basis for Bank/IDA lending in a
total amount of US$8.0 million equivalent, consisting of a US$4.5 million
equivalent credit and a US$3.5 million equivalent loan. An appropriate loan
term would be 30 years including a ten-year grace period.






MALAGASY REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of the Malagasy Republic, during 1966 and 1967,
submitted various applications to IDA for help in financing (i) the con-
struction and bituminous paving of two roads between Fanjakamandroso and
Tsiroanomandidy, and between Ambilobe and Ambanja; (ii) the construction of
seven bridges; (iii) the detailed engineering of four road sections; and
(iv) feasibility studies for the Lac Alaotra-Vavatenina, Moramanga-Tamatave
and Tananarive-Fiaranantsoa roads.
1.2       Between November 1966 and December 1967 three missions went to
Madagascar from the Bank's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa (PMEA) to
assist in the preparation and preliminary assessment of the applications.
The proposed project was appraised in February 1968. As a result of these
various consultations the Government withdrew its application for three of
the bridges because of insufficient economic justification, and initiated
a feasibility study for one of the others, to be financed under the existing
IDA Credit (90-MAG). It was also agreed to include in this project the de-
tailed engineering of only the road section from Arivonimamo to Analavory
out of the four that were proposed, the remaining three being judged prema-
ture. However, during loan/credit negotiations in September 1968, the
Government asked that the detailed engineering and the feasibility studies
be excluded from the present project, because it was undesirable to finance
studies with funds a part of which would be provided under bank loan terms.
The Government is planning now to complete the detailed engineering of the
Arivoniamamo to Analavory road with budget funds, and to apply to the UNDP
for help to finance the feasibility studies.
1.3       This appraisal report is based on information obtained by the PMEA
missions, consisting of Messrs. Haker, economist, and van Dijck, engineer,
and on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Haker, and
Soges, engineer, in February 1968.
1.4       This would be the second highway project in Madagascar by the Bank/
IDA. The first, Credit 90-MAG of US$10.0 million, approved in May 1966,
involved the reconstruction of two sections of the Tananarive-Majunga Road.
The project was about 20 percent complete as of August 1968; performance is
satisfactory. The Bank is financing the preparation of a master plan for
the Port of Tamatave through a Technical Assistance grant, and has indicated
its willingness to act as Executing Agency for a study of three other port
sites, should financing for the study be approved by the UNDP.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.1       Madagascar, the fourth largest island in the world, lies in the
Indian Ocean, 400 Ian off the southeast coast of Africa. With an area of
592,000 km2, it is as large as France and the Benelux countries combined.
It had an estimated population of 6.2 million in mid-1966, which is growing
at a rate of about 2 percent per annum. The geographical configuration of
Madagascar shows four distinct regions: the Western coastal plains, the high
plateau in the center of the island, the escarpment down to the eastern shore,
and the isolated northern area. The climate is semi-tropical, with heavy
rainfall and periodic cyclones.
2.2       The GNP was US$600 million equivalent in 1966 and has been increas-
ing at 3 percent per annum. GNP per capita is about US$100. Agriculture
accounts for 32 percent of GNP, industry 11 percent, transport 10 percent,
the remainder consists of commerce, services and government administration.
B.   Transport Sector
2.3       Madagascar lacks an adequate inland transport system.   The northern
and part of the western regions have no all-weather connections with the rest
of the island; the links with the southern region are merely trails. This is
due not only to the low population density and early stage of economic devel-
opment of much of the island, but also to the high construction costs caused
by the rugged topography, and the scarcity of suitable construction materials.
2.4       The framework of the transport system was conceived during the
1890's. It consists of a circumferential road roughly following the littoral,
a north-south central axis that bisects the island, and some radials connect-
ing the two. This layout has been partially implemented through rail and
road investment throughout the past 70 years and with scme modifications still
constitutes the basis for transport planning. Nevertheless large gaps still
remain to be filled in the basic network.
2.5       The main traffic flows are between Tamatave, the main port, and
Tananarive, the capital situated on the Central Plateau; and between
Tananarive and Fiaranantsoa to the south, through the Central Plateau which
is the most populated and developed region in the island.
Highways
2.6       The road network totals about 30,500 km including about 8,500 km of
primary roads of which only 2,500 km are bituminous paved with the remainder
being gravel or earth surfaced. In 1966 there were some 45,000 vehicles in
the country. Traffic on the primary road network has been growing at 6 per-
cent per annum for the past five years. The trucking industry is small and



- 3 -
is mostly in the hands of owner drivers. Conditions of entry are easy, and
competition is very keen.
Railways
2.7       Madagascar has four railway lines, totalling 860 km. The railways
carried about 2.2 million passengers and 570,000 tons of merchandise in 1967.
Since 1960, passenger traffic has been growing at about 4 percent per annum
and goods traffic by 5.5 percent. The traffic is distributed unevenly; only
the 379 km Tamatave-Tananarive line carries any significant volume (392,000
tons-km 1967). The railways are government-owned, and operated by the Regie
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Malgaches, which is a division of the Ministere
de l'Equipement et des Communications. They do not enjoy financial or com-
mercial autonomy.
2.8       Being run as a government service, the railways do not follow com-
mercial accounting practices. The budget is prepared on a cash basis that
combines elements of profit and loss, capital account and subsidies, and the
financial results of port operations. Therefore, the true financial picture
of the railway is unclear. According to rough estimates, current cash ex-
penditures account for about 90 percent of current revenues leaving a surplus
of less than US$1 million equivalent a year which is insufficient to cover
depreciation and interest. About three-fourths of the revenue is generated
on the Tamatave-Tananarive line and is used to cover the deficits of the
others.
2.9       The railways have recently been studied in detail under a UNDP
grant by the Belgian Consultants SORCA and BECEKA. The study recommends
sweeping organizational reforms and a-basic overhaul of tariff policy. A
number of investment possibilities were also examined but none of the invest-
ments considered proved to be attractive, while the data showed that one of
the four lines should be closed and that-passenger traffic should be aban-
doned on two others. These recommendations are being considered by the Gov-
ernment.
Air Transport
2.10      The size of the country and the relative isolation of various
regions make passenger air transport important. In 1967 there were 45 air-
fields served regularly by Air Madagascar flights. All but 13 are in a rudi-
mentary state with unpaved runways. which may be closed during bad weather.
The airports of Tananarive and Majunga take long-distance jet aircraft.
International flights commenced only in 1962 and have increased rapidly to
1,050 departures during 1965. The number of domestic flights was stable
around 15,000 departures per annum.
Water Transport and Ports
2.11      Inland water transport is negligible because of the lack of navi-
gable rivers. The notable exception is the 200 km Pangalanes Canal along
the East Coast between Mahanoro and Tamatave which carries about 40,000 tons
of agricultural products annually. Coastal navigation, however, is important



-4-
as the only means of transporting merchandise between many areas. Coastal
traffic amounted to 162,000 tons in 1966. It has further scope for develop-
ment and is likely to play a useful role in the transport system for a long
time. There are 23 ports and roadsteads of which four carry 80 percent of
the international traffic; the remaining handle mainly coastal traffic. The
Government has increasingly sought to rationalize coastal shipping and related
port operations. The intention is to concentrate international trade in the
four major ports and confine the smaller ports to coastal traffic, closing
down some of the smallest.
C. Transport Coordination
2.12      Competition among transport modes is quite limited.   Since the
projected circumferential littoral road now exists only in a few sections,
coastal shipping is complementary rather than competitive with inland trans-
port, and is likely to remain so for many years. A similar complementary
relationship exists between land and air transport in most cases. Competi-
tion between road and rail is practically nonexistent. When potential road-
rail competition now exists, it is suppressed by two main means. The first
is through the Government's policy of maintaining roads in substandard condi-
tion wherever a railway alternative exists. Secondly, physical restrictions
on trucking are imposed - e.g. trucks of more than 5.0 ton gross vehicle
weight are barred from the Tamatave-Tananarive axis.
2.13      The suppression of trucking has enabled the railway to establish
its tariffs without any effective competitive constraint and without regard
to costs or economy of service. Railway tariffs are determined mainly by two
criteria: (i) what the traffic can bear, and (ii) certain notions of eco-
nomic and social policy. Tariffs based on the first criterion may be much
above costs and those based on the second are below marginal costs. The com-
plete absence of rate tapering as a function of distance and the small dif-
ferential of 5 percent between partial and full wagon load tariffs, even
though the cost differential is 50 percent, are further evidence that cost
considerations play little part in determining tariffs.
2.14      Protecting the railway in this fashion eliminates any incentive to
reduce costs. The result, for instance, is that a significant proportion of
the labor force is redundant. According to cost data provided by the rail-
ways, average ton-km costs are US¢4.1 excluding depreciation on all assets
except rolling stock, the interest charges, and administrative overheads. On
a similar basis passenger-kilometer costs amount to US02.1. For individual
lines, however, ton-km costs may be as high as US¢ll.l and passenger kilo-
meter costs US¢2.6. This makes it one of the most expensive railways in the
world. For comparison, average ton kilometer costs for East African Railways
is US¢1.6 and passenger kilometer costs us¢o.6, including full depreciation.
2.15      No conscious attempt is made to coordinate transport through road
user taxation or pricing, although considerable amounts of revenues are
obtained from this source. The most important tax is on petrol, about US¢10
per litre corresponding to a 110 percent ad valorem tax on the net pump head



-5-
price. The tax on diesel oil is US¢4.4 per litre. These two taxes produced
75 percent of the total revenues of about US$13.7 million derived from road
users in 1966 (Table 1). In 1966 these highway revenues were sufficient to
finance all current expenditures on highways of US$9.2 million and leave a
surplus of US$4.2 million which roughly corresponded to 30 percent of capi-
tal expenditures in roads in the same year (Table 2). More than one-half
of the tax revenue is collected in the Tananarive municipal boundaries, while
over 90 percent of expenditures on roads are outside it. From the limited
data available it appears questionable whether rural road users pay current
road maintenance cost. However, given the small number of vehicles in the
country and the extensive road network, users should not be expected to cover
the total financial expenditures of the road network.
2.16      During 1960 a National Committee for Transport Coordination was
set up under the chairmanship of the Ministre de l'Equipement et des Communi-
cations. Achievements to date have been very limited. There is no doubt,
however, that as road development in Madagascar proceeds and the feasibility
studies being considered give rise to projects, transport coordination prob-
lems will require more attention than they have received so far. Solving
these problems will be a slow process requiring a change of attitudes and
of views as to what is politically possible. The construction of the roads
and bridges included in this credit has no direct transport coordination
implications.



- 6 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway System
3.1       The highway network is divided into primary, secondary and tertiary
roads. The primary roads connect major towns, and link the Central Plateau
with the coastal lands; the secondary and tertiary roads connect remote
villages to the primary road system. The network comprises about 31,000 km
of roads of which only about 40 percent are all-weather as shown below:
Length, in km
Bituminous        Other all-      Dry weather
paved roads     weather roads         roads        Total
Primary roads            2,500            3,550             2,300        8,350
Secondary and
tertiary roads           250            7,000            15,000       22,250
Total               2,750           10,550            17,300       30,600
3.2       The road density in relation to area is relatively low and signifi-
cant gaps still exist:   large regions like that of Diego Suarez, Morandava
and Fort Dauphin are not connected with the rest of the island by all-weather
roads. However, in relation to population, the road density is higher than
in many African countries (e.g. Km of roads per 1,000 persons, Ethiopia: 1.0,
Kenya: 2.4, Tanzania: 3.5, Madagascar: 4.8). Road standards are generally
low; alignments are badly located, winding and narrow; pavement (where it
exists) and structures are often obsolete. Only a few sections of the pri-
mary network conform to modern standards.
B. Highway Administration
3.3       The administration of the highway system is the responsibility of
the Direction General de l'Equipement et de l'Aeronautique (DGEA) which is one
of the three General Directorates of the Ministere de l'Equipement et des
Communications. The DGEA works in close cooperation with the Service des
Etudes Economiques et Financieres (SEEF), the planning unit of the Ministry
which is responsible for investment analysis and planning for the transport
sector. The divisions of the DGEA which discharge the functions of highway
administration are the Service Central Technique (SCT), the Direction des
Ponts et Chaussees (DPC), and the Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux
Publics de Madagascar (LBTPM), (see chart).
3.4       The SCT is responsible for the engineering, tendering, and super-
vision of highway construction projects. The DPC is in direct charge of the
maintenance of the primary road system, provides technical assistance and
personnel to provincial and municipal authorities for the secondary and



-7-
tertiary roads and supervises their work. The LBTPM is a financially autono-
mous Government agency under the management of the Centre Experimental de
Recherches et d'Etudes du Batiment et des Travaux Publics, a French organi-
zation for studies and research. The highway administration is well orga-
nized and the present staff is competent and capable of adequately performing
all the functions necessary for the planning, execution and management of an
efficient highway system.
3.5       The Africanization of the administration is an established long-
term policy of the Government. Presently, most of the senior technical
positions in the highway administration are still held by expatriates pro-
vided for under French technical assistance, but there are indications that
French assistance might be reduced in the future. In order to implement
the policy of Africanization and to meet the eventuality of a progressive
withdrawal of French technicians, the Government is planning to replace
about 50% of the expatriate staff by nationals over the next five years.
However, neither the present number of qualifying Malagassies nor the pro-
gram for their engineering education and training are sufficient to meet
the requirements of national staff at this proposed pace. To maintain the
present high professional standard of the highway administration, it is
likely that the DGEA will have to rely on expatriate staff for a longer
time than presently contemplated. The goals of Africanization and the
program for its implementation were discussed during the negotiations. The
Government gave a satisfactory assurance of its intention to maintain the
strength and the professional standards of the staff in the highway admin-
istration at appropriate levels, and confirmed the steps it is taking to
broaden and to expand the technical education and training of nationals for
professional positions and to provide adequate incentives to attract qual-
ifying nationals to the highway administration. The Government also agreed
to exchange views with the Association from time to time concerning the
progress in achieving these goals.
C. Design Standards
3.6       Physical conditions make the construction and maintenance of roads
difficult and costly (see para. 2.3). Also, in the present stage of the
country's development, the traffic does not justify high standard roads. For
these reasons, the highway administration has adopted for new construction in
the primary road system relatively narrow road width (8.50 m roadway and
5.50 m pavement) and low design speeds (max. 80 km/h). The selection of
standards for individual projects is flexible so that they can be adjusted
to the economic requirements of the investment.
D. Highway Engineering and Construction
3.7       The DGEA is adequately organized and staffed to carry out a sub-
stantial part of the engineering of road projects and to supervise their
construction, for-which it is using extensively the services of specialized



-8-
firms for surveying, hydraulic studies, soil exploration, etc. Engineering
work beyond the capacity of the administration is delegated to consultants.
3.8       Contractors are generally used for construction and occasionally
for major maintenance works. Contracts for construction are usually awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, either local or international. Admin-
istrative procedures for bidding and awarding follow well established regu-
lations; work specifications are comprehensive and precise. For bridge con-
struction the procedure of the "concours de projet et d'execution" is often
followed whereby contractors compete with a single bid for design and exe-
cution. The DGEA operates a small force account construction unit mainly
to train personnel; its work is limited to earth roads. An increase of the
force account capacity is envisaged to meet road requirements of agricultural
expansion programs. The five major road contractors in Madagascar are sub-
sidiaries of French firms; there are also a number of smaller local contrac-
tors.
E. Highway Maintenance
3.9       The maintenance of the primary road system is the direct responsi-
bility of the DPC; the secondary and tertiary roads are maintained by the
public works units of the local administrative authorities, under the super-
vision of the DPC. All routine maintenance is carried out by force account.
The maintenance of the primary roads is to a large extent mechanized. Main-
tenance equipment is placed under the care of the Service des Parcs et
Ateliers des Travaux Publics, a Government organization which is financially
autonomous and efficiently managed with headquarters and central shop in
Tananarive and facilities throughout the country. Since 1965, the DGEA has
embarked on an equipment renewal and extension program to intensify mechani-
zation and to meet increasing demands for road maintenance. This investment
program is financed partially by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC).
3.10      Consultants, BCEOM (France) carried out in 1967 under French aid a
comprehensive highway maintenance study covering administrative organization,
budgeting and maintenance methods for the primary road system. The study
was conducted in close cooperation with the DPC and its recommendations are
being followed. The Government agreed (under Credit 90-MAG) to increase
budget allocations for highway maintenance taking into account the recom-
mendations of the study. This obligation is being satisfactorily implemented
as highway maintenance expenditures have been increased from US$5.8 million
equivalent in 1965 to a planned US$7.7 million equivalent in 1968.
F. Characteristics and Growth of the Vehicle Population and Road Traffic
3.11      According to registration statistics there were about 60,000
vehicles in 1966 of which 23,700 were registered before 1956, so that the
number of vehicles in actual circulation is likely to be about 45,000 (see
Table 3). There is thus one car per 140 persons in the country which is



-9-
about average for Africa, except for the countries north of the Sahara and
South Africa. Slightly over half of the vehicles, including two-thirds of
private cars, are concentrated in Tananarive. Cumulative registrations grew
at the rate of 6 percent per annum which suggests that net growth was small.
Petrol consumption has been growing at 5 percent suggesting a larger growth
rate for traffic than for the vehicle population (see Table 4).
3.12      There are close to 300 traffic counting stations.   In about 50 sta-
tions counts are taken one day a month throughout the year, whereas for the re-
mainder one-week counts are generally taken once during the rainy season, a
second during the dry season and a third during harvest periods. The regu-
larity with which counts have been taken in the past has not been even,
although performance has improved in recent years. Traffic volumes outside
the main towns are low. Only 400 km of the primary road system in 1966 had
an average daily traffic (ADT) of over 500. Another 600 km had ADT's of
200-500 vehicles, 1,800 km had 70-200 and the remaining 5,700 km had ADT's
under 70. Due to the absence of regularity with which counts have been
taking place in the past, and the changes that have occurred in the location
of counting stations, direct evidence on trends in the growth of traffic is
very limited. Indirect evidence from petrol and diesel oil consumption sug-
gests an average annual traffic growth rate of 6 percent per annum.
G. Road Transport Industry
3.13      The road transport industry consists mainly of numerous small
carriers which compete vigorously. There are two bus companies of some im-
portance on the Antsirabe-Fianarantsoa axis. In addition, eight transport
cooperatives in the Tananarive department run about 350 mini-buses. The
costs of bus operation vary between Us¢o.6 and 1.4 per passenger-kilometer
on the assumption of an 80 percent load factor. The tariffs charged, however,
are often 20-25 percent lower thus leading to some bankruptcies.
3.14      For goods transport the largest company owns 28 trucks with a
carrying capacity of 230 tons. A number of truck cooperatives also exist -
the most important represents about 60-80 trucks. Except for insurance and
periodic inspection, there are no regulations governing the industry.
3.15      Ton-kilometer costs, including a tax element of 30 percent, vary
between USq3.0 and 4.0 for trucks of 9.5 ton capacity and large trailers.
When a deduction is made for taxes the figures are comparable to those
appearing in Table 7. The standard tariff charged by the largest trucking
company is about US¢6.5 per ton-km for deliveries of up to five tons; for
larger deliveries cheaper rates are negotiated. Including large shipments
and low back haul rates, its average receipts are US¢4.5 per ton-km. Infor-
mation is not available for independent truckers, although it appears that
their average rate is around US¢3.5 per ton-km.
3.16      A comparison between the above data and railway costs which ex-
clude (see para 2.14) track costs and fixed railway installations indicates
that road transport is considerably cheaper than rail for passengers but



- 10 -
about the same for goods traffic. Even for goods traffic, the cost of certain
types presently carried by the railway is considerably higher than for road
transport.
H. Road Investment Planning and Financing
3.17      Between 1950 and 1960 an average of US$5.6 million was spent
annually on road development, mostly financed by the French Government. In
1961 a highway master plan, called the "Plan of the Year 2000", was prepared.
Subsequently and as a first phase, a ten-year plan, covering 1964-1973
foresaw an outlay of US$224 million, through which 3,000 km of the primary
road network would be reconstructed to modern design standards and bitumin-
ized, with the bridges on the remainder made fit for vehicles of up to 25
tons gross weight. About 6,000 km of secondary and tertiary roads were to
be upgraded to all-weather standard and a further 3,000 km improved to carry
traffic of up to 15 tons gross weight.
3.18      The criteria determining road selection are not discussed in great
detail in the plan document. It appears that the underlying investment goals
are to interconnect the various regions of the country with a modern primary
road network, to allocate road investment funds to the relatively less devel-
oped coastal areas, to avoid road-rail competition, and to give preference to
building new roads for development purposes.
3.19      The execution of the plan for the first three years 1964-1966 may
be summarized as follows:
US$ million equivalent
Target for       Commitments      Percentage
1964-1968         1964-1966      of Execution
Primary roads     48.1              34.7             72
Secondary roads   28.5               7.3             25
Tertiary roads      3.2              1.9             60
Resurfacing         3.6              2.9             81
Studies            4.0               3.8             95
Others             4.0               1.4             35
Total        91.4              52.0             56
In financial outlays, the percentage of execution is very close to targets,
but in physical terms performance is considerably below since the commitment
figures above fall short of execution by about 10 percent and construction
costs have risen by about 30 percent. The total financial outlays required
to achieve the physical targets for the ten-year period would therefore be
about US$290 million, and with US$52 million having been spent, achievement
of the targets would imply annual spending of about US$34 million for the
remainder of the period - a figure that seems quite unattainable.



3.20      The prospects for additional foreign financial assistance from
traditional sources like FED, FAC and the Federal Republic of Germany appear
uncertain. When and under what conditions these sources would be prepared
to make new c mmitments, and whether they would give priority to infrastruc-
ture development as has been the case in the past, are unknown. In the
immediate future, IBRD-IDA appears to be the major prospective source of aid
for road construction.
3.21      The preparation of the second Five-Year Plan (1969-1973) has re-
cently begun; it will no doubt involve substantial reductions in comparison
with the previous ten-year program. The Government has expressed a willing-
ness to keep in touch with the Association during the preparation of the plan
and gave satisfactory assurances that highway investments will take into
consideration financial constraints, the competing needs of other sectors,
especially agriculture, and that appropriate emphasis will be given to se-
lecting projects with adequate economic returns.



- 12 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.1       The proposed project consists of (see Map):
(i)  The construction and bituminous paving of the Fanjakamandroso-
Tsiroanomandidy (55 km) and Ambilobe-Ambanja (91 km) Roads;
(ii) The construction of major bridges with their approaches at
Onibe, Fanandrana and Ambanja;
(iii) Engineering services, mostly supplied by consultants, for
the supervision of construction under (i) and (ii).
Construction of the Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy Road (55 km)
4.2       The Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy Road will be a section of the
246 km long primary road RN 1, linking Tananarive, the capital city, with
Tsiroanomandidy, an important marketing center in the agriculturally rich
mid-western region. The road will eventually be extended to the west coast.
The first 45 km of RN 1 from Tananarive to Arivanimamo were recently recon-
structed to satisfactory standards but the following 70 km to Analavory are
narrow, winding and follow a badly located alignment even though they have
an asphalt pavement. The Government is planning to carry out the detailed
engineering of this section with its own staff. The remaining 122 kilometers
of RN 1 between Analavory and Tsiroanomandidy is a poorly aligned earth road
(see Map 2). About five years ago a decision had been taken to abandon this
earth road and choose a shorter alignment that will follow the crest line
of plateaus. In 1966 the first 55 km section on the new alignment up to
Fanjakamandroso was completed to satisfactory standards with the financial
assistance of FED. The present project includes the extension of the sec-
tion to Tsiroanomandidy and with its execution the relocation of the RN 1
between Analavory and Tsiroanomandidy would be completed.
4.3       The detailed engineering of the Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy
section was carried out in 1966 by BCEOM, with the financial assistance of
FED, and was based on an alignment survey by the SCT. The consultants have
proposed a subbase for the pavement consisting of a mixture of plastic
laterite soil with sand. This solution appears impractical, and the SCT
has revised the consultant's design with a view to using lime stabilized
subbase.
Construction of the Ambilobe-Ambanja Road (91 km)
4.4       The Ambilobe-Ambanja Road is a section of the primary road RN 6 which
will ultimately connect the northern region with the western shorelands and
the central plateau. The section of the road to the north between Diego
Suarez and Ambilobe is bituminous paved and is satisfactory for present traf-
fic. The Ambilobe-Ambanja section is a narrow earth road with poor drainage



- 13 
and surface conditions. The terrain is flat, intersected by several streams.
In the middle of the project section, the earthworks for the improved road
have already been carried out and the bridges built over an 11 km stretch
with FED financing.
Construction of bridges at Onibe, Fanandrana and Ambanja
4.5       The Onibe bridge site is situated 65 km north of Tamatave on the
primary road RN 2. The present ferry on the Onibe River is the only remain-
ing bottleneck on the bituminous paved section between Tamatave and Fenerive.
The river bed is broad and flat and favorable for multiple bridge foundations.
The bridge will be about 400 m long.
4.6       The Fanandrana bridge site is situated 26 km south of Tamatave on
the primary road RN 2 to Tananarive, over the Ivondro River. which is pres-
ently crossed by ferry. The river bed is deeper and the current is stronger
than in the case of the Onibe, and the possibility of intermediate pier
foundations is limited by the presence of fault zones. The bridge will be
about 240 m long.
4.7       The Ambanja bridge is situated on the primary road RN 6, over the
Sambirano River on the southern periphery of Ambanja in the north-west of the
country.  A collapsible wooden bridge is placed across the river each year
for the eight-month dry season. During the wet season the bridge is removed
and a ferry is operated for two months. The river does not allow the ferry
to operate throughout the year, since the current is too swift for two months
in the rainy season and there is not enough water in the dry season. The
river bed is deeply embanked; the bridge will be about 160 m long.
B. Design Standards
4.8       Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy and Ambilobe-Ambanja Roads:   The
design standards adopted by the Ministere de l'Equipement et des Communications
a few years ago for the development of the primary road network were used in
the engineering of the roads to be constructed under the project. The stan-
dards (see Table 5) are modest but satisfactory under Malagasy conditions.
The pavement design initially recommended for the roads was revised in the
process of project appraisal, resulting in improved drainage and reduced cost
of the pavement structure. The design is made for stage construction so that
the pavement can be strengthened as the traffic grows. Bridges and other
structures are designed on the basis of Malagasy standards which follow French
practice.
4.9       Bridges at Onibe, Fanandrana and Ambanja:   The design standards
used in the engineering of the Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy and Ambilobe-
Ambanja Roads will also apply to the approaches of the three major bridges.
The design of bridges will be based on Malagasy standards, but proposals
based on other authoritative standards consistent with the former will also
be accepted. The basic design for the bridges will be for a 3.50 m wide
single lane carriage-way with 0.75 m wide sidewalks on both sides. On the



- 14 -
Onibe bridge, which is the longest, the single lane will be widened at the
middle section of the structure to provide a bay for passing.
4.10      Cost estimates for the bridges have been prepared on the assumption
that they will be constructed with a single lane. Bidders, however, have
been requested to submit alternative offers for single and two lane bridges
at Onibe and Fanandrana. The alternative of building these bridges with two
lanes will be considered only if the 20 percent quantity contingency item
allowed for in the construction cost estimates is found to be sufficient to
cover the additional costs. In view of the issues of economic justification
discussed in para. 5.16, as a condition of this lending the question of
building single or double lane bridges at Onibe and Fanandrana will be de-
cided on the basis of bid offers in consultation between the Bank/IDA and the
Government.
C. Cost Estimates
4.11      The summary of the cost estimate of the project and the estimated
foreign exchange component thereof is as follows (for details see Table 6):
US$ million         Foreign
FMG million  equivalent     exchange component
US million equiv.
A. Construction Works
(i)  FanJakamandroso-
Tsiroanomandidy Road      824        3.34              2.34
(ii)  Ambilobe-Ambanja Road   1,125       4.55               3.18
(iii)  Three Bridges             377       1.53               1.07
Sub-total               2,326       9.42               6.59
B.  Engineering Services for
Supervision of Construction    132       0.54               0.38
C.  Contingencies
a) for quantity variations     250       1.01               0.70
b) for price variations,
(about 5% on all costs)     135       0.55              0.39
Total                    2,843       11.52              8.o6
Rounded off to           2,800      11.50               8.Gn
4.12      The estimates for the road construction contracts are based on
bid prices received for the works.  The estimates for the bridge contracts
are based on the quantities derived from the detailed engineering of the



- 15 -
access roads and from the preliminary prototype designs of the bridge struc-
tures prepared by the SCT for estimating purposes. Unit prices used in these
cost estimates were developed from applicable contract prices on similar
works recently carried out in Madagascar and updated to present price levels,
and also from independent cost analyses. The cost estimate for the services
of consultants for the supervision of the bridge construction works is based
on detailed evaluation of man-month and other requirements; although rela-
tively high, this cost estimate is considered realistic in view of the spe-
cialized nature of the bridge works. A percentage of the construction costs
has been used for estimating the cost of supervision of the Ambilobe-Ambanja
Road.
4.13      Amounts ranging from 5 to 20 percent have been allowed on various
construction costs to cover quantity contingencies, depending on a judgment
on the accuracy of the estimates. A further allowance of 5 percent on all
costs has been included to cover possible price increases over the project
period of three years. Records on price trends show that construction costs
have been increasing at the rate of 3 to 4 percent per annum in recent years.
The allowances for quantity and price variations are considered adequate.
4.14      The foreign exchange component for the construction works is esti-
mated at about 70 percent. It includes imported materials, depreciation of
equipment and spare parts, fuels, the foreign cost of expatriate personnel
and overhead, and profits. The local cost component includes mainly labor,
local subsistence and about 7 percent of the total cost for local taxes and
duties. The foreign exchange component for engineering services by consul-
tants is estimated also at 70 percent.
D. Execution
General
4.15      The DGEA will have overall responsibility for the execution of the
project, with the SCT in charge of its administration.   The SCT has prepared
the project, including some of the detailed engineering, and will also
directly supervise a part of the construction works.
Supervision of construction
4.16      The supervision of the 'construction of the Fanjakamandroso-
Tsiroanomandidy Road, which is conveniently located close to Government head-
quarters, will be by the SCT, assisted by the LBTPM for soils and materials
testing. The practice of supervising construction by the road administration,
when this can be done conveniently, is generally followed in Madagascar, and
has proved satisfactory under the first road credit (90-MAG). During credit
negotiations, the Government agreed that consultants satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA will be engaged for the supervision of construction of this road in
case it should appear that the SCT cannot perform this duty to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank/IDA.



4.17      The detailed engineering of the Ambilobe-Ambanja Road was carried
out by the SCT, and has been updated by it following the refinements in design
standards agreed upon during appraisal. The supervision of the construction
of this road will be entrusted to engineering consultants under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
4.18      For the Onibe, Fanandrana and Ambanja bridges, the SCT has com-
pleted the detailed engineering of the access roads and of the bridge align-
ment, and has carried out the detailed site investigations. On this basis
the SCT has compiled the data and information which is required in order to
proceed with the detailed engineering of the bridge structures. Using this
background, the SCT has prepared the detailed specifications and tender
documents for a "concours de projet et d'execution", i.e. invitation for com-
petitive design and bidding. This method of procurement, under which construc-
tion firms have the opportunity to produce their own design and to construct
the structures, is particularly suitable in the case of bridges because of the
existence of a large number of possible competing technical solutions, some
covered by patents, for bridge foundations and superstructures. The method,
which is common in many countries, has been successfully applied in the past
in Madagascar. Engineering consultants will be employed to review the tender
documents, to assist in the analysis and evaluation of bids, and to supervise
construction of the bridges. The use of consultants under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA was confirmed during credit negotiations.
Construction
4.19      The roads and bridges will be built by contractors under unit price
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. For the
road contracts, contractors were prequalified according to their capacity to
bid for one or two road sections, and bids were opened simultaneously for
both road sections on August 30, 1968. The three major bridges were incor-
porated into a single contract, amounting to about US$1.5 million equivalent,
under the "concours de projet et d'execution", and bids are due on October 30,
1968. It is expected that the construction awards will be made around the
end of 1968, and that execution of the works will start with the beginning of
the dry season in April 1969. Completion of the project is expected by the
end of 1971. The difficulty of the terrain, the tight construction schedules
and the standards of design of the roads and bridges will require equipment-
intensive construction methods for all heavy work items.
E. Financing and Disbursement
4.20      The proposed lending is US$8.0 million equivalent composed of a
US$4.5 million equivalent credit and a US$3.5 million equivalent loan, which
together would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The
Government is prepared to cover the remaining costs from its budgetary re-
sources; this was confirmed during negotiations. The Bank/IDA will reimburse
the Government 70 percent of total payments made to contractors and consul-
tants. Any surplus funds remaining in the credit account will be cancelled.
The disbursements from the proposed loan/credit are estimated as follows:



- 17 -
1969    1970   1971     Total
Disbursement, US$ million
equivralent
Credit              2.5    2.0             4.5
Loan                       2.0     1.5     3.5
8.o



- 18 -
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. The Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy Road
5.1       This is a section of RN 1 which starts at Tananarive and runs west
into the highlands of the mid-western region. The Tsiroanomandidy subdistrict,
which falls within the service area of the road, covers about 9,000 km2 and
has a population of about 40,0oo. Of the cash income generated in the area,
about 85 percent is obtained from cattle, the remainder being mainly from
paddy. The Tsiroanomandidy cattle market serves as a staging point for a
much larger area lying to the south and west. In 1966, for example, 83,000
heads of cattle moved through the market "on the hoof" to Tananarive and to
other large consuming areas farther east.
5.2       On the RN 1 traffic is about 800 vehicles per day up to Arivonimano.
It then declines to about 230 light and 90 heavy vehicles on the section to
Analavory. About 5 km west of Analavory, traffic drops off to about 135
vehicles. At this point the road splits into two (see Map 2); about 44 light
and 25 heavy vehicles follow the old road to Tsiroanomandidy, while some 44
vehicles, 31 light and 13 heavy, follow the new FED road.
5.3       The proximity of the Tsiroanomandidy region to Tananarive and to
the population centers in the Central Plateau, its importance as a major
cattle producing area, and the current development plans being executed in
the area, suggest that traffic along the project road will increase consider-
ably in the next few years. A settlement scheme has been prepared within the
area of influence of the proposed road which is designed to draw away same of
the surplus population from the Central Plateau. As a first phase, 600 fam-
ilies will be settled, each being allocated 40 ha, for growing rice, grains,
and livestock.
5.4       The most important future development in the area would be ranching.
Seven such projects are being developed, of which four are currently being
appraised by a Bank mission while FED finance is being sought for the remain-
ing three.  Each would have an area of 25,000 ha.   The seven together would
have an ultimate production of 5-6,000 head of cattle per annum. These
animals would be of high quality and worth transporting by large trailers to
Tananarive once a modern through road is available. Since four of the seven
ranches are to be situated in the immediate zone of influence of the present
road, important new traffic would be generated.
5.5       The traffic which will be using the project road consists of
vehicles travelling between Tsiroanomandidy and Analavory that presently take
either one of the two alternatives now available. Presently the advantage
of one over the other is not pronounced. According to an origin and desti-
nation study undertaken during January 1968, 90 percent of the traffic leaving
Arivonimano on the old road has Tsiroanomandidy as its final destination.
The proportion on the new FED road with a Tsiroanomandidy destination is about
15 percent. During the winter the preference for the old road is due to the
condition of a section between Fanjakamandroso and the junction with the old



- 19 -
road which becomes virtually impassable during the rainy season. In the dry
months the proportions of traffic using the two alternatives are likely to be
reversed. Based on these assumptions, the 1967-traffic base for the new road
would be 66 vehicles.
5.6       No statistics are available showing growth trends for traffic affec-
ted by the proposed road. Direct and indirect evidence suggests that for most
roads in the country traffic volumes have been growing at between 4-10 percent
per annum, with an average of 6 percent. Given the development likely to take
place in the influence zone of the road, and its proximity to Tananarive, it
has been assumed that traffic growth will be 7 percent per annum; and, on this
basis, traffic in the opening year of 1972 would be about 110 light and 30
heavy vehicles. These figures include induced traffic, which is assumed to
be generated proportionately to the expected reductions in vehicle operating
costs.
5.7       The data available in Madagascar on vehicle operating costs have
been prepared by BCEOM and the Ministere de l'Equipement (Table 7). They are
not complete however, both as to types of vehicles and as to different road
conditions. A comparison with figures for neighboring East African countries
shows they are broadly in line and interpolations based on these countries
were used to complete the data on Madagascar. It is estimated that when the
new road is open total operating costs per vehicle will be reduced by about
40-60 percent, depending on the vehicle and the season. Based on an economic
life of 25 years for the road, the expected benefits give a rate of return
of 13 percent.
B.  The Ambanja-Ambilobe Road
5.8       This section of RN 6 serves the subregions of Ambilobe and Ambanja,
which together have an area of 15,600 km2 and a population of 120,000. They
are predominantly agricultural, producing 450,000 tons of sugarcane, bananas,
paddy, all the cocoa and most of the pepper in the island, and large amounts
of subsistence crops. The only industrial activity in the area is a sugar
factory located about 10 km south of Ambilobe which produces 65,000 tons per
annum. It is run by a French firm and employs some 4,000 workers. Most of
its production is exported via Diego Suarez. The most important potential
in the region, affecting the volume of traffic on the proposed road, is the
cultivation of anacarde nuts in the Ambato area. An experimental plantation
of 500 ha run by the above firm has already yielded excellent results. About
20,000 tons of nuts would be produced under the full scheme within the next
8-9 years. A second scheme concerns cocoa in the Sambirano Valley. The
high quality land potential amounts to 40,000 ha. As a first stage, about
4,500 tons of cocoa is expected to be produced by 1973. Other crops, the
production of which is expected to increase, are rice, copra and cotton.
5.9       The 1967 ADT on the road was 91 light and 36 heavy vehicles during
the 8-month dry period, while during the rainy season traffic dropped to
about 47 light and 16 heavy vehicles. The difference is mainly a reflection
of its poor condition during this latter period. An annual growth rate of 6



- 20 -
percent has been assumed for the traffic on this road. Unit savings in
vehicle operating costs have been calculated separately for the dry and wet
seasons. In this case also, induced traffic has been assumed to grow in
direct proportion to the reduction in vehicle operating costs. On these
assumptions the road is expected to have an opening year traffic of 135 light
and 60 heavy vehicles in 1972. Based on an economic life of 25 years, the
road investment would yield an 8 percent rate of return.
5.10      In arriving at this return calculation three potential sources of
additional benefits have not been taken into account; (i) the likelihood that
in the future there will be a partial substitution of the present 3.5 ton
capacity trucks by those of 8 ton capacity which would further reduce ton-
kilometer costs; (ii) the savings in transport costs to an unknown amount of
traffic that is likely to divert from coastal shipping to the road once a
good land connection is available; and (iii) the loss in economic value of
trips which cannot be undertaken when the road is out of service at times
during the wet season. If allowance for these possible benefits could be
taken into account they would probably increase the expected rate of return
on the different sections by 1-2 percent.
C. The Onibe and Fanandrana Bridges
General
5.11      The existing ferry crossings at these two points have some common
characteristics. At both it takes an average 20 minutes to cross the river.
The hourly peak capacity of each of the ferries is about 30 passenger car
units (pcu's). The ferries operate in daylight hours only, and allowing for
hourly fluctuations in daily traffic, the daily working capacity of each
ferry is about 200 pcu's.
5.12      Time costs for vehicles have been estimated on the basis of data
provided by the Malagasy authorities at US$2.50 an hour for light vehicles;
US$3.00 for vans and three-ton trucks; and US$3.80 for five- to six-ton trucks.
The benefits have been taken as only one-half of the hourly costs for light
vehicles and two-thirds of these for trucks, on the assumption that not all
the waiting time experienced at the ferries would be converted to driving
time.
5.13      Construction of the bridges would reduce crossing time from the
present 20 minutes to about one minute or less. If an economic comparison is
made between the present situation (i.e. ferry with limited capacity, oper-
ating for twelve hours) and a bridge, investments on the latter yields a high
rate of return. There are, however, less costly intermediate solutions which
would also reduce waiting time, and with which the proposed bridge projects
need to be compared. These are (i) lengthening the period of ferry operations
from the present 12 to 18 hours, i.e. until midnight, by providing suitable
lighting facilities and thereby increasing daily ferry capacity to 270 pcu's;
and (ii) adding another ferry, which would reduce crossing time from about 20
minutes to 10 minutes in the absence of congestion. The bridges are assumed
to be open to traffic in 1972 and to have an economic life of 25 years.



- 21 -
The Onibe Bridge
5.14      Daily traffic in 1966 averaged 187 vehicles (69 passenger cars,
54 pick-ups and 64 light trucks).  The annual tonnage of goods transported
is small, about 15,000 tons in each direction. Banana production for export
is, however, being developed and may add traffic of 10,000 tons towards
Tamatave in the near future. If the bridge is not built it will be necessary
to operate a second ferry and invest in lighting arrangements to lengthen
crossing time to 18 hours a day by the early seventies. Taking this into
account an economic rate of return of about 11 percent has been calculated
over a useful economic life of 25 years, for that part of the investment
which is above the requirements of an additional ferry and lengthening cros-
sing time. On the basis of the total investment, the rate of return would be
16 percent.
The Fanandrana Bridge
5.15      Local traffic at the bridge site averages 85 vehicles per day (35
are passenger cars, 31 pick-ups and 19 light trucks). Total tonnage hauled
was not more than 10,000 tons in 1965, but banana exports are increasing
rapidly and may add another 10,000 tons by 1970. Assumptions similar to those
for the Onibe crossing regarding growth of traffic would result in an expected
ADT of about 120 vehicles in 1972. The present capacity of the ferry would
be reached during peak hours in the late seventies and the introduction of a
second ferry would be necessary, together with suitable lighting arrangements
to lengthen the crossing period. The rate of return for the bridge investment,
calculated on the above assumptions, is 8 percent on the differential invest-
ment and 12 percent on the total investment. If, however, weight restrictions
on the Tananarive-Tamatave Road are relaxed, the traffic would rise consider-
ably above the normal growth trend, and a substantially higher rate of return
would result.
5.16      The issue of single versus dual lane bridges was studied as part
of the appraisal and the conclusion reached that traffic levels would likely
remain below the economic capacity of a single lane bridge for many years to
come; additional savings in time costs would not justify the estimated cost
of a second lane. If, however, the results of the bidding show that the cost
of the second lane had been overestimated, the result should be reconsidered.
D.   The Ambanja Bridge
5.17      This bridge will connect the population concentration south of
Ambanja, in the Sambirano Valley, with the town itself and with the planta-
tion areas farther north. The 1966/1967 ADT over the river was 105 vehicles,
consisting of 56 cars, 36 minibuses and vans and 13 trucks. The present
temporary wooden structure is improperly protected, making the crossing both
hazardous and slow. In December, as the river rises, the bridge is dismantled
and replaced by a ferry similar to those described above. During January and
February the river is too high for the ferry to operate at all, and in April,
at the end of the rainy season, the ferry is withdrawn and the bridge reas-
sembled.



- 22 -
5.18      The benefits comprise savings in (i) the cost of dismantling and
setting up the bridge every year; (ii) the cost of operating and maintaining
the ferry; (iii) crossing time during the period of ferry operations; and (iv)
during the January-February period, the loss in economic value of trips which
cannot be undertaken when crossing is impossible. On the basis of an assiued
5 percent annual growth rate for traffic and an economic life of 25 years and
the quantifiable benefits under (i), (ii) and (iii) only, an economic rate of
return of 9 percent may be expected.



- 23-
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       The project is well conceived, technically feasible and will yield
a satisfactory economic return. The roads and bridges included in the pro-
posed project form an integral part of the Malagasy road development plans.
The Ministere de L'Equipement et des Communications is capable of super-
vising the project with the assistance of consultants; construction will be
by contract.
6.2       During negotiations, satisfactory assurances were obtained from
the Government that:
(i) the strength and professional standard of the highway
administration will be maintained at appropriate levels,
and the technical education and training of Malagasy
nationals for professional positions will be expanded
(para 3.5);
(ii)  the 1969-1973 five-year highway development plan will be
prepared in accordance with the guidelines agreed upon
with the Bank/IDA concerning resource planning and the
selection of road projects (para 3.21);
(iii) consultations will be held with the Bank/IDA before a
final decision on the question of building single or
double lane bridges is made (para 4.10);
(iv)  consultants satisfactory to the Bank/IDA will be used to
supervise construction of the Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy
Road in case the highway administration is unable to perform
this duty (para 4.16);
(v) consultants satisfactory to the Bank/IDA will be used to
supervise the construction of the Ambilobe-Ambanja Road
and of the bridges (para 4.18);
(vi) the local currency cost of the project will be provided
from the Government's budget resources (para 4.20).
6.3       The project provides a suitable basis for lending by the Bank/IDA
to the Government of the Malagasy Republic in a total amount of us$8.0 mil-
lion equivalent, consisting of a US$4.5 million equivalent credit and a
US$3.5 million equivalent loan. An appropriate period for the loan would
be 30 years including a 10-year grace period.
October 10, 1968






TABLE 1
MADAGASCAR
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Revenues from Thad Users
(in FMf 000,000)
196li                       1966   #2§719
Petrol, gas oil, lube oil         2,306.1    2,458.6    2,566.4    2,954.7
Vehicle Purchases?/                 284.8      383.9      441.5      490.3
Spare Parts and Tiresd'             339.1      304.1      306.8      350.1
Registration FeesW                    9.7        9.3        8.6       10.5
Turnover Tax Vehiclesl               62.8       54.2       61.4       81.1
Turnover Tax Spare Parts/            41.5       22.5       37.4       4o.7
Total                             3,0o44.0   3,2249.6   3,422.1    3,927.4
US$000 Equivalent                12,328.0   13,161.6   13j860.1   15,906.4
Source: Ministry of Finance, unless otherwise indicated
J Based on returns for the first nine months.
2/ Private cars 40% c.i.f. prices, buses 22%, trucks 12e22%
depending on size   provided that vehicles are imported from
Common 1hrket countries. Rates for other sources are 50-300% higher.
/ Tires 27% and spare parts 31% provided that they are imported
from Common 1Arket countries.
2 Estimates based on rates and number of vehicles as provided by
the Ministry of Finance.
/ Estimates based on the two percent turnover tax and customs
revenue data provided by the Ministry of Finance.






TABLE 2
MADAGASCAR
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Highways
1964      1965      1966       1967      1968
in R4G 000000
A. Current Expenditures
Current Maintenance
Primary Roads           48000     460e0     487.0     551J0     555.0
Secondary Roads        414e0      492.9     387.3     496.9     300.0
Tertiary Roads         312.0      322.0     347.0     364.0     400eO
Resurfacing               120.0     100l0     247.0     360.0     380.0
Equipment Purchases        80.0      85.0     272.0     258.o     282.0
Highway Administration    518.0     54o6      571.5     613.2     592.9
Total Current
Expenditures           1,924.0   2,004.5   2,311.8   2,643.1   2,509.9
B.  Road ConstructionV      3,379.0   3,480.0   3,260.0
Total               5,303.0    5,484h5   5,571.8
in US$ 000 Equivalent
Current Expenditure    7,792      8,118     9,363    10,705    10165
Construction
Expenditure           13 p685   14 094    13,203
Total              21,977     27,212    27,566
/ These are actual cash expenditures and diverge to some extent from the
figures that appear in para. 3.19 since the latter are based on cash
comnitments not all of which have been settled. A second source of dis-
crepancy is due to the exclusion of resurfacing expenditures from the
figures above.






TABLE 3
MADAGASCAR
SECOND HIGHMAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration
(Cumulative Number)l/
Pickups
Cars     Buses     Trucks    & vans 2/      Total
Year end: 1958     16,496    1,413     15,616       -         33,525
1959     18,1458   1,565     16,975       -         36,998
1960     20,599    1,673     18,281       -         40,553
1961     22,678    1,795     19,,471      -         43,944
1962     25,117    1,879     20,605       -         h7,601
1963     27,683    1,960     21,656       -         51,299
June 1:   1964     28,984    19998     22,344       -         53,326
January 1:1966     32,117      818     24,200     2,130       59,265
MIotor Vehicle Registration
Distribution by Province for 1966
Pickups
Cars      Buses      Trucks     & vans 2/      Total
Tananarive     19,166       542      10,114       1,307        31,129
Fianarantsoa    2,862       106       3,361        188          6,517
Tamatave        2,757        39       2,913         186         5,895
NIajunga        1,950        19       2,077         113         4,159
Tulear          2,489        78       3,097         200         5,864
Diego Suarez    22893        34       2,638         136         51701
Total          32,117       818      24,200       2,130        59,265
1/ The figures shown in this table, which are the Government
record, represent a cumulative addition of vehicles regis-
tered with the Government as they are put into circulation.
The figures, therefore, are higher than the actual number
of vehicles in circulation in any given year because those
taken out of circulation, on which no record is kept by the
Gpvernment, are not deducted.  The Government estimates that
the number of vehicles actually in circulation was about
45,000 in January 1966.
/ Used also for passenger transport.






TABLE 4
MADAGASCAR
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Fuel Consumption -
(In metvic tons)
Year             Gasoline                 Diesel Oil         Total
1960              68,752                   53,333          122,085
1961              69,817                   51,190          121,007
1962              79,375                   55,952          135,327
1963              78,732                   57,585          136,317
1964              84,212                   64,207          148,419
1965              85,820                   70,501          156,321
1966              86,821                   74,967          161,788
Average annual
growth rate
1960-1966          4.0%                     5 . 9P           4.8%
Source: Ministere de L'Equipment et des Communications
2/ Figures also include consumption which is exempt from taxation.






MADAGASCAR
SEOND HICHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
A. Roads                                                                                          B. Onibe. Fanandrana and Ambanja Bridges
Single lane                  Two lane
Design speed, km/h                         65                                                     Item                                        bridges                   bridges
Stopping sight distmce, m                  75                                                     Access roads                              In accordance with standards set forth
under A
Horizontal carves, minimum radius, m      100
Carriage-way width, m                       3.50                       7.00
Vertical Curves, minimum radius, m
crest                  2,500                                                      Carriage-way clearance, m
sag                     1,000                                                              horizontal                         4.50                       8.50
vertical                            5.00                      5.00
Maximum grades, percent                     8
Sidewalks
Roadway width on tangent, m                 8.50                                                           number                              one on each side of carriage-way
width, m                           0.75                       1.00
Pavement width on tangent, m
base course                6.oo                                                   Passing bay                                 Minimum 60 m long
surfacing                  5.50                                                                                               in central section
of Onibe bridge
Transversal slope, percent
pavement                   3                                                      Design load                                 In accordance with "Cahier des Pres-
shoulders                  4                                                                                                  criptions Communes"
Pavement type, Fanjakamandroso-             Lime stabilized soil subbase, crushed
Tsiroanomandidy Road                      stone base, dense graded bituminous
premix surfacing 60 kg/m2
Pavement types, Ambilobe-Ambanja Road      Selected soil subbase, cement stabilized
soil base and dense graded bituminous
premix surfacing 60 kg/m2, or crushed
stone subbase and base, and double bitu-
minous surface dressing.
Pavement design axle load                  10 ton equivalent
Bridges - Carriage-way width, m             7
Width of sidewalks, m             0.50
Design load                       In accordance with "Cahier des Prescrip-
tions Communes"
Minimum width of right-of-way, m           50






TABLE 6
MADAGASCAR
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
US$ million
FMG million   Equivalent
A. Construction Contracts
1. Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy Road            824         3.34
2. Ambilobe-Ambanja Road                         1,125         4.55
3. Bridges at: Onibe                     155
Fanandrana                139
Ambanja                    83      377          1.53
Subtotal, construction contracts           2,326          9.42
4. Allowance for quantity contingencies           250          loOl
Subtotal, construction contracts including
allowance for quantity contingencies      2,576        10.43
B. Engineering Services for Supervision of Construction
1. Services by the Laboratoire du Batiment
et des Travaux Publics de Madagascar,
Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy Road  15
2. Services by engineering consultants
(a) Ambilobe-Ambanja Road             75
(b) Bridges at Onibe, Fanandrana and
Ambanja                           12      132          o.54
C. Allowance for price contingencies,
about 5 percent on all costs                     135          0.55
Total                                        2,8843       11e52
Rounded off           2,800         11O50






TABLE 7
MADAGASCAR
SECOND HIGHIAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs for Rolling to
Heavy Terrain
in US¢ per km
Light
Vehicle     5T Truck              8T Truck       20T Trailer
Earth to            Earth to
Asphalt   Asphalt   Gravel    Asphalt   Gravel    Asphalt
Fuel              0.8       1.4      2.2        2.2      3.3        2.9
Oil               0.1       0.3      O.4        0.3      0.6        0.3
Tires             0.3       1.6      2.2        2.6      3.6        7.1
Maintenance       0.5       1.0      2.1        1.3      2.6        2.7
Depreciation      1.6       1.9      4.4        2.8      6.5        5.3
Interest         04        0.2      0.5        0.3      0.8        0.7
Insurance         1.0       0.6      2.2        0.8      1.9       07
Wages             0.61/     1.8      4.2        2.1      4.8        2 4
Overheads          -        1.8      3.6        2.5      h.8        4.4
5.3      10.6     21.8       14.9     28.9       26.5
Source: BCEOM - I4inistere de L'Equipment et des Communications.
1 Time costs






MADAGASCAR: HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTERE DE L'EQUIPMENT ET DES COMMUNICATIONS
(MINISTRY   OF PUBLIC     WORKS AND      COMMUNICATIONS)
SERVICE DES ETUDES ECONOMIQUES
- - T  INNCERSOTHER            DEPARTMENTS
( SERVICE OF ECONOMIC AND
FINANCIAL STUDIES)
DIRECTION GENERALE DE L'EQUIPMENT ET DE L'AERONAUTIQUE
(GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC WORKS AND AERONAUTICS)
D N C--                   OTHER DIVISIONS
DIVSO     D
SRIECENTRAL TEC HNI'OUE                                                            DIRECTION DES PONTS ET CHAUSSEES
I                                                                     (DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS)
ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION JAINTEN6NC9
ET DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS                   DIVISION A                              6 ARONDISSEMENTS             (PUBLIC WORKS DIVISIONS         SETRTIELIESPRCS
DES MADAGASCAR            -       (HIGHWAYS-NORTHWEST)                           (6 DIVISIONS)                OF PROVINCES)               DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
(PUBLIC WORKS LABORATORY)                                                          PRIMARY ROADS           SECONDARY AND TERTIARY ROADS        (EOUIPMENT SHOPS)
DIVISION B                               26 SUBDIVISIONS          17EC1L7 PREFECTORIAUX
( HIGHWAYS NORTHEAST)                                                        SUDVSOS
DIVISION C
I HIGHWAYS- SOUtH)9 SCIN
DIVISION D
(PORTS)
JUNE 19689BD32






MAP I
MALAGASY   REPUBLIC             g,tE8r SuAFEZ
HIGHWAY SYSTEM
.---  i A               -,
_E -  ..be'  5t                                          f
A F" R Ii CL A
..eolonana     ..p  .
_- 9                .-        ;rJfISIo      Y                 - . a
Sjst 1g' >8~~~efan/dlA  \:,a'....:a'
y    <   ,   |  X~~~it  Maroantsefta 
; '     P J}  r              ' ., r 7O-  , gtr}   H  1.1-.- . .;Man.;
,   ,- /AmbafaG! ,%  ~ 9       - ba
,. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~v
Mornfenobe  .     /        ,
Ankozobntl6sp |               t; rr.r:l.-l ,,TAMATA E
\oAREA OF MAP 2-                                ,
P Antsolona  -  - --                A j      i1
'S w         V\eR.~  T NAR.                    BRC- W A. oL LE
.   .   j.OP3A   T cR  B  - IORAM
.,   n   ,     ,          s'_ Fwtsh  < . f|x ; ; 
.
.:9~ :e-rh            0        A _________-_____'_.______.;.___
.,  Mania __'        S   o,             >     .ql1.:
g.::: : . -: ^- __r , FIANARANTSOA _
Ni~~~i
z'   /   ~~~OAnkazoabo  Ihosv         '   /
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F                r,  / 1    -              s_,.....,  .i ,-.
JM Oh         idongy-  u-  uOr           -  :, .-.OSr .
A I REPOR T 
- - .1   \   He~~ ki l y,4
OCTOBER  1968                                                                       IBRD  2340  R






MALAGASY REPUBLIC
FANJAIAIANDROSO-TSIROANOiANDIDY ROAD                     MAP 2
Bituminous surfaced roads
Earth roads
* ** * FED-financed road section
Bevoto           * - D   Project road section
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ria an            an
s Tsroonomandldy           A     
/=,8f,      ~M AS SI}F        9¢%
5  \    ~~DAMBOHIBY    
\                  {  ~~~~~~~~~~~(Bebelville)    5
2~~~~~~~~So na rD anos-Q
04lv-,,s,4,
0      p     10    1S      20
MILES
0   Q   II I'   20
KILOMETRES
OCTOBER 1968                                                      IBRD 2294 R






