RESTRICTED
Report No. P-645
FILE C0PY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
BANK LOAN
AND A
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
October 16, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
I NTERN;IZtrl N.. DBV1ELQP.IENT' .P,SOCI ATI ON
REPORT AND RECO12-IEENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED lOAN AND A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TIE NtALAGASY REPUBLIC
1.     I submlt the folloi.ing report and reconmendations on a proposed
operation consisting of a Bank loan, in an amTount in various currencies
equivalent to $3.5 million, and an IDA credit, in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to $L,5 million to the I.alagasy Republic to assist
in financing a second highway project.
PART I - BISTORICAL
2.     The proposed operation would be the fourth operation of the Bank
group in l4adagascar.  In 1966, IDA made a $10.0 million credit tor
the financing of a highway project consisting of the reconstruction of one
section of road. In 1967, the Bank made a $L.8 million loan for education
and early in 1963 made a technical assistance grant for a port study. A
$2.8 million Bank loan for the financing of a livestock project is expected
to be negotiated in the near future.  The following is a sum.rary of the
Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 1968:
Loan or
Credit     Year   Borrower           Purpose        Arount (US $ million)
1:mber                                            B_ank IDA Undisbursed
90MAG      1966   Malagasy Republic  Road Project       10.0      8.8
51OMAG     1967   Malagasy Republic  Education     4.8            b.6
L.8 10.0
Total (less cancellations)
of which has been repaid to
Bank and others
Total now outstanding                   4.8
A1mount sold :
of which has been repaid     -
Total now held by Bank and              4-8  10.0
Total undisbursed                       h.6   8.8      13.4



- 2 -
3.     In 1966 and 1967 the I;alagasy governient submitted various appli-
cations to IDA for the financing of construction of several roads and
bridges and of highway engineering and feasibility studies. NIissions
fror the Bank's Perv,^anent '-iission in East Africa identified a project
which later was a-praised by an IDA mission in February 1968. The project
consisted of the construction of road. sections and bridges and of studies.
Its estirmated cost was $13.0 million of which i.t was proposed that ID A
would finance $9.0 million. Ilowever, due to the delays in the replenishment
of IDA's resources, it was eventually proposed that the project be financed
either with a $9.0 IDA credit subject to replerisBTent or writh a $L.5
million Bank loan and $b.5 million IDA credit immediately available.  The
alternative proposal was discussed with the delegation, headed by the
IWinister of Equipment and Communications, which represented the goverrment
at the negotiations held in September 1968. It was finally agreed (i) to
delete the studies from the project and to have them financed by other
sources and (ii) to finance the project wifth a $4.5 million credit and a
$3.5 million loan.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED FINANCING
L8.    Bank Loan
Borrower:         The Malagasy Republic
Amount:           Equivalent, in vari.us currencies, to $3.5 million.
Dtrpose:          To help finance the construction of two road sections
and three bridges together with the related super-
visory engineering services.
Arnortization:    30 years, including a 10 year period of grace,
through semi-annual instalments beginning October
15, 1978 and ending October 1.5, 1998
Interest rate:    6-1/2% per annum
Commitment charge:3/4 of 1% per amnum
Econor,ic Rate
of return    :    Between 8 and 16 percent  for different parts of
the project.



-3-
5.     IDA credit
Borrower:          The Malagasy Republic
Amount:            Equivalent, in various currencies, to $b.5 million.
Purpose:           To help finance the construction of two road sec-
tions and three bridges together with the related
supervisory engineering services.
Amortization:      Over a period of 50 years, includin- 10 years of
grace, beginning October 15, 1973 and ending
April 15, 2018; each instalment up to and including
the payment due on April 15, 1988, to be 1/2 percent,
thereafter to be 1-1/2 percent of the principal
amount.
Service charge:    3/4 of 1% per annum.
Economic rate      Between 8 and 16 percent, for different parts of
of return   :      the project.
PART III - THE PROJECT
6.     A report on the project, entitled "Second Highway Project - Malagasy
Republic" (TO-667a) is attached.
7.     The proposed project would consist of the construction and bituminous
pavement of the Fanjakomandroso-Tsiromandidy road (55 km) in the Middle-West
and Ambilobe-Ambanja road (9lKm) in the North-West, and of the construction
of three major bridges. The total cost of the project is estimated at the
equivalent of $11.5 million, with a foreign exchange component equivalent
to $8.0 million which would be financed with the proposed Bank loan and
IDA credit. Construction of the project would be carried out over a period
of three years (1969-1971). Awarding of construction contracts would be
on the basis of international competitive bidding and the use of engineering
consultants for the supervision of the construction works would be under
terms and conditions satisfactory to Bank/IDA.
8.     Because of the large size of Madagascar, its rugged topography and
its small, unevenly distributed population, the build-up of a road network
adequate to the requirements of economic development has been a major problem
for the government since independance.  '. hi;-h level of investmre.nt has there-
tore been concentrated on infrastructur6, but until twJo or three vears ~Guo
rost of t1he projects were for the irproverent of trunk roads and wTere primarily
based on non-econolic considerations.   No consideration was paic to projects



which would have been a threat to the monopoly of the railway system. A
new policy has now been worked out under a Program of Major Onerations
according to which more emrhasis is to be placed on the development of
-roductive sectors and more consideration is to be Daid to economic criteria
in the implementation of transportation projects.   The proposed project
would follow the lines of this policy and would make a significant contri-
bution to the modernization of the Malagasy road network as well as to the
development of the agricultural sector. The construction of the Fanjakanandroso-
Tsiromandidy road section would considerably irprove the connections between
the capital city, Tananarive, and the most important cattle rarket of
Tsiromandidy and the surrounding area where the Bank has been requested to
finance a beef cattle development project.   The Ambilobe-Ambanja road section
serves an important agricultural aren for various export crops; it is also
part of the future trunk road which is to link the nothern regions of
Madagascar to Tananarive. One of the three bridges to be constructed under
the project would be located at the southern end of this road section. The
other two wiould be located on the eastern coast and would improve the con-
nections between the port of Tamatave and its hinterland.
9.     The rates of return of the construction works under the proposed
project vary from 8 to 16 percent.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRWUENTS AtD AUTHORITY
10.    Drafts are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately
of: (i) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the N`;alagasy Republic; (ii)
the Development Credit Agreement between the Association and the Mlalagasy
Republic.
11.    The Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the recomnendations of
the Comrittee provided foi in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
A3greement of the Association are also being distributed separately.
12.    The followTing feature of the Loan Agreement is of particular interest:
Section 2.03 (a) of the Loan Agreement provides that no withdrawal shall
be made on account of exoenditures for the Project until the amount of the
Credit shall be fully withdrawn or committed. Otherwise, the draft Loan
and Credit Agreements conform generally to the pattern of agreements for
similar highway projects.
PART V - THE ECONQTMY
13.    A report on "The Economy of the iIalagasy Republic" dated September 10,
1968 (No. AF-83) is being circulated to the Ececutive Directors separately.
1h.    Madagascar is the third largest island in the world.   Population dis-
tribution is very uneven and the average density is low. Agriculture is the
main sector of economic activity (about 1/3 of GDP) and exports are mostly
agricultural, the main ones being coffee, rice, vanilla, sugar and meat



products.  Industry (11% of GDP) is limited to a few plants producing some
of the mass consumntion products and there are no major mineral resources.
The internal transport system is an irs,nediment to economic development as
connections between the various regions of the country are generally
difficult.
15.    The economic growth of the Malagasy Republic has been fairly slow
and incomes per capita have been stationary in the recent years because of
the slow growth of exports, the low rate of public investment concentrated
in infrastructure and the disappointing development performance of the
-priv!ate sector due to the small internal market.  However, the government
is seeking to give a new impetus to the economy by substantially increasing
the amount of public investment. A Program of Major Operations has been
prepared covering a number of large projects, most of which could start
about 1970. Particular emphasis is to be placed on the development of
agriculture, and, within this sector, on livestock development which, so
far, has been neglected.
16.    Due to the probable decline in grant aid, most of additional
resources for investment would have to come from a higher level of foreign
borrowing and from higher public savings. The present t% debt service ratio
is quite modest and would permit borrowing on conventional terms. However,
due to the country's poverty (GDP per inhabitant is $100) and the poor
export prospects for the next five years, such borrowing should be limited
and should be on terms including reasonably long grace periods.  Most of
the necessary external borrowing should therefore be on non-conventional
terms.
PART VI - CO14PLIANCE WETH ARTICLES OF AGREEIENT
17.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the A3sociation.



PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
18.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following reso-
lutions:
RESOLUTION No -
Approval of a Loan to the Malagasy Republic in
an amount equivalent to US $ 3,500,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the V5alagasy Republic in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred
thousand dollars (US $3,500,000), to mature on and prior to October 15, 1998
to bear interest at the rate of six and a half nercent (6-1/2%) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Second Highway Project) between the Malagasy Republic and the
Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
RESOLUTION No
Aoproval of a Development Credit to the Malagasy
Republic in an amount equivalent to US $4,500,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the Malagasy
Republic in an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million five
thousand dollars (US $L,500,000), to mature on and prior to April 15, 2018,
to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/b of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
in the form of Developnent Credit Agreement (Second Highway Project) betwieen
the Malagasy Republic and the Association, which has been presented to
this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment



