CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1470 PAN
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
Dated July 1, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM2NT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (hereinafter
called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Electricity Legislation" means Decree Law No. 31 of
1958, Law No. 37 of 1961, Decree No. 535 of 1960, Cabinet Decree
No. 235 of 1969 and Decree No. 20 of 1976, all as amended up to
the date of this Agreement;
(b) the term "Program" means (i) the projects financed by
the Bank under Loan No. 661 PAN, Loan No. 948 PAN and this Loan;
(ii) the complementary works referred to in Section 3.09 of
this Agreement; (iii) the La Estrella and Los Valles hydroelectric
projects, and associated transmission facilities to the city of


﻿-3-
David; and (iv) for the period 1977-1983 (1) sub-transmission
lines and sub-stations estimated to cost in the aggregate not in
excess of $31 million, with annual disbursements therefor not to
exceed in any one fiscal year $8 million in the aggregate, and (2)
distribution facilities, rural electrification and minor projects
estimated to cost in the aggregate not in excess of $147 million,
with annual disbursements therefor not to exceed in any one fiscal
year $30 million in the aggregate; and
(c) "Balboas" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in preparing
final designs for the Project, supervising construction of civil
works and transmission systems, preparing bidding documents
and procuring civil works and equipment, the Borrower shall
employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. In addition, the Borrower shall, during the carrying out
of the Project, consult its advisory board of consultants, the
composition of which shall at all tim'. be satisfactory to the
Bank, with regard to specially difficult technical problems
related to the construction of La Fortuna hydroelectric plant.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed ont of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-7-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, i-stallations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required icr the construc-
tion (and operation) of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.06. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Bank, take all reasonable measures (including the measures
recommended in the ecological report for the Project of the Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory) necessary on its part to ensure that the
Project is carried out with due regard to ecological and environ-
mental factors.
Section 3.08. After the La Fortuna civil works have been
completed, the Borrower shall make arrangements, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the periodic inspection
of such works by internationally recruited experts, such inspec-
tion to be carried out with particular emphasis on the structural
safety of the dam.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall take all action neces-
sary to ensure that the complementary works shall be completed and
placed into operation no later than June 1980.


﻿-9-
(b) For purposes of this Section, the term "complementary
works" means the following works:
(i) David-Llano Sanchez double circuit 230 kV transmis-
sion line about 195 km long;
(ii) David sub-station with two 70 MVA 230/115/34.5
kV transformers and switchgear;
(iii) La Chorrera and Panama sub-stations uprating
from 115 to 230 kV; and
(iv) Llano Sanchez 230/115/34.5 kV sub-station.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business, financial, engineering and public utility practices,
under the supervision of experienced and qualified management, and
with the assistance of adequate, qualified and experienced staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its existence and right to carry on operations and shall, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and property, and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound public
utility and engineering practices; and shall at all times maintain
its financial position and plan the future expansion of its power


﻿- 11 -
activities, all in accordance with sound business and public
utility practices.
Section 4.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
analysis and strengthening of its organization and management
functions, its training activities, and its accounting and
financial policies and practices, the Borrower shall employ
management and accounting consultants acceptable to the Bank upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on the
conclusions and recommendations of the consultants referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section and shall agree with the Bank on a
schedule for their implementation.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not, until the Project has been completed, under-
take or cause to be undertaken on its behalf, any major expansion
project not included in the Program, the capital investments
for which shall exceed 1% of the Borrower's revalued gross fixed
assets in operation unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such major expansion
project is economically justified and that adequate financial,
technical and managerial resources therefor will be available to
the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) The Borrower shall revalue its fixed assets at least
once every year using consistently applied revaluation methods
satisfactory to the Bank and shall enter any such revaluation
in its books of account.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.


﻿- 13 -
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not:


﻿- 14 -
(a) incur any short-term debt if, after the incurrence of
such short-term debt, all short-term debt of the Borrower then
outstanding, including the short-term debt to be incurred, would
exceed one-sixth of the Borrower's cash operating, maintenance and
administrative expenses during the twelve-month period prior to
such incurrence; and
(b) incur any long-term debt unless its net revenue for
the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period prior to such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less than 1.4 (one and four-tenths) times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt, including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "long-term debt" means all debt maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date
on which it is incurred, and the term "short-term
debt" means all debt (including debt payable on
demand) incurred in the ordinary course of business
and maturing by its terms one year or less than one
year after the date on which it is incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a loan
contract or agreement on the day such debt becomes
outstanding and repayable in accordance with such


﻿- 15 -
contract or agreement, and under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providingC
for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the guaranteed debt is out-
standing;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means all revenues of the
Borrower, excluding the subsidy, adjusted to take
account of rates in effect at the time of the
calculation even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating and
administrative expenses, including provision for
taxes, if any, but before provision covering
depreciation, interest and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "subsidy" means the subsidy referred to
in Article 7 (d) of Cabinet-Decree No. 235 dated
July 30, 1969;
(v)  the term "maximum debt service requirement" means
the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt; and
(vi) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of balboas, debt


﻿- 16 -
payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall not sell electricity
to bulk consumers at prices which are lower than the actual
marginal cost thereof.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in studying the costs
of supplying electricity and the link between such costs and the
fixing of prices for the sale thereof, the Borrower shall, by
December 31, 1977, retain and thereafter employ, consultants
acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, the findings of such consultants to be furnished to the
Bank, with the Borrower's comments thereon, by June 30, 1979.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
or desirable on its part to maintain no more than 60 days of
electricity billings outstanding and unpaid.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall from time to time take all steps necessary or
desirable, to obtain such adjustments in its rates for the sale of
electricity as will provide revenues sufficient to yield an annual
rate of return on the average of the net value of fixed assets in


﻿- 17 -
operation, plus working capital amounting to three months' re-
venues, of 7% during 1977, 8% during 1978, and 8.75% during 1979
and thereafter.
(b)   For the purposes of This Section:
(i) the rate of return in respect of any fiscal year
will be calculated by relating the Borrower's
net income from operations for that year to the
average value of the total net fixed assets in
operation during that fiscal year;
(ii) the term "net income from operations" means
gross operating revenue, less all operating
and administrative expenses including adequate
maintenance, straight-line depreciation, taxes
and levies, if any, or any payments in lieu there-
of, but without deduction of interest or other
charges on debt;
(iii) the term "average of the net value of fixed assets
in operation" means: one-half the sum of (A) the
value of the Borrower's gross fixed assets in
operation determined in accordance with methods of
valuation and revaluation satisfactory to the Bank
less accumulated depreciation calculated on a
straight-line basis at rates satisfactory to the


﻿- 18 -
Bank at the beginning of the calendar year, plus
(B) the value of the gross fixed assets in opera-
tion so determined less accumulated depreciation so
calculated at the end of the year in question;
provided, however, that when a major asset shall be
brought into operation during the year, the value
of such asset shall be included in the foregoing
computation in respect of that part of the year
during which such asset shall have been in opera-
tion;
(iv) the term "revenues" means all revenues of the
Borrower, excluding the subsidy; and
(v) the term "subsidy" has the same meaning as in
paragraph (b) (iv) of Section 5.04 of this Agree-
ment.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the
purpose of obtaining the necessary finaning required, in addition
to the Loan, for purposes of the Project and the complementary
works provided for in Section 3.09 of this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Electricity Legislation or any provision thereof
shall have been changed so as to affect materially and adversely
the operations or financial condition of the Borrower or the
carrying out of the Project; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate


﻿- 20 -
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agrement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) either of the events specified in paragraph (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for retaining
the consultants required under Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement
have been made;
(b) arrangements satisfactory to .he Bank for ensuring
timely payment of public sector electricity bills have been made;
and
(c) arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for obtaining
all necessary financing for purposes of the Project have been
made.
Section 7.02. The date September 30, 1977, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Instituto de Recursos Hidrdulicos
y Electrificaci6n
Apartado 5285
Panama 5, Panama
Cable address:                       Telex:
IRHE                                2158, IRHE PA
Panama


﻿- 23 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS
Y ELECTRIFICACION
By Is/ Edwin Fabrega
Authorized Representative


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Construction of River        18,400,000          76% (repre-
Diversion, Dam and                              senting the
Spillway                                       estimated
foreign ex-
penditure
component)
(2) Ancillary Electro-            6,600,000          100% of foreign
mechanical Equipment                            expenditures
for Generating Plant;
Erection and Installa-
tion
(3) Equipment for La              7,200,000         100% of foreign
Fortuna Switchyard,                            expenditures
La Fortuna-David
Transmission Line
and Enlargement of
Panama Substation;
Erection and Instal-
lation
(4) Engineering Services          1,900,000          100% of foreign
for items (a) and (b)                          expenditures
of Part A and for
Part B of the Project


﻿- 25 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Consulting Services           1,200,000         100% of foreign
for Organizational                             expenditures
Imprbvement Program
(6) Consulting services,            300,000         100% of foreign
overseas fellow-                               expenditures
ships, and equip-
ment for training
(7) Unallocated                   6,400,000
TOTAL        42,000,000


﻿- 26 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in


﻿- 27 -
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.   The Project consists of a hydroelectric generating plant at
La Fortuna site about 35 km northeast of the city of David,
together with related transmission facilities.
2.   The Project includes:
Part A:   La Fortuna Generating Plant
(a) Diversion works consisting of a rockfill
cofferdam about 20 m high and a diversion
tunnel about 280 m long;
(b) A rockfill dam designed to impound about 13
million M3 of water, with ungated spillway;
(c) Power tunnel about 6 km long, surge tank, and
penstock about 1.4 km long;
(d) Underground power house with 3 generating
units of about 85 MW generating capacity each
and necessary electromechanical equipment,
and an access tunnel about 1.65 km long;
(e) Tailrace tunnel about 8.3 km long; and
(f) Access road, camp, and other necessary minor
works.


﻿- 29 -
Part B:   La Fortuna Transmission System
(a) 230 kV switchyard at La Fortuna;
(b) 230 kV double-circuit transmission line
about 41 km long from La Fortuna to David
sub-station; and
(c) Enlargement of Panama City sub-station with
one 175 MVA 230/115 kV transformer and
switchgear facilities.
Part C:   Other
The Project also includes the Borrower's organiza-
tional improvement program and consultant services,
overseas fellowships, and equipment for the training of
its staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1981
through   February 15, 1994                   1,555,000
On August 15, 1994                                 1570,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               2.90%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                               5.30%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                               7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                               8.20%


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines) including the pertinent
provisions of the General Introduction thereto, on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
B.   Review of Procurement De.isions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts costing more than $100,000 equivalent:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 33 -
(b) After bids hive been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compar-
ison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Botrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its


﻿- 34-
execution and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   The Borrower shall, before issuance of bidding documents
for procurement of goods and services for the complementary
works referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement and the
main generating equipment for Part A of the Project which are to
be financed by suppliers' credits, seek the Bank's approval of
such documents.


