CREDIT NUMBER 134 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 134 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1968


﻿Ufrorloipment Turbit Ag~rerurut
AGREEMENT, dated November 12, 1968, between the
MALAGASY RPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association
and International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment (hereinafter called the Bank) to assist in the financing
of a highway project as described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
WHEREAS the Association and the Bank have agreed to
make available to the Borrower eight million dollars
($8,000,000) to assist in such financing in the form of a
credit of four million five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000) granted by the Association and a loan of three
we                  million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) made
by the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan), on the terms
and conditions set foith hereinafter and in the loan agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Bank of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement);
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 of the Association dated June 1, 1961
as amended February 9, 1967 (said Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 being hereinafter called the Credit Regu-
lations), with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a devel-
opment credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to four million five hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Credit Account the amount of the
Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the
rights of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this
Development Credit Agreement and the Credit Regula-
tions and in accordance with the Allocation of Proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Development Credit Agreement, as such allocation shall be
modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of
such Schedule or by further agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Association.
SECTIoN 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the rea-
:sonable cost of goods requiied for carrying out the Project
and to be financed under this Development Credit Agree-
ment the equivalent of seventy per cent (70o) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be
made) for expenditures under Categories 1 and 2 of said
Schedule 2, provided, however, that if there shall be an
increase in the estimate of expenditures under either such
Category, the Association may by notice to the Borrower
adjust the above percentage as required in order that with-
drawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the
expenditures remaining to be made under such Category.


﻿5
(b) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, no withdrawals shall be
made on account of :
(i) expenditures made prior to the date of this Devel-
ment Credit Agreement; or
(ii) expenditures made in the territories of any country
which is not a member of the Bank (except Switzer-
land) or for goods produced in (including services
supplied from) such territories.
SECTIoN 2.04. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of paragraph
(a) of Section 3.02 of the Credit Regulations.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTIoN 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October
15 commencing October 15, 1978 and ending April 15, 2018,
each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 1988 to be one-half of one per cent (  of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (11/2%) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of this Development Credit Agreement to expenditures


﻿6
required to carry out the Project, described in Schedule 1
to this Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the " Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in February 1968, and as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering, administrative and financial prac-
tices, and shall make available, promptly as needed, all
funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) To assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
:shall employ or cause to be employed competent and expe-
rienced consultants acceptable to the Association, to an
extent, and upon such ternis and conditions as shall have
been approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall cause Parts I and II of the
Project, as described in Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, to be carried out by contractors accept-
able to the Association, employed under contracts which
shall have been approved by the Association.
(d) The supervision of the carrying out of Parts I(b)
and II of the Project shall be performed by competent and


﻿7
experienced consultants employed in accordance with para-
graph (b) of this Section and that of Part I(a) of the Proj-
ect shall be performed by the Borrower's Ministry of
Equipment (Service Central Technique), provided, how-
ever, that if the Association shall decide that this task
exceeds the powers of said Ministry, such supervision shall
be performed by consultants employed pursuant to para-
graph (b) above.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
reports, plans, specifications, contract documents, and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(f) The general design standards to be applied to the
Project shall be as determined from time to time by agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect, in ac-
cordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the operations and financial condition of the
agency or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof; shall
enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods and any relevant records and documants;
and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Asoocia-
tion all such information as the Association shall roason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Project, the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and the operations and finan-
cial condition of the agency or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part
thereof.


﻿8
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times ado-
quately maintain and repair or cause to be adequately
maintained and repaired its highway system, in accordance
with sound engineering standards and with due regard to
financial and economic requirements.
(b) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be rea-
sonably required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-
loads of vehicles using its highway system shall be con-
sistent with the structural and geometric design standards
of the roads used.
(c) The Borrower shall collect and record in ac. 'nce
with appropriate statistical methods and procedu-:, such
technical, economic and financial information as shall be
reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance,
improvements and extensions of its highway system.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to


﻿9
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower undertakes to have the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit insured against marine, transit and other hazards
incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.06. (a) The principal of, and service charges
on, the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories and free from all restrictions
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
(b) This Development Credit Agreement shall be free
from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
SECTION 4.07. The decision whether the bridges in the
Project will be single or dual lane shall be made on the basis
of bid offers and by agreement of the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or -ragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Credit Regula-
tions or Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and
sqall continue for a period of thirty day., or (ii) if any
event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of the
Credit Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a


﻿10
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then, at any
subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Asso-
ciation, at its option, may declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
and upon any such declaration such principal shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. The following additional event is speci-
fied for the purposes of Sectic  5.02 (k) of the Credit
Regulations:
A default shall have occurred in the performance by the
Borrower of any covenant or agreement on its part under
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b)
of the Credit Regulations:
The execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action.
SECTION 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the Credit
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
That the Loan Agreemeat has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and that such Agreement constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its
terms.


﻿11
SECTION 6.03. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by February 5,
1969, this Development Credit Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association, after consideration of the reasons for the
delay, establishes a later date for the purposes of this
Section. The Association shall promptly notify the Bor-
rower of such later date.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1972 or such other date as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Credit Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre des Finances et du Commerce
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic
Alternative address for cables:
Minfincom
Tananarive
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United)States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of Finance and Commerce
of the Borrower is designated for the purposes of Section
7.03 of the Credit Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
MALAGAsY REPUBLIC
By /s/ R. G. RALisON
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Project
The Project consists of :
I. The construction and bituminous paving of the follow-
ing roads:
(a) The Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy road
(about 55 km long) ; and
(b) The Ambilobe-Ambanja road (about 91 km long).
II. The construction of major bridges with their ap-
proaches at:
(a) Onibe;
(b) Fanandrana; and
(c) Ambanja.
III. Engineering services, mostly supplied by consultants,
for the supervision of the execution of 6he above
described Parts I and II of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1971.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
Amounts Expressed
Category                           in Dollar Equivalent
1. Construction Works                 $6,600,000
2. Supervision of Construction          320,000
3. Unallocated                         1,080,000
Total:    $8,000,000
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
1. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided under Article II of this
Development Credit Agreement, and shall be applied to
expenditures under any of the Categories of this Schedule,
until the total of withdrawals shall have reached the equiva-
lent of $4,500,000.
Allocation of Proceeds of the Loan
2. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided under Article II of the Loan
Agreement and shall be applied to expenditures under any
of the Categories of this Schedule incurred after the
amount of the Credit shall have been exhausted.
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
3. If the estimates of the cost of the items included in
Category 1 or 2 shall decrease, the amount of the Credit
then allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated to Category 3 by the Association or by
the Bank, as the case may be.
4. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Category 1 or 2 shall increase, an amount equal to the
portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the Association


﻿15
or by the Bank, as the case may be, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from Category 3, subject, how-
ever, to the requirements fcr contingencies, as determined
by the Association and by the Bank, in respect of the cost
of the items in the other Category.


