Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16837
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2106-GUI)
June 30, 1997
Technical Agriculture Cluster III
Country Department 16
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GF)
US$ 1.00 = GF 590 (at negotiations, April 1990)
US$ 1.00 = 1,000 GF (at closing, May 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFVP            -     Association Francaise des Volontaires du Progres
BTGR            -     Bureau Technique du Genie Rural
CFD                   Caisse Francaise de Developpement (France)
DNGR            -     Direction Nationale du G6nie Rural
FAC             -     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
IDA                   International Development Association
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
ILO                   International Labor Organization
KfW             -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany)
lMAEF                 Ministry of Agriculture, Water, and Forestry
MARA            -     Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources
MTTP            -     Ministry of Transport and Public Works
NGO             -     Non-governmental Organization
NRIP                  National Rural Infrastructure Project
SMCs            -     Small- and Medium-Scale Contractors
SNAPE           -     Service National d'Amenagement des Points d'Eau
SPTP            -     Societe Pilote de Travaux Publics
TA                    Technical Assistance
UME             -     Unite Mobile Ecole
UNICEF                United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           -     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice President - Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director - Mamadou Dia
Division Chief/Manager - Jean-Paul Chausse
Staff Member - Mathurin Gbetibouo, Economist



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2106-GUI
Table of Contents
Preface ................................................................
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                       ii
PART I: ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.1
A.   Project Objectives ................................................1
B.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives .............................. 1
C.    Achievement of Objectives ....................................,                      3
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. .     ................................... 7
E.    Project Sustainability ...................................                          9
F.    Bank Performance ...................................                                9
G.   Borrower's Performance .10-.................................... 10
H.   Assessment of Outcome ...................... - - ----.10
I.  Future Operation .....................                                               11
J.  Key Lessons Learned .....................                                            1 1
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .................................... 13
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments    *           ......................... 13
Table 2:  Related Loans/Credits .......................................    14
Table 3: Project Timetable                ..                       ................. 15
Table 4: Disbursements ....................                                              16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .....       ............ .          16
Tabie 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .         .      .       ....             18
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project           ....................................... 1 8
Table 8A: Project Costs ................19
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................................. 19
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................... 19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................... 20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .. .................. 23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................... 23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions *--------...                                         23
Appendices:
A. ICR Mission Aide-memoire ........................................... 25
B. Borrower's Project Completion Report (Summary) ......................... 34
Maps - IBRD 21840R121841 R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






-1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2106-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Rural Infrastructure Project in
the Republic of Guinea, for which Credit 2106-GN in the amount of SDR 31.3 million (US$40.0 million
equivalent) was approved on April 30, 1990, and became effective on December 28, 1990.
The Credit was closed on May 31, 1997, seventeen months after the originally scheduled closing
date. The last disbursement is scheduled for September 1997.
Parallel financing of the Project was provided by the United States Agency for Development
(US$27.0 million), the Fonds d'aide et de coop6ration (US$0.5 million) and the Caisse Francaise de
Developpement , and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (US$6.8 million).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Alpha I. Bah (Consultant, Road Engineer) under the supervision of
Mathurin Gbetibouo (Team Leader), and assisted by a team of AFTA3 composed of Joseph Toledano
(Agronomist) and Guillemette Rohan.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision/completion mission led by
Mathurin Gbetibouo, October 1996 and comprising Joseph Toledano (lowland development), Surakate
Bangoura (institutional development), Amadou Diallo (rural water and sanitation). A second mission in
January 1997 conducted by Alpha Bah and Michel Larcher focused exclusively on the rural road
component and road maintenance strategy. It is based on materials in the project files, field visits, and
interviews with Government officials and staff members of the PNIR who worked closely with the mission.
The mission's aide-memoire is attached as Appendix A. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by participating in the completion mission and preparing its own evaluation of the project
implementation (Appendix B).



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2106-GUI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    At the advent of the Second Republic in Guinea in 1984 most of the country's transport
infrastructure was badly deteriorated and the institutions responsible for planning, operating, and
maintaining it needed to be overhauled. Following on two earlier operations to help the
Government re-establish essential transport services, IDA approved support for the National
Rural Infrastructure Project (NRIP) on March 20, 1990.
Project Objectives
2.    The NRIP's objectives were to assist the Government in implementing policies in the
rural infrastructure sub-sector by reinforcing the capacity of institutions involved in the sub-
sector; implementing a specific rural infrastructure investment program; and formulating,
through master plans and pilot programs, coherent frameworks to integrate rural infrastructure
operations and enlist grassroots participation.
3.    The NRIP included three components: (i) strengthening the capacity of two institutions
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources, the Direction Nationale du Genie Rural
(Rural Engineering Directorate--DNGR) and the Service National d'Amenagement des Points
d'Eau (Rural Water Supply Agency--SNAPE), through construction and renovation of offices
and facilities, provision of equipment and furniture, and technical assistance and staff training at
the central level and in their decentralized services, as well as in other concerned technical
ministries, in particular the Ministry of Transport and Public Works, private sector contractors,
Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs), and community organizations; (ii) implementing an
investment and maintenance program for the rehabilitation and maintenance of 2,600 kilometers
of feeder roads, the development of 2,100 hectares of bottomland, the drilling of 220 boreholes
and equipping them with handpumps for some 140 villages, and implementing two small
community piped water supply systems with sanitation components; and (iii) studies and pilot
activities for the preparation of a Feeder Roads Master Plan for future investments, development
of labor-based construction methods, involving participation of grassroots organizations,
contractors, and NGOs in the maintenance and rehabilitation of feeder roads, promotion of the
emergence of small- and medium-scale contractors (SMCs), implementing a pilot NGO-
supported bottomland development program, and the definition of a national strategy for rural
water supply and sanitation development.



- iii -
4.    The project's objectives were in line with both the Government's policies and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. The NRIP was the first attempt to implement a national rural
infrastructure strategy and foster a comprehensive approach to rural infrastructure development.
It was consistent with the Government's development policies, spelled out in the 1991 Letter of
Agricultural Development Policy, which included the following key elements: (i) a
comprehensive approach to sub-sector development; (ii) decentralization; (iii) promotion of the
national construction industry; and (iv) building administrative capacity in order to reduce the
need for external expertise. The risks to the achievement of projecct objectives were the fragility
of Government institutions, shortage of trained staff, inability or unwillingness of villagers to pay
for handpumps, and the availability of counterpart funds. Most of these risks were addressed as
part of project design and the Government's commnitment to improve public finance
management. The project was to be implemented over five years and was expected to cost
US$82.5 million. Financing was to be provided by IDA (US$40.0 million), the Kasse fir
Wiederaufbau (US$6.8 million), the United States Agency for International Development
(US$27.0 million), the Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (US$0.5 million), project beneficiaries
(US$1.0 million) and Government (US$13.5 million).
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The NRIP's objectives were substantially achieved.  DNGR and SNAPE were
strengthened and their capacity built up both at the central and regional levels. The foundation
was laid for the active participation of decentralized administrative units and beneficiaries in the
selection, construction, and maintenance of rural infrastructure. SMCs were supported with
training and awarding of contracts. Force-account works were discontinued and 100 percent of
road construction is now being carried out by SMCs, NGOs, and grassroots organizations. A
Rural Roads Master Plan was developed and is serving as an essential tool for programming rural
road investment and maintenance prograns. Rural road construction and maintenance standards
were adopted. A new road classification system, proposed under the project, will help clarnfy
road maintenance responsibilities between Government ministries and rural communities. Pilot
activities, produced encouraging results in participatory community approaches and the prospects
for decentralization and sustainability.
6.    The NRIP's physical objectives were substantially achieved, although the road
component was scaled back because of a shortfall in donor cofinancing, delays in launching
contracts, and cumbersome procurement arrangements. A strategy for rural water supply and
sanitation development was not defined; instead the Government adopted targets of the United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) for per capita water consumption and is using them to plan
borehole investments. Road improvement opened up new markets, increased marketing
activities (traders in local markets increased by 163 percent), helped raise agricultural production
(113 percent), and reduced travel time (sixfold) and transportation costs (about 50 percent). For
villagers along rehabilitated roads 77 percent now have health centers and 95 percent have
schools against 29 and 46 percent respectively before the project. Bottomland development
exceeded the target, producing a 61 percent increase in cultivated area for 4,000 farmers,



- iv -
contributing to increased crop yields and decreased upland deforestation. Borehole and
handpump targets were exceeded slightly; 86 percent of villages along the roads which have been
rehabilitated now have potable water, compared with 34 percent before the project. The project
raised rural incomes through employment on infrastructure using labor-based methods.
7.    Actual project costs are estimated at US$100.5 million, with IDA financing US$43.5
million, KfW US$9.3 million, USAID US$23.8 million, FAC US$5.0 million, Beneficiaries
US$0.6 million, and Government US$18.3 million. No economic rate of return (ERR) was
estimated at appraisal for the project as a whole, instead, separate estimates were made of the
feeder road and bottomland development components. Appraisal estimates for these two
components were 15.7 and 23.2 percent respectively. The ex-post evaluation has found that
benefits resulting from the project exceed appraisal estimates and that the ERR is therefore
higher than originally estimated.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    The outcomes of the NRIP are improved sector management, successful decentralization
of operations and management, development of SMCs, community participation, employment
creation, and a revived rural economy. Achievements of NRIP are likely to be sustainable,
except for feeder road maintenance, for which the Government needs to mobilize more local
resources and strengthen or establish new mechanisms for their allocation and disbursement and
provide adequate financing for the Road Fund. Continued donor support will also be important.
9.    Bank and Borrower performance was satisfactory overall. The Government has proposed
to the donors a medium term rural infrastructure development program as a logical follow-up
operation to consolidate the positive results of earlier projects. A follow-up community-based
rural infrastructure project is presently under preparation by IDA. This project would support
expansion and maintenance of rural transport and water and sanitation infrastructure, with the
full involvement of community organizations, as well as other social and economic infrastructure
identified by stakeholders.
10.   The key lessons learned are:
(i)   A broad country-wide approach to improving rural infrastructure has a high
impact on the supply response of agriculture production and service delivery, as shown by the
USAID-financed Project Impact Study on the NRIP.
(ii)   Assigning responsibility for project implementation to agencies within the
existing institutional framework can work well, provided they have adequate operational
resources and an improved work environment.
(iii)  Labor-based feeder road development is a most suitable entry point for the
development of a private construction industry, provided multi-year contracts can be concluded.



(iv)   Sustainability in privatizing rural works construction and maintenance cannot be
assured without a multi-year work program and facilities for renting equipment.
(v)   Works carried out by labor-based methods versus conventional equipment-based
methods are often of equal quality, easier to maintain, probably no more costly, create at least
three times as much employment; stimulate the local economy, and have no direct negative
impact on the environment; their disadvantage is that they are slow to execute.
(vi)  In the resource-constrained environment of a country undergoing structural
adjustment, establishment of a Road Fund is necessary to ensure a steady and timely availability
of resources for maintaining the road infrastructure. However, channeling the funds through the
Ministry of Finance account is likely to defeat the purpose of establishing such a fund.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2106-GUI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    At the advent of the Second Republic in Guinea in 1984 most of the country's transport
infrastructure was badly deteriorated and the institutions responsible for planning, operating, and
maintaining it needed to be overhauled. The rural sector is the mainstay of Guinea's economy,
providing a livelihood to over 75 percent of the population and generating about 30 percent of
the Gross National Product. Despite the favorable climate and agro-ecological diversity which
offer wide possibilities for growth in the rural sector, performance had been disappointing,
resulting in low rural incomes (about US$ 150 per capita, per year, on average) and an alarming
high rate of urban migration. Lack of rural infrastructure and especially the dilapidated condition
of rural roads have been major constraints to Guinea's economic development. Following on
two earlier operations to help the Government re-establish essential transport services, IDA
approved support for the National Rural Infrastructure Project (NRIP) on March 20, 1990.
B. Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.    The NRIP's objectives were to assist the Government in implementing policies in the
rural infrastructure sub-sector by reinforcing the capacity of institutions involved in the sub-
sector, implementing a specific rural infrastructure investment program, and formulating,
through master plans and pilot programs, coherent frameworks to integrate rural infrastructure
operations and enlist grassroots participation.
3.    The project included three components. (i) strengthening the capacity of two institutions
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MARA), the Direction Nationale du Genie
Rural (National Rural Engineering Directorate--DNGR) and the Service National
d'Amenagement des Points d'Eau (National Rural Water Supply Service--SNAPE), through
construction and renovation of offices and facilities, provision of equipment and furniture, and
technical assistance (TA) and staff training at the central level and in their decentralized services,
as well as in other concerned technical ministries, in particular the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works (MTTP), private sector contractors, Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs), and
community organizations; (ii) an investment and maintenance program for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of 2,600 kilometers of feeder roads, development of 2,100 hectares of bottomland,
drilling of 220 boreholes and equipping them with handpumps for some 140 villages, and
implementation of two small community piped water supply systems with sanitation



2
components; and (iii) studies and pilot activities for the preparation of a Feeder Roads Master
Plan for future investments; development of labor-based construction methods involving
participation of grassroots organizations, contractors, and NGOs in the maintenance and
rehabilitation of feeder roads; and promotion of the emergence of small- and medium-scale
contractors (SMCs); implementation of a pilot NGO-supported bottomland development
program; and the definition of a national strategy for rural water supply and sanitation
development.
4.    The NRIP's objectives were line with both the Government's policies and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. The NRIP was the first project in Guinea to implement a national
rural infrastructure strategy and foster a comprehensive approach to rural infrastructure
development. It was consistent with the Government's development policies, spelled out in the
1991 Letter of Agricultural Development Policy: comprehensive approach to sub-sector
development, decentralization, promotion of the national construction industry, and building
administrative capacity in order to reduce the need for external expertise.
5.    Project objectives were clear and in line with the Government's agricultural sector
strategy. But they were quite ambitious, given the institutional environment, a weak human
resource base, cumbersome administrative and procurement procedures, the requirement to
contract out works that entailed creation from scratch of a network of small contractors, and the
potential difficulties in supervising and monitoring physical works scattered over 16 of the 33
prefectures in all four natural regions of the country.
6.    The main risks to the achievement of objectives was the fragility of Government
institutions and the shortage of trained staff. Both of these risks were mitigated by the project's
design which provided for significant institutional support, training, and TA. The borehole
component carried the risk that villagers would not be able or willing to pay the substantial
financial contribution required for the purchase of handpumps (GF 50,000), thereby undermining
the establishment of a viable maintenance system. This risk was to be minimized through
intensive sensitization of villagers. The last risk concerned the timely availability of counterpart
fumding. This risk was minimized by the fact that the Government was taking drastic steps to
improve public finance management under its Structural Adjustment Program and the
participation of beneficiaries in the project NRIP would decrease the Government's share of local
funding. The project was to be implemented over five years and was expected to cost US$82.5
million. Financing was to be provided by IDA (US$40.0 million), the Kasse flir Wiederaufbau
(US$6.8 million), the United States Agency for International Development (US$27.0 million),
the Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (US$0.5 million), project beneficiaries (US$1.0 million) and
Government (US$13.5 million).



3
C.   Achievement of Objectives
7.    The NRIP objectives were substantially achieved. The intimate association of nationals
in all phases of the project cycle helped to foster a sense of ownership and also revealed the full
dimension of the needs and constraints in administrative capacity that had to be addressed to
meet the project objectives. In an environment of budgetary constraint, it is a credit to the
Government that it met its commitment to provide counterpart funding in an adequate and timely
manner. Project implementation, through the institutional framework of DNGR and SNAPE,
two entities which were decentralized under the Government's administrative reform program,
laid the basis for future decentralized rural sector management. The project was substantially
executed as envisaged at appraisal, except for the length of roads to be rehabilitated; this was
initially reduced from 2,600 km to 1,935 km and later to 1,610 km, due to initial delays in
launching contracts because detailed engineering studies were lacking, and the shortfall in
financing from USAID, coupled with cumbersome procurement arrangements. Initial road
standards were slightly modified to achieve more economical road maintenance. A considerable
reduction in length of higher standard roads was matched by a substantial increase in lower
standard roads.
8.    The foundation was laid for the active participation of decentralized administrative units
and beneficiaries in the selection, construction, and maintenance of rural infrastructure. Rural
infrastructure investments are now fully managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Water, and
Forestry (now MAEF, previously MARA) through DNGR and SNAPE. The planning,
implementation, and supervision capacity of these institutions has been considerably
strengthened at the national and regional levels.
9.    Rural road construction and maintenance standards have been adopted.  Financing
mechanisms for infrastructure maintenance have been established and are expected to improve
gradually. By contracting out works and opening training facilities to the private sector, NRIP
contributed substantially to the emergence of SMCs. More than 80 of these contractors benefited
from  the training.  Force-account works, which Government was to withdraw  from
progressively, were discontinued and 100 percent of road construction and maintenance is now
being carried out by SMCs, NGOs, and grassroots organizations. In-kind contribution of local
beneficiary communities is estimated at 30 percent of the cost of small drainage structures,
compared with the appraisal estimate of 15 percent. However, the failure to establish a reliable
equipment rental facility and the absence of a supportive banking environment are serious
constraints to the promotion of local construction industry. Another major constraint is the
absence of a direct financing mechanism for the Road Fund. Maintenance is currently financed
through a line item in the central treasury. Furthermore, since management of the Road Fund
rests with MTTP, resource allocations and the adequate and timely release of funds depend
largely on MTTP's willingness to cooperate with MAEF and DNGR.
10.   SNAPE has perfected its approach to the provision of rural water, particularly in works
supervision and sensitization of beneficiaries. A network of local artisans for repairs and
purchase points for handpump spare parts now exists. A strategy for rural water supply and



4
sanitation development was not defined; the Government instead adopted targets established by
the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) for per capita water consumption and these are
being used for planning of borehole investments.
11.   Local capacity for the development of bottomlands, created under previous projects, is
being contracted out by smallholder rice growers to the tdcherons amenagistes (technicians),
thus helping to reduce environmental degradation associated with slashing and burning of
plateaus for rainfed rice production. The project impact study, financed by IDA, indicates that
80 percent of the farmers exploiting developed bottomlands have reduced the area of rainfed rice
production on the plateaus. Because of increased possibilities for multi-cropping, the average
number of farmers working on bottomlands has more than doubled.
12.   Through the pilot activities, the NRIP helped to create a sense of ownership of rural
infrastructure among the local communities. Road maintenance committees have been set up in
villages to carry out routine maintenance and to watch over rain barriers erected to protect the
roads from premature deterioration by vehicular traffic during or immediately after a rainfall.
Labor-based works have been tested and, when properly organized, have proved to be a viable
method for road rehabilitation (although slow work progress could constitute to be a handicap).
They generate employment for cash and thus help to stimulate the local economy. Three pilot
efforts were carried out to test different approaches to rural road maintenance: (i) contracting out
routine maintenance to SMCs; (ii) participatory management of road maintenance by villagers
under the direction of NGOs; and (iii) road maintenance by tdcherons with a major labor input
from village communities. Each of these approaches could be viable if the Government provides
support to institutionalize them.
13.   By providing substantial TA and training to the Government's administrative units and
SMCs and by constructing, renovating, and equipping the implementing ministry's (MAEF's)
central and regional offices, NRIP has: (a) substantially strengthened Government institutions so
that they can gradually acquire the capacity to assume their permanent responsibilities (planning,
establishment of norms and standards, and ex-post evaluation); and (b) assisted local private
SMCs to become more effective and take over certain tasks, such as studies and technical
supervision, that were hitherto largely being carried out by the Government.
14.   Achievement in improving overall sector management was substantial. Although further
support is still required, particularly in programming feeder road maintenance, fairly good
competence has been created in the overall management of feeder roads, bottomlands, and rural
water investments and maintenance. Management capacity now includes the preparation of
general studies and bidding documents, procurement of goods and services, works supervision
and monitoring, control of works, and accounting and financial management. The DNGR and
SNAPE are now able to manage the sub-sector with a minimum of TA. A progressive phasing
out of TA was carried out, from a high of 20 persons at project inception in 1991 to 12 by 1995,
and 3 by project closing.
15.   Through the establishment of two technical divisions, logistical support services within
DNGR, and the construction, rehabilitation, and equipping of a head office, 8 administratively



5
and financially autonomous regional branch offices or BTGRs (Bureau Technique du Genie
Rural), and 15 SPGRs (Service Prefectoral du Geinie Rural) out of 33 at the prefectoral level, the
project has established the core structures to underpin the execution of DNGR's future rural
investment programs.
16.   To promote the emergence of SMCs, SNAPE and the Mobile Training Unit (Unite
Mobile Ecole--UME) were set up within MAEF to support SMCs and train unskilled contractors.
On-the-job training and coaching were provided by resident and short-term experts to DNGR
administrative staff and to private contractors. Local training was provided mostly, but some
training was also carried out at institutions located in other African countries and elsewhere.
Altogether some 450 agents from 80 SMCs received some form of training; 8 of these SMCs
were specialized in labor-intensive works, and 18 micro-enterprises were trained to carry out
routine road maintenance. At present there are 8 SMCs with mechanized road maintenance
capacity; 4 own their equipment, and the other 4 rely on rentals. Under the NRIP, some 173
contracts valued at US$17.5 million were awarded to SMCs.
17.   A feeder roads rehabilitation and maintenance data base is now in place to serve as a
programming tool and a monitoring and evaluation system to measure the socio-economic
impact of projects. It was established with USAID financing.
18.   The NRIP's institutional-buildinz achievements were substantial:
*  Overall Sector Management: Road maintenance responsibilities between MAEF and MTTP
are now clearly delineated. Inter-ministerial coordination for road sector management has
improved and the expected outcome of ongoing discussions on the management and sharing
arrangements of the Road Fund resources will have a positive impact on rural road
maintenance. The establishment of a Rural Roads Master Plan, which can be regularly
updated, constitutes an essential tool for programming future rural roads investments and
maintenance programs. The adoption of a new road classification system proposed under
NRIP will help to clarify road maintenance responsibilities among MAEF, MTTP, and the
rural communities.
*  Progress toward Decentralization: Roughly 75 percent of DNGR's previously centralized
staff in Conakry are now deployed in field services where they are more responsive to
community needs.
*  Private Sector Development: The NRIP helped to break significantly with the public sector
force-account provision of services; all rehabilitation works were contracted to local private
contractors, many of them small and beneficiaries of training under the project.
*  Canacity Building: The large volume of expatriate TA during the first half of project
implementation (760 person-months at mid-term) was drastically reduced and replaced by
Guinean experts, without undue loss of quality and productivity. The project provided for
comprehensive training of several cadres in DNGR and in other Government units (10,000



6
trainee/weeks), as well as for management teams in other donor-financed projects. DNGR is
now the sole ma?tre d'oeuvre of all donor-financed rural works rehabilitation in Guinea, a
major departure from the earlier practice of each donor-financed project having its own road-
rehabilitation brigade.
* Community Involvement: NGOs and grassroots organizations were involved at the outset
through the Communautes Rurales Dicentralisees, both in the decision-making process for
investment selection and in the construction and maintenance of rural infrastructure.
* Employment Creation: The NRIP has helped to alleviate rural poverty by creating
employment. An estimated US$3.5 million was earned by groups performing work on
community-action projects. The creation of road maintenance committees in villages is
expected to continue to provide additional employment to farmers who would use their slack
time between farm activities to work on road maintenance. The project has fostered the use
of small contractors, trained under previous projects, to provide TA to farmers for
bonomland development.
19.   The project's physical targets were substantially achieved and some were exceeded.
Most were achieved in a timely fashion and generally within appraisal cost estimates. The
objective for the rehabilitation of about 2,600 km of feeder roads was not achieved; a lower
target of 1,610 km was set during implementation, of which 1,594 km were rehabilitated. The
reduction was necessitated by higher than initially estimated costs and donor (USAID) resource
constraints. Category A and B roads were packaged into 12 lots, of which 8 were to be financed
by USAID (US$20.5 million), and two each by Germany's Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW, US$6.3 million) and IDA (US$3.0 million). USAID budget cuts forced a further
reduction in the road length to be rehabilitated with USAID support, from 1,265 km to 915 km.
However, about another 1,000 km of roads were rehabilitated by the construction of over 400
small drainage structures, with in-kind contribution by local communities.
20.  In terms of physical investment, IDA's financing under the feeder roads development
component was limited to pilot activities to test routine road maintenance and emergency spot
improvement approaches. The bulk of physical investment was funded by cofinanciers (see para.
19). The International Labor Organization (ILO)-executed labor-based road rehabilitation works
financed by IDA were shown to be slow. Three other NGO-supported participatory community
approaches to rural infrastructure development (Africare, Association Francaise des Volontaires
du Progres--AFVP, and Charentes-Maritime) produced encouraging results in terms of the
prospects for decentralization and sustainability.
21.   The objective of developing 2,100 ha of bottomlands was exceeded by 785 ha, producing
a 61 percent increase in area cultivated and benefiting about 4,000 farmers. Annual rice cropping
increased, while land clearing for rainfed farming was reduced noticeably wherever bottomlands
were improved. However, all improved bottomlands are not being exploited. Preliminary results
from a USAID development impact study indicate that about 90 percent of the bottomlands
improved under the project are being exploited during the rainy season, but only 50 percent in



7
the dry season. It appears that in some cases, farmers' demand for the development of
bottomlands stems more from their desire to assert ownership over land than a willingness to use
the land. Bottomland yields have doubled but are still low (1.8 tons of rice/ha compared with a
potential of 4 tons/ha) as farmers have not yet adopted the full package of recommended inputs.
22.   The objective for the borehole program was achieved. Some 232 boreholes (including 20
from the pilot phase), compared with the project target of 220, were drilled and equipped with
handpumps benefiting 100,000 inhabitants in 140 villages; 86 percent of villages along the roads
which have been rehabilitated now have potable water compared with 34 percent before the
project. The construction of two small piped water systems in two villages was deferred because
of the program's costs overruns. Their construction is expected to be integrated into a larger
European Union-assisted project.
23.   The construction/renovation component for offices and facilities for DNGR, SNAPE, and
their decentralized services was completed substantially, albeit with some delays vis-a-vis the
contracted time schedule.
Actual project costs are estimated at US$100.5 million, with IDA financing US$43.5 million,
KfW US$9.3 million, USAID US$23.8 million, FAC US$5.0 million, Beneficiaries US$0.6
million, and Government US$18.3 million
24.   Economic Evaluation. Owing to the diversity of the project components, no economic
rate of return (ERR) was estimated at appraisal for the project as a whole. For the two
components for which an ERR was calculated, i.e., the feeder road and bottomland development
components, the returns at project completion are higher than estimated at appraisal (15.7 percent
and 23.2 percent respectively), based on the final investment costs which are in line with
appraisal estimates and the findings of the Feeder Road Impact Study which indicates substantial
increases in the volume of traffic, areas cultivated and crop yields, and reductions in
transportation costs and travel time exceeding appraisal estimates.
D.   Major factors Affecting the Project
Factors not subject to Government control
25.   Restructuring and resource constraints within USAID hampered project execution. The
road component was substantially scaled down. The Fixed Amount Reimbursement method
used by USAID to reimburse the implementing agency on the basis of unit outputs produced (5
kms of roads rehabilitated according to agreed standards or specifications) proved too inflexible
for inexperienced small contractors. This method however had the advantage of strengthening
the institutional capacity and capability of DNGR to plan and oversee the rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural roads throughout the country and it avoided numerous USAID reviews and
approvals of contracts and voucher payments, which would otherwise have been required.



8
Factors subject to Government control
26.  Inadequate Govermnent outlays for road maintenance and delays in releasing the
allocated funds constitute a perennial problem. Over the period 1989-96, only about 50 percent
(GF 4.5 billion or 6 percent of total fuel tax proceeds) of the estimated needs for adequate road
maintenance was budgeted, of which about one third was released. This constitutes a major
impediment for both existing and future investments in the road sub-sector, as it makes road
maintenance programming virtually impossible and jeopardizes development of the private
sector.
27.   Frequent turnover in project management has been an issue. During implementation
project managers were replaced three times in DNGR and twice in SNAPE. This, however, did
not influence project performance unduly as the changes did not affect non-managerial staff and
new competent managers were selected from the ranks of DNGR. Contractors suffered from red
tape in bid evaluations and the long delays in contract signing and payment for work performed.
28.   Contracting out project vehicles maintenance in DNGR and SNAPE had a very positive
impact on vehicle availability and on containment of repair costs.
29.   Although the external training program led to significant improvement in DNGR's
capacity, the cost efficiency of the program could have been increased through (i) a less systemic
choice of European and American training institutions, and (ii) a better matching of skills and
training with positions the trainees were expected to fill.
30.   The relationship between the two project executing agencies, DNGR and SNAPE, was
difficult and slowed overall progress of project implementation. Procurement and disbursement
related correspondence with IDA pertaining to SNAPE had to be channeled through DNGR,
which initially did not diligently forward it in due time. SNAPE's management was
apprehensive about being absorbed as a unit within DNGR, and it did not like the project
administration arrangements which provided for channeling all its procurement and disbursement
through DNGR. Relations between SNAPE and IDA were somewhat distant, though they
improved later. SNAPE had little knowledge of IDA procedures and sometimes failed to
communicate with IDA about changes in implementation, for example, the decision to defer the
two pilot village piped water systems.
31.   Disbursement of the IDA credit was satisfactory, with only SDR 786,249.00 remaining
undisbursed out of the total amount of SDR 31.1 million by project closing. Audit reports were
unqualified and were submitted regularly (sometimes months before the June 30 deadline), an
exception at the time for agricultural projects in Guinea. At Government's request the IDA
credit closing date was extended twice by a total of seventeen months to May 31, 1997, with a
remaining balance being canceled.



9
E.   Project Sustainability
32.   The NRIP's achievements are likely to be sustainable. The moves towards limiting force-
account works, decentralization, and comprehensive and participatory approaches to sub-sector
development, as well as empowerment at the village level, all embodied in the Government's
LPDA and implemented through NRIP, augur well for the sustainability of NRIP's
achievements. Government commitment to sustaining the achievements appears genuine,
although it will take time to reorganize and establish efficient decentralized administration.
33.   The institutional development achievements are likely to be sustainable based on the
Government's commitment to the decentralization process and its policy of empowering people
at the grassroots level. Whether DNGR and SNAPE have developed sufficient capacity to
manage the rural infrastructure sub-sector without TA is too early to judge, but the indications
since the project's mid-term review, when most of the TA was withdrawn, provide ground for
optimism.
34.   The incentives for beneficiaries at the village level to sustain the project achievements
exist, not only as a result of the empowerment of rural communities to participate in decision-
making, but also because of cash incomes that would accrue from the marketing of surplus
agricultural production and rural works' employment in slack periods.
35.   The sustainability of the bottomland development is likely, since beneficiaries have taken
up ownership enthusiastically and realized increased crop surpluses which they can market; and
local TA is available to the beneficiaries as needed through the network of tdcherons
amenagistes (technicians) trained under previous projects. Intensification in the use of fertilizer
and pesticide inputs would further contribute to increasing marketable crop surpluses.
36.   Sustainability of achievements in feeder road maintenance is uncertain. It will depend on
the Government (i) bolstering its commitment through the mobilization of more local resources
and strengthening the allocation and disbursement capacity for the sub-sector through existing or
new organizational mechanisms; (ii) enabling beneficiaries to take responsibility for the road
network through further changes in road classification; and (iii) sustained and adequate road
maintenance financing through the Road Fund.
37.   Continued support from donors would hasten the introduction of necessary changes and
allow the positive achievements of the NRIP to take hold. A follow-up community-based rural
infrastructure project is under preparation (see para. 42).
F.    Assessment of Bank Performance
38.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The NRIP was a timely response to the
country's urgent need for rebuilding the rural road network. It was well-designed to provide a
framework for institutional development of the rural infrastructure sub-sector and to open up and
restore market accessibility to agricultural production areas.



10
39.   The appraisal team was adequately staffed with the needed skills, from agriculturists to
economists, rural water and sanitation specialists, and road engineers. However, until project
mid-term review, project implementation assistance and supervision was almost exclusively
provided by agriculturists. In the few Bank missions that included road engineers, the latter were
critical of the use of higher road standards than necessary and which implied high recurrent costs
for road maintenance, and indicated insufficient cooperation from their agricultural sector
colleagues. This situation resulted in giving mixed signals to the Borrower. It also exacerbated
the already non-collaborative relationship between the MAEF and MTTP, the ministries
responsible for agriculture and public works, respectively. A more equally balanced mid-term
review team revealed that the recurrent costs for road maintenance would be lower than
anticipated by IDA staff because of program changes in the number and types of road to be
rehabilitated and which would be maintained through the national budget.
G.   Borrower's Performance
40.   Overall the Borrower's performance was satisfactory, especially with respect to sectoral
policy, institutional development, and project implementation. The initial large number of TA
experts was difficult for the Borrower to manage in absence of performance indicators and clear
guidelines for transfer of skills to nationals. Compliance with the legal covenants was
satisfactory. Progress reports were comprehensive and timely. Several important project impact
studies were carried out and their recommendations implemented by DNGR. The preparation of
a feeder road master plan under the project has substantially helped to improve and strengthen
donor coordination. Several joint supervisions were conducted. USAID participated in the mid-
term review; fruitful and continuous exchange was established amongst IDA, KfW, CFD and
USAID especially after the 1995 Rural Infrastructure Round Table that led to a common stance
concerning the issue of rural infrastructure maintenance.
H. Assessment of Outcome
41.   The outcome of the project is judged as highly satisfactory. Quantitative targets set at
appraisal were largely met. The main impacts of NRIPI have been institutional strengthening,
promoting local private sector participation in civil works, opening up agricultural production
areas, and improving health by lowering the incidence of water-borne diseases in the areas
covered by the water and sanitation component. The rural road infrastructure component has
contributed to opening up new markets, increasing marketing activities (number of traders in
local markets increased by 163 percent), decreasing transportation costs (about 50 percent), and
boosting agricultural production (113 percent) and marketable surpluses (169 percent).
Bottomland development, by increasing area cultivated by 61 percent, has lessened upland
deforestation. Crop yields have doubled. The rural wells component improved the living
standards of rural inhabitants. The project aided private sector development, not only by training
The NRIP was heralded as a regional success story (see Africa Region Technical Department Working Papers:
Success Stories in West Africa, Guinea: Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales, December 6, 1996.



11
SMCs and enhancing their skills, but also by awarding them contracts for rural road
improvements and bottomland development.
I.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.   The Government has proposed a medium-term rural infrastructure development program
to the donors. It is the understanding of Guineans this should be a logical follow-up operation
that would consolidate the positive results of the projects that are to be completed in the next two
years. A follow-up community-based rural infrastructure project is being considered by IDA that
would support expansion and maintenance of rural transport and water and sanitation
infrastructure, with the full involvement of community organizations. Other social and economic
infrastructure, identified by stakeholders, would be supported, such as, village markets, small-
scale irrigation, and post-harvest processing facilities.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)   A broad country-wide approach to improving rural infrastructure has a major impact on
the agriculture production supply response and service delivery, as revealed by the USAID-
financed Project Impact Study. Experience with this approach in the NRIP demonstrated its
efficacy in providing hope to farmers and restoring buoyancy to a moribund agricultural sector in
all regions of the country.
(b)   Assigning responsibility for project implementation to agencies within the existing
institutional framework can work well, provided they have adequate operational resources and an
improved work environment. These agencies have the advantage of ensuring continuity and
stability.
(c)   Labor-based feeder road development is a most suitable entry point for the development
of a private construction industry, provided multi-year maintenance contracts can be concluded,
which is feasible only with appropriate local finance mobilization and disbursement mechanisms
to ensure steady and timely availability of resources and payments to private contractors.
(d)   Sustainability in privatizing rural works construction and maintenance cannot be ensured
without a multi-year work program and facilities for renting equipment.
(e)   Works carried out by labor-based methods versus conventional equipment-based
methods: (i) are generally of equal quality, but easier to maintain; (ii) are only marginally more
costly, but probably cheaper if foreign exchange costs are taken into account; (iii) create at least
three times as much employment; (iv) stimulate growth in the local economy; and (v) have no
direct negative impacts on the environment; but they are slower to execute.



12
(f)   In the resource-constrained environment of a country undergoing structural adjustment,
establishment of a Road Fund is necessary to ensure a steady and timely availability of resources
for maintaining the road infrastructure. However, channeling the funds through the Ministry of
Finance account is likely to defeat the purpose of establishing such a fund.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2106-GN)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Proiect Obiectives     Substantial        Partial       Nedigjible      N.A.
Macro policies
Sector policies                          /
Financial objectives                                          _
Institutional development                V    _                       ___
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                              _
Gender issues
Other social objectives                        _
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                                      _
Private sector management                      _
Other
B. Sustainability                         _Likel       |      Unlikely            Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                        Highlv           Satisfactory           Deficient
Satisfactor    _
Identification                               I/
Preparation                                  V
Appraisal                                                _
Supervision                            _
D. Borrower Performance                    Highly           Satisfactory          Deficient
satisfactorv
Preparation                                                      V
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                                              I
Operation
E. Assessment of Outcome    Highlv satisfactory    Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory vRig
Unsatisfactory
V



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                           Purpose                               Year of     Status
Approval
Preceding operations
Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI)      Rice development support in Geckedou    1979      Closed June 30, 1986
Livestock Development Project (Cr. 1063-GUI)    Support for private sector development    1980  Cancelled June 30, 1985
and strengthening of public livestock
service
Geck6dou Agricultural Development Project (Cr.   Strengthening the gueckedou prefectoral   1985  Closed June 30, 1992
1635-GUI)                                   directorate of rural development
First Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 1636-GUI)  improve capacity of the Ministry of  1985  Closed June 30, 1992
Agriculture and Animal resources in rural
sector planning, strategy and policy
formulation, and project analysis    _
Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1725-  Support for privatization of sector and  1986  Closed December 31, 1995  1
GUI)                                        strengthening of a reduced public
livestock service                                                          i
Transport Sector Project (Cr. 1815-GN)      Establishment of policy framework to  1987        Closed December 31, 1993
ensure efficiency and effectiveness of
public and private institutions operating
in the sector
Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1915-GN)        Rehabilitation of national roads      1988        Closed December 31, 1996
National Research and Extension Project (Cr.  Improve efficiency of national research    1988  Closed December 31, 1995
1955-GUI)                                   and extension services and develop the
institutional framework for promoting
farmers' organizations to contribute to
increased agricultural production and
farmers' incomes
Subsequent operations
Agricultural Exports Promotion Project (Cr. 2407-  Increase exports of fruits and vegetables   1992  Ongoing
GUI)
National Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 2839-   Improve nationwide agricultural  1996     Ongoing
GUI)                                        productivity and production, incomes of
farmers and food security                                                  i



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle      Date planned                Date actuallatest estimate
Identification                                          August 9, 1987
Preparation                                             1987-1989
Appraisal                                               May/June 1989
Negotiations                                            November 1989
Letter of Development Policy   not applicable           not applicable
Board presentation                                      March 20, 1990
Signing                                                 April 30, 1990
Effectiveness               July 31, 1990               December 28, 1990
Mid-term review             not planned                 January 1993
Project completion          June 30, 1995               May 31, 1997
Credit closing              December 31, 1995           May 31, 1997



16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY1990  FY1991  FY1992  FY1993  FY1994  FY1995  FY1996  FY1997
Appraisal Estimate     3,200   12,000   22,400   30,800   36,000   39,600   40,000
Actual                     0    4,811   12,859   22,352   30,515   37,230   41,482    42,729
Actual as % of           0.0      40.1     57.4      72.6     84.8     94.0    103.7      106.8
estimate
Date of final
disbursement:        September 1997   1                                      _
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
As defined in SAR                    Estimated                     Actual
Rehabilitation of offices                                Local Services: 1,546 mi
DNGR                        2,500 m2                    Central Services: 4,500 m'
SNAPE                       500 m2
Feeder Roads Rehabilitation
Main Program (A/B Roads)    144 km PY1; 869 km PY2;      0 km PY1; 19km PY2; 325
885 km PY3; 207 km PY4      PY3; 663 KM PY4; 388 km
PY5; 161 km PY6; 38 km
PY7
Initiatives Support         30 km PYI; 110 km PY2; 110  0 km PYI; 363 km PY2; 363
km PY3; 103 km PY4; 102     km PY3; 183 km PY4; 175
km PY5                      PY5; 44 km PY6
Pilot Program               50 km PYI; 120 km PY2;30   0 km PYI; I I km PY2;25 km
km PY3                      PY 3; 17 km PY4; 15 km
PY5; 16 KM PY6; 42 km PY7
Feeder Roads Maintenance
Periodic maintenance        0 km PY2; 156 km PY3; 816   20 km PY5; 768 km PY6
km PY4; 1,552 km PY5
Routine maintenance         257 km PY6; 547 PY7
- small contractors         40 km PY2; 186 km PY3; 349  943 km PY3; 94 km PY4; 244
km PY4; 385 km PY5          km PY5
- village communities       19 km PY2; 93 km PY3; 175   250 km PY6
2   Some disbursements are expected to take place during FY98, bring the total up to about US$43.5 million
equivalent.



17
km PY4; 193 km PYS
Routine Mechanized Maint.   44 km PY6; 127 km PY7
Bottomlands                  development of 2,100 ha      2,895 ha
Boreholes with handpipes     220                          232
Small community piped water  2                            0
supply systems with sanitation
components
Technical Assistance                      _
DNGR
- Chief Rural Roads Engineer   5 years as of PYI 50 man   47 mm
month (mm)
- Training Coordinator       3 years as of PY I 30 mm     0 mm
- Rural Civil Engineer       2x3 years as of PYI 80 mm    115 mm
- Financial Expert           4 years as of PY2 0 mm       57 mm
- Chief Mechanic             2x2 years as of PY2 40 mm    7 mm
- Training Engineer          3 years as of PYI 30 mm      43 mm
- Training Mechanic          5 years as of PYI 50 mm      7 mm
SNAPE
- Community Dev. Specialist   3 years as of PYI 30 mm     20 mm
- Drilling Expert            2 years as of PY2 20 mm      26 mm
Short-term Consultancies     67 months                    87 mm
Training
DNGR                         7,351 staff week (sw)        14,184 sw
- Overseas                   632 sw; 75 sw not defined    809 sw
- Territorial Services       713 SW                       772 sw
- Local Services             6,000 sw                     12,603 sw
SNAPE                        2,526 sw                     1,844 sw
-Overseas                    126 sw                       147 sw
- Local                      2,200 sw                     1,546 sw
- Territorial Services       200 sw                       151 sw
Specialized courses for private  2,036 weeks
contractors and local
collectivities



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I Estimated             I Actual
Key Operating Indicators in SAR  I None were established    I
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                 Purpose as defined in     Status      Impact of study
SAR/redefined
1. Rural Water Supply   Development of masterplan  Not carried
and Sanitation Program   to serve as basis for the  out
for Guinee Forestiere    preparation and
implementation of RWSS
investment projects    _
2. Study on willingness  Provide basis for national   Done   Levels of local
to pay for water      policy with regard to                  participation
beneficiary participation in          established
purchase of handpumps
3. Strengthening of    Establishment,           Done
RWSS extension and     implementation and follow-
maintenance program    up of a sensitization
program



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)    Actual/latest estimate (USSM)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign     Total
costs    costs              costs    costs
Institutional Development                                  
DNGR Support                                 2.3       7.5      9.8      6.6      28.2       33.6
SNAPE Support                                0.4       1.2      1.5      1.2       2.6        3.8
Training                                     1.8        7.4     9.1      1.0       4.1        5.1
Investments and Maintenance
Feeder Roads                                10.2      25.0    35.2    12.9        27.4       40.3
Bottomiands                                  0.7        1.6     2.2      2.8         .        2.8
Water Supply                                 0.9       2.9      3.8                3.3        3.3
Maintenance                                                              1.0                  1.0
Studies and Pilot Programs
Studies                                      0.2       2.0      2.3      0.1       0.9        1.0
Pilot Programs                               0.8        3.3     4.1      1.9       7.8        9.6
Total Base Costs                            17.3      50.7    68.0           X               _
Physical Contingencies                       1.4       3.8      5.2     ===
Price Contingencies                          7.0       8.7    15.7            _         X    _
Total Project Costs (including taxes)       25.6      63.2    88.8    31.2                  100.5
Taxes                                        6.3        0.0     6.3        -         -
Total Project Costs (net of taxes)          19.3      63.2    82.5    31.2        69.3      100.5
Table SB: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (USSM)            Actual/latest
_  estimate (USSM)
Source                  Local        Foreign         Total            Total
costs         costs
IDA                       7.3           32.7          40.0             43.5
KfW                        1.8           5.0           6.8              9.3
USAID                     7.5           19.5          27.0             23.8
FAC                       0.1            0.4           0.5              5.0
Beneficiaries              1.0           0.0           1.0              0.6
Government                7.9            5.6          13.5             18.3
Total                    25.6           63.2          88.8            100.5
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal estimate                    Latest estimate
Category A/B Roads                   15.7% (GF 6.4 billion)                In excess of appraisal estimate (see text)
Bottomlands and Category C Roads     23.2%/o (GF 1.7 billion)              In excess of appraisal estimate (see text)



20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Reference  Covenant Class (es)  Status                                        Description                                   I
3.01    Management        Complied with  Borrower declares its commitment to project objectives set forth in schedule 2 to this agreement
aspects                         and, shall carry out the project through DNGR and SNAPE with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate rural, water supply, engineering and sanitation practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, funds, services and other resources required for the project.
3.02    Flow & util of funds Complied with  Except as the association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit shall be
governed by the provisions of schedule 3 to this agreement.
3.03 (a) (i) Accounts/audit  Complied with  (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under section 3.01 of this
agreement, the borrower shall:
Open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the association, and thereafter maintain two project
accounts in the name of DNGR and SNAPE, respectively, in the central bank of the borrower for !
payment of expenditures for the project, not financed out of the proceeds of the credit, the KfW
grant, the FAC grant or the USAID grant; and
3.03 (a) (i) Accounts/audit  Complied with  Shall make into said project accounts initial deposits of 200 million Guinean francs for DNGR and
50 million Guinean francs for SNAPE.
3.03 (b)   Accounts/audit  After delay    In addition to said initial deposits, the borrower shall replenish the project accounts quarterly in
complied with  amounts estimated, on the basis of the budgets referred to in section 3.04 (b) of this agreement, to
be necessary for the timely and efficient execution of Part B of the project in the subsequent
quarter
3.04 (a)   Monitoring &    Complied with  The borrower shall cause DNGR and SNAPE to submit to the association for review and
report                          comments: (a) not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year the project is carried out,
progress reports on project activities during the previous six- month period,
3.04 (b)   Monitoring &    Complied with  Not later than September 30 of each year the project is carried out, budget and work plans for their !
report                          respective operations in the following calendar year, in a form and in such detail as shall be agreed j
upon between the borrower and the association.
3.05    Management        Not complied   The borrower shall (a) cause MTTP and MARA to cooperate in the construction and maintenance 1
aspects           with          of the borrowers feeder road network; and (b) transfer the responsibility for construction and
maintenance of said network progressively from MARA to MTTP.
3.06    Implementation    Complied with  The borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1990, prepare a plan for use of MARA's public works
equipment, in order to determine which equipment shall be transferred to the UME and the
SPTPS.



21
3.07 (a)   Implementation    Not complied   The borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain the following committees, with such
with           membership and terms of reference as shall be acceptable to the Association: (a) a project
supervision committee; and
3.07 (b)   Implementation    Not complied   Not later than June 30, 1990, a coordinating committee at the national level and four multi-
with           disciplinary teams at the regional level, to coordinate implementation of bottomiands
development.
.                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
3.08     Implementation     Complied with  Borrower shall (a) not later than December 31, 1990, submit to the Association for review and
comment a draft manual of administrative procedures for DNGR's and SNAPE's financial and
administrative units; and (b) promptly thereafter finalize said manual and implement its
regulations, taking into account the Association's comments thereupon.
3.09     Financ.            Partially      Borrower shall: (a) not later than December31, 1990, prepare a national policy on contribution to I
performance        complied with  the cost of road rehabilitation, and bottomiand development by beneficiaries, which policy shall
include evaluation criteria and minimum levels of contribution; and (b) promptly thereafter,
collect said contribution from said beneficiaries at levels satisfactory to the Association.
3.10     Financ.            Partially      Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1991, prepare a national policy on contribution to the
perfofmance        complied with  cost of handpumps for boreholes by beneficiaries of such pumps on the basis of a nationwide
study on willingness and ability to pay for pumps; and (b) promptly thereafter, collect said
contribution from said beneficiaries at a level satisfactory to the Association.
4.01 (a)   Accounts/audit    Complied with  Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the project of the departments or agencies of the borrower responsible for carrying out the
project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b) (i)  Accounts/audit  Complied with  Borrower shall (i) have records and accounts referred to in para. 4.01 (a) including those for the
special account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to acceptable to the Association;
4.01 (b) (ii) Accounts/audit   Complied with  Fumish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
4.01 (b) (iii) Accounts/audit  Complied with  Furish to the Association such other infornation concening said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the association shall from time to time reasonably request.



22
4.01 (c) (i)  Accounts/audit    Complied with  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the credit account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, borrower shall (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with para 4.01 (a), records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
4.01 (c) (ii) Accounts/audit    Complied with  Retain, until at least on year after the Association has received the audit for the fiscal year in
(iii)                                       which the last withdrawal from the credit account was made, all records evidencing such
expenditures; enable the association's representatives to examine such records; and
4.01 (c) (iv) Accounts/audit    Complied with  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in para 4.01 (b)
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion of said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation can be relied upon to support related withdrawals.



23
Table 11:
Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
[Statement number and title              I Describe and comment on lack of compliance
The project complied with the major operational manual statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of             Planned                Revised                 Actual
project cycle
Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$
Through             NA          NA         NA          NA         37.0     72,267
appraisal
Appraisal-          NA          NA         NA          NA         57.0    106,000
B oard__        _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ ___              _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _
Supervision         NA         NA          NA          NA        147.8    366,640
Completion           11      23,840                               11.0     23,840
Total                11      23,840        NA          NA        241.8    568,747



24
Table 13:
Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of    Month/   Number    Days in    Specialized   Implemen-   Develop-   Types of
project cycle    year   of persons    field    staff skills  tation status  ment    problems4
represented3               objectives
Identification    12/89    1        9          AE            11
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal
Post-appraisal
Supervision 1   06/90    4                     AE, RE, Agr,  1
wSs
Supervision 2   11/90    3                     AE, RE,       I            1           LC
REcon
Supervision 3   02/91    3                     AE, RE, FA    I            I
Supervision 4   06/91    2          6          AE            1            1
Supervision 5   12/91    3                     AE, RE, FA    1            1
Supervision 6   08/92    1                     AE           2             1
Supervision 7   11/92    3                     SE, Agr..,    2            1           p
HE
Supervision 8   07/93    1                     Agr.         3             1           M
Supervision 9    10/93    3         17         AE, Agr, RE
Supervision 10  03/94    4                     Agr, Econ    2             1
Supervision 11  11/95    1          19         AE, RE       3             1
Completion     3/97     2           20         AE           2             1
Mission
3   Key to specialized staff: AE = Agricultural Economist; Agr. = Agronomist; Econ. = Economist; FA
Financial Analyst; HE = Highway Engineer; RE = Roads Engineer; REcon = Roads Economist; SE = Senior
Economist; WSS = Water Supply/Sanitation Specialist.
4   Key to types of problems: LC = Legal covenants; M = Project management performance; P = Procurement
progress.



25
Appendix A
Republique de Guinie
Projet National d'Infrastructures Rurales
Aide-Memoire de la
Derniere Supervision et de l'Evaluation Retrospective
du Projet
1     Une mission de l'IDA a sejourne en Republique de Guinee du 25 octobre au 16 novembre
1996. La mission avait pour but de (a) parachever la restructuration du Projet Cadre de
Promotion des Exportations Agricoles (PCPEA, credit IDA Cr. 2407-GUI, du 25 octobre au 06
novembre), (b) faire l'etat des dispositions et conditions du demarrage effectif des activites du
Projet National des Services Agricoles (PNSA, Cr. 2839-GUI, du 05 au 08 novembre) et (c)
d'entamer l'evaluation retrospective du Projet National d'Infrastructure Rurale (PNIR, Cr. 2106-
GUI, du 11 au 22 novembre). Les conclusions de la mission concemant le PCPEA et le PNSA
feront l'objet d'aides-memoire separes. Celui du PCPEA sera adresse au ministere de tutelle du
projet, le Ministere du Commerce de l'Industrie et de la Promotion du Secteur Prive.
2     La mission PNIR etait composee de M. Mathurin Gbetibouo (Coordonateur d'Operations,
chef de mission), M. Joseph Toledano (Specialiste des Services Agricoles) et Messieurs
Sourakata Bangoura, consultant Genie Rural et Amadou Diallo, consultant national hydraulique
villageoise. Des visites de terrain ont ete realisees avec les Directeurs Nationaux du Genie Rural,
du SNAPE et du SNPRV et leurs principaux collaborateurs dans les Prefectures de Forecariah,
Boffa et Fria.
3.    La mission remercie Monsieur Jean Paul Sarr, Ministre de l'Agriculture des Eaux et des
For8ts pour leur entiere disponibilite. La mission adresse egalement ses remerciements aux trois
Directions pour l'accueil dont elle a fait l'objet.
4.    La Banque et son Conseil des Administrateurs attachent beaucoup d'importance aux
evaluations retrospectives des operations et programmes qu'elle finance. Elles permettent d'une
part, de determiner dans quelle mesure et avec quel degre d'efficacite les programmes et activit6s
operationnels donnent les resultats escomptes et, d'autre part, de mettre a profit les informations
ainsi obtenues pour definir des orientations politiques et methodes nouvelles en vue de faciliter la
prise de decision et mieux concevoir les operations futures. Ainsi, l'objet de cette mission de
post-evaluation PNIR etait de faire le points des realisations physiques et de la performance des
differents partenaires dans l'execution du projet, en correspondance avec les dispositions du
rapport d'evaluation prospective du projet.
RAPPEL DES OBLIGATIONS DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
5.    Le pays emprunteur participe A l'elaboration du rapport final d'execution (RFE) du projet
de deux manieres: (a) en mettant A disposition de la mission IDA toutes les donnees necessaires a



26
1'evaluation du projet, et (b) en preparant sa propre evaluation du projet. Cette auto-evaluation
sera soumise ensuite A 1'examen de l'IDA. Une fois, les observations apportees, le document de
post-evaluation sera annexe au rapport final d'execution.
6.   Il est recommande que le RFE d'un projet soit publie dans les six mois suivant la fin de
sa date de cl6ture. Pour ce qui est du PNIR il a ete convenu, dans le cadre du contrat (task
contract) passe entre le Directeur de Departement, le Directeur Sectoriel, et le Coordonnateur des
Operations Agricoles, que le RFE serait publie le 31 mars 1997.
ORGANISATION ET CALENDRIER DE L'EVALUATION RETROSPECTIVE
7.    Afin que 1'evaluation soit utile et qu'elle ait une portee pratique, les responsables
operationnels, 1'emprunteur, les cofinanciers et les b6neficiaires de I'assistance de l'IDA doivent
etre associes. Le PNIR a quatre composantes principales: la rehabilitation et 1'entretien de pistes
rurales, l'amenagement de bas-fonds, I'amrnagement de points d'eau et l'appui institutionnel. Le
gouvernement Guineen et l'IDA ont participe au financement de ces quatre composantes, la
KFW et 1'USAID A la composante pistes rurales et la Cooperation Francaise A la composante
appui institutionnel.
8     La premiere etape portera sur l'evaluation retrospective des composantes bas-fonds et
point d'eau. Ces dernieres composantes n'etant fmancees que par l'IDA et le Gouvernement
Guin6en dans le cadre du PNIR, ne requiert pas la participation des autres bailleurs. Par contre la
composante pistes rurales cofinancee par 1'IDA, la KFW et 1'USAID, devra etre evalu6e
conjointement. C'est dans le but de concilier les emplois de temps des uns et des autres et de
donner suffisamment de temps de preparation, (et suite a une conversation telephonique avec M.
Klaar de la KfW ) que nous suggerons entreprendre la mission de la composante piste fin janvier
1997. Une invitation speciale sera lancee aupres des bailleurs de fonds concernes, apres quoi
nous preciserons les dates exactes, et modalites complementaires du deroulement, de la mission
d'evaluation de la composante piste.
DIRECTIVES POUR LA REDACTION DE LA CONTRIBUTION DU
GOUVERNEMENT
9     Les evaluations retrospectives portent g6neralement sur les questions qui sont pos6es en
annexe au present aide-memoire. Ces questions ont fait l'objet de discussions avec l'equipe de
reflexion pour 1'61aboration de la contribution Guineenne au rapport d'achevement du PNIR A
Conakry et sur le terrain, A Fria et Boffa. Par ailleurs, la mission a recommande que 1'equipe
s'enquiert aupres des cadres du MAEF qui ont participe aux contributions du Gouvemement lors
de la preparation des RFEs du Projet Semencier National et du Projet National de Recherche et
Vulgarisation Agricole.
10.   En marge de cette mission de dernire supervision et de l'evaluation retrospective du
PNIR, des discussions ont eu lieu portant sur l'instruction des programmes A moyen terme du
secteur des infrastructures rurales en prolongement du programme d'actions presente par la



27
Direction Nationale du Genie Rural. Cette instruction des composantes financees par la Banque a
et6 decidee dans un souci d'inscrire les programmes a moyen terme en continuite des actions du
PNIR. Dans cet objectif, une action relais sur PPF pourra etre consideree en 1997.
11.   En depit des resultats du PNIR, les besoins du secteur des infrastructures rurales restent tr&s
eleves. Par consequent, l'IDA retient les infrastructures rurales au meme titre que les services
agricoles et la gestion des ressources naturelles pour les programmes prioritaires de sa strategie
d'assistance a la Guin6e dans le secteur agricole. Dans ce secteur des infrastructures rurales et dans
le souci d'une plus grande optimisation des financements, d'un impact significatif sur l'economie
rurale et d'une appropriation des investissements par les utilisateurs et les ben6ficiaires, la Banque
souhaite developper une nouvelle approche et des modes operatoires axes sur une plus grande
sensibilisation et contribution des villageois. Cette approche s'appuierait sur une methodologie
dejA esquissee dans le cadre de la composante actions communautaires du PNIR et s'inspirerait
egalement d'un modele Indonesien d'identification et d'execution de programmes d'infrastructures
rurales associant intimement les communautes villageoises beneficiaires.
12.   Le deplacement de la mission du 14 au 15 Novembre 1996 dans les prefectures de Boffa
et Fria dans les villages de Khorira et Soyore, a permis de prendre conscience a la fois de
l'importance des besoins qui persistent en matiere d'infrastructures rurales et de la volonte des
populations locales de maitriser leur propre developpement.
13.   Au cours de cette visite et au travers des discussions menees avec les villageois, la
mission a constate:
a. 1'etat de delabrement avance des pistes d'acces aux villages de Khorira et Soyor6. Ces
villages peuples de 2500 et 7000 habitants sont inaccessibles pendant au moins 4 mois
de l'annee en raison notamment du manque d'ouvrages de franchissement;
b. l'insuffisance voire le manque d'infrastructures de base (points d'eau, ecoles, centres
de sante, etc...);
c. 1'existence d'un potentiel et d'une production agricole importante au niveau des deux
villages (riz, arachides, cola, produits maraichers,...);
d. l'impossibilite de porter des secours efficaces aux personnes malades notamment aux
femmes en etat de grossesse ainsi que les difficultes de commercialisation des
excedents agricoles liees aux insuffisances evoquees au point 3;
e. les initiatives des villageois dans le cadre de la prise en charge des travaux d'ouverture
et d'entretien des pistes d'acces a leur village;
f. 1'existence de structures traditionnelles beneficiant de la confiance des villageois dans
le developpement d'actions communautaires;
g. I'absence d'entretien des infrastructures existantes ainsi que le faible niveau de
fornation et de sensibilisation des villageois.



28
14.   Sur la base de ce constat, des resultats obtenus, de l'experience accumulde et des
changements intervenus dans l'environnement economique national et international, une
rdflexion doit etre conduite en vue de trouver les points d'application et de mise en oeuvre de
nouveaux programmes d'investissements.
15.   La poursuite des investissements en matiere d'infrastructures rurales et de la valorisation
des ressources agricoles ne peut plus etre valablement abordde dans un cadre centralisd. En effet,
personne ne connait mieux les besoins des populations locales que ces populations elles memes.
16.  I1 ne s'agit pas de faire abstraction des capacites nationales qui ont etd ddveloppdes mais
au contraire de mieux les utiliser en les recentrant sur leur fonction essentielle.
17.   Compte tenu de ce qui precede la mission recommande dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre
des programmes d'entretien et d'investissements:
a. la ddfmition des besoins et l'etablissement des priorites d'investissement par les
bdneficiaires eux-memes;
b. la coordination des interventions des differents services et operateurs ainsi que le
renforcement des synergies institutionnelles dans le cadre d'un suivi plus efficace des
operations de developpement. A cet effet il s'avere necessaire que les agents de la
vulgarisation soient davantage impliquds davantage dans le suivi, la sensibilisation et la
formation des bdndficiaires;
c. I'adaptation des capacites institutionnelles aux besoins des villageois;
d. la prise en compte des ressources et de 1'engouement des populations pour la
programmation des investissements sous financements exterieurs etlou national;
e. le renforcement de l'implication des collectivitds locales et des organisations
traditionnelles dans la gestion et la realisation des travaux;
f. la consolidation des acquis du PNIR1 sur le plan des rdalisations physiques et la poursuite
des reformes institutionnelles necessaires A leur mise en oeuvre;
g. le financement et l'amdlioration des systemes de suivi des infrastructures realisees;
h. l'optimisation de la mobilisation des compdtences nationales et de la main d'oeuvre
locale dans le cadre de la rdalisation des etudes et des travaux;
i. la poursuite des programmes de formation et de promotion des PME faisant appel aux
techniques de travaux a Haute Intensite de main d'oeuvre;
j. le renforcement de l'implication de la socidtd civile et des ONG dans la mise en oeuvre
des operations de ddveloppement.



29
18.   La prise en compte de ces differents elements conduit a proposer la mise en oeuvre
d'actions pilotes de maniere a tester en grandeur reelle la faisabilite de Proj ets Villageois
d'Infrastructures (VIP); l'identification des villages, la formation des cadres, la sensibilisation
des villageois constituant des prealables a ces operations.
19.   Dans un souci de continuite immediate des actions et de consolidation des acquis, un
caractere d'urgence s'attache a la mobilisation d'un PPF des le premier trimestre 1997.
COORDINATION DE L'ASSISTANCE DES BAILLEURS DE FONDS DES PROJETS
D'INFRASTRUCTURESRURALES EN GUINEE
20.   Depuis 1989, la DNGR assure la maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee et/ou la maitrise d'oeuvre
de toutes les operations de r6habilitation et entretien des pistes rurales Guinee. La mise en oeuvre
du PNIR a permis a la DNGR de canaliser toutes les interventions des bailleurs de fonds et
partant, d'assurer une certaine coordination de l'assistance en matiere de rehabilitation des pistes
rurales. Ces acquis pourraient se perdre si les bailleurs de fonds principaux du PNIR ne
s'accordent pas sur les modalites de l'assistance a apporter au programme a moyen terme
propose par la DNGR depuis la Table Ronde des Infrastructures Rurales en Mars 1995. L'IDA
pour sa part estime que toute intervention en matiere de rehabilitation et ouverture nouvelle de
pistes rurales devra etre subordonnee a un engagement de la part du Gouvemement Guineen a
assurer un entretien optimal et durable du reseau existant. A ce titre, les recommandations qui
ont ete faites par la mission de la Banque Mondiale du mois de juin 1996 restent d'actualite en
depit d'une strategie d'entretien operationnelle dont la mise en oeuvre reste principalement
confrontee a la mobilisation de ressources intemes. Ces recommandations portaient sur la
mobilisation effective des ressources au profit du Fond Routier et la mise en oeuvre d'un plan
d'actions concerte avec les departements des finances et des Travaux Publics.
21.   Certains bailleurs de fonds ont deja entame de maniere isolee des evaluations
prospectives de certaines composantes ou sous composantes du programme a moyen terme et
certains auraient meme engage leur financement. Les dangers d'un manque de coordination dans
ce domaine sont r6els.
22.   Alors il est propose d'organiser une reunion de coordination entre les principaux bailleurs
de fonds ayant participe au financement du PNIR et susceptibles de contribuer au financement
des programmes & moyen terme. Cette reunion pourrait se tenir a Paris au cours de la premiere
quinzaine du mois de janvier 1997 dans le double souci de planifier la cloture du programme
pistes et d'harmoniser les questions techniques et methodologiques de cette composante pour le
futur programme.
Points divers
23.   Dans le cadre de la cloture du PNIR au 31 decembre 1996, et suite a l'instruction des
dossiers presentes par la DNGR et le SNAPE, la Banque marque son accord pour la realisation
des dernieres actions detaillees ci-apres.
24.   Audit de l'exercice 1996: mise en ceuvre par le bureau Price/Waterhouse aux conditions
des annees anterieures en ce qui concerne les prestations directes et pour un cout de 129.600 FF.
Par ailleurs, la Banque marque son accord pour l'assistance comptable dans le cadre d'un



30
dispositif reduit associe A cet audit qui cl6turera les comptes du PNIR. Cette assistance
comptable, pour une duree maximale de 5 mois, sera integree dans le contrat d'audit pour un cofit
de 26.000 USD.
25.   Am6nagement hvdro-a2ricoles: (a) dans la sous-prefecture de Benty --cette action a et
decidee A l'occasion de la mission conjointe Banque/DNGR/PCPEA dans le cadre de l'appui aux
productions d'exportations, qui devra desormais etre apporte non pas directement par le PCPEA
mais par les autres projets ou services publics du MAEF, et pour un cofit previsionnel maximum
de 31.000 USD; (b) a Kissidougou --finalisation des amenagements hydro-agricoles de
Kissidougou pour un couit global de 26.000 USD; (c) pour ce qui est du contrat d'etudes relatif A
l'impact des bas-fonds, la Banque marque son accord pour la prolongation de l'intervention et la
prise en charges des depenses additionnelles pour un cofit plafond de 15.500 USD -- le suivi des
op6rations de collecte ayant permis de mettre en evidence la necessite de prolonger les enquetes
jusqu'A la fin de la periode de recolte prevue pour la fin du mois de janvier 1997 dans les r6gions
de Kankan, Faranah, Gu&edou et N'Zerekore.
26.   Etudes complementaires dans le cadre de l'instruction des programmes a moyen terme.
La Banque marque son accord suite A la transmission des termes de references des 6tudes
thematiques s'integrant dans le cadre de la preparation des nouvelles operations et de l'appui A la
mailtrise d'ouvrage (etudes amenagement, pistes et reactualisation du schema directeur, synergie
transport rural/mecanisation et entretien des pistes). Le couit global de ces etudes
complementaires est estime A 46.000 USD dont:
*  appui A la maitrise d'ouvrage pour un cofit de 9.400 USD;
*  reactualisation du Schema Directeur des Pistes Rurales et integration des parametres
d'entretien pour un couit de 21.000 USD;
* etude sur les synergies transport ruraImmcanisation - entretien pour un coat de 15.600
USD.
27.   Realisation d'une piste dans la prefecture de Forecariah et ayant dejA fait l'objet d'une
demande de la DNGR en date du 3 octobre 1996. Le cout de cette intervention qui sera realisde
par l'UME dans le cadre d'un chantier ecole s'eleve A 75.000 USD.
28.   Formation/vovage d'etudes. La banque confirme son accord pour la poursuite du
programme de formation locale ainsi que deux formations complementaires. La premiere porte
sur un voyage d'etudes et d'echanges dans deux pays de la sous region (B6nin et Cote d'Ivoire)
des chefs des BTGRs et de cadres des services centraux au titre de la capitalisation des strategies
et methodes d'entretien. Le couit de ce voyage d'etudes est estime a 24.000 DTS. La seconde
action A trait A la formation de Monsieur Ba Amadou dans les domaines de l'organisation et de la
gestion logistique conformement A l'aide memoire de juillet 1996 et pour un cout de 9.000 USD.



31
29.   Dans le cadre de l'operation pilote avec le Bureau International du Travail, la Banque
marque son accord sur la reponse apportee par la DNGR en matiere de budget pour la cloture de
l'operation. En accord avec les responsables du projet, une dernire revision budgetaire du
contrat d'operateur devra etre enterinee pour prevoir la prise en compte des autorisations de
programmes accordee par la DNGR et la Banque au cours du premier semestre 1996 (49.000), la
preparation d'une evaluation externe (mission d'appui de 3.000 USD) et les charges de
fonctionnement necessaires a l'achevement du projet. Ces charges de fonctionnement sont
estimees A 20.000 USD. L'evaluation exteme est quant A elle prevue sur la ligne budgetaire
etude et evaluation.
30.   En matiere de gestion de la documentation, la banque marque son accord pour la mise en
auvre de missions de suivi au niveau des BTGRs pour un cout global de 1.850 USD.
31.   Dans le cadre des missions de la DNGR pour l'evaluation retrospective du PNIR qui se
deroulera, dans un premier temps, du 14 au 26 novembre 1996, la Banque marque son accord
pour la prise en charge des depenses correspondantes d'un montant previsionnel de 2.800 USD et
*galement la prise en charge du contrat du consultant charge de participer aux phases bas-fonds
et aspects institutionnels de cette evaluation.
32.   Dans le cadre de la reunion technique des bailleurs de fonds pour la coordination du
montage des programmes A moyen terme d'infrastructures rurales, la Banque marque egalement
son accord pour la mise en ceuvre d'un budget indicatif de 13.000 USD. II appartiendra A la
DNGR de presenter un detail de ce budget lorsque les modalites de cette reunion auront ete
definies en accord avec l'IDA et les autres partenaires.
33.   En matiere d'equipements, la Banque marque son accord pour l'acquisition de materiel
informatique complementaire (onduleur et stabilisateurs) A hauteur de 24 Millions GNF et de
mobilier de bureau pour la Division entretien et les Sections Prefectorales pour un cofit maximal
de 22 Millions GNF.
34.   En ce qui conceme l'etude diagnostic sur les aspects reglementaires des marches de
travaux et l'appui au montage des operations A moyen terme, la Banque confirme son accord
pour la mission d'expertise de Monsieur Alpha Bah dans le cadre d'un contrat de prestations de
services avec la DNGR. Une provision de 15.000 USD est prevue pour cette consultation sur la
base d'interventions similaires realisees anterieurement.
35.   La Banque marque egalement son accord de principe pour le financement des travaux
d'adduction d'eau des BTGR de Mamou et Boke. Les marches correspondants devront etre
etablis au format de l'IDA et soumis a une procedure restreinte de consultation.
36.   En accompagnement des dispositions ci-dessus, la Banque marque son accord relatif A la
dernire revision budgetaire de l'accord de credit conformement au tableau joint en annexe I et
qui fait apparaitre egalement une allocation de 71 823 DTS au profit du SNAPE qui devra
presenter une proposition d'utilisation notamment en ce qui concerne le mat6riel et les



32
equipements du siege ainsi que la formation qui a deja fait l'objet d'un accord de principe de
l'IDA.
37.   La Banque rappelle qu'il est necessaire que le SNAPE etablisse un rapport sur la
fonctionnalite des forages qui ont 6te finances dans le cadre du PNIR et ceci avant la date du 31
decembre 1996.
38.   Les conclusions et recommandations du present aide-memoire seront confirmees apres
consultations aupres du Directeur Sectoriel --Agriculture, et du Directeur de Departement --
Guinee, Sierra Leone et Liberia, au siege de l'IDA a Washington. Apres quoi une
correspondance sera envoyee au Gouvernement a travers le MAEF.



33
Calendrier de la Mission d'Evaluation Retrospective du PNIR
14-28 Novembre 1996 Mission de terrain dans les prefectures de Boffa/Fria,
Faranah, Dalaba, Mamou pour la composante Bas-Fonds et
renforcement institutionnel
29-13 Decembre 1996 Redaction du Rapport d'ach&vement de la premiere phase
de la mission d'evaluation
Seconde Quinzaine de Transmission  par le  SNAPE  du  Rapport sur  l1
Decembre            fonctionnalit6 des forages realises dans le cadre du PNIR
Mi-Janvier 1997     Reunion de Coordination des Bailleurs de Fonds a Paris
pour le Financement du PNIR
01-21 F6vrier 1997    Debut de la seconde phase de l'evaluation retrospective du
PNIR pour les composantes pistes et hydraulique
Fin Fevrier 1997    Finalisation  et transmission  du  rapport d'evaluation
retrospective du PNIR



34
APPENDIX B
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
Travail - Justice -Solidarite
Ministere de l'agriculture des eaux et des forets
Direction nationale du genie rural
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET NATIONAL
D'INFRASTRUCTURES RURALES
1.    Preamble
Le Pr6sent resume du rapport d'achevement du Projet National d'infrastructure Rurale constitue
Je document terminal etabli par la Direction Nationale du Genie Rural, d'une procedure
d'achevement quia ete conduite en Plusieurs etapes. Sur le plan thematique des evaluations
ont et6 conduites entre janvier 1997 et avril 1997 en ce qui concerne les composantes bas fonds,
appui institutionnel, hydraulique villageoise et pistes (construction, entretien et 6limination de
points critiques). A partir de ces differents documents 6tablis par des consultants, la Banque a
6labor6 un rapport final d'achevement de ce projet.
2.    Generalites: et obiectifs du projet
A la fin des ann6es 1980. la Plus grande partie de l'infrastructure de transport du pays etait en
tres mauvais etat et les institutions de planification, d'exploitation et d'entretien n6cessitaient
des reformes. Par6s cieux operations ant6rieures destin6es A aider le gouvernement a retablie
des service de transport essentiel, I'association international de developpement (IDA) a
approuve l'octroi d'un soutien au Projet National d&infrastructure Rurale (PNIR) en vue de
mettre en place le cadre institutionnel n6cessaire au d6veloppement du secteur rural, I'accent
6tant mis sur la remise en etat du reseau de routes de desserte. Le PNIR avait pour objectifs
d'aider le gouvernement e executer des politiques dans le sous secteur de l'infrastructure rurale,
en renfor,ant la capacite des institutions et en mettant en oeuvre un programme
d'investissement sp6cifique.



35
Le Projet comprenait trois composantes:
i. renforcement de la capacite de deux institutions du ministre de l'Agriculture de
l'Elevage et des Forets (MAEF), a savoir la Direction nationale du genie rural (DNGR)
et le service national d'amenagement des points d'eau (SNAPE), en construisant et en
renovant leurs bureaux et installations, en fournissant du materiel et du mobilier, et en
assurant une assistance technique (AT) et une formation au niveau central et dans leurs
services decentralises, ainsi qu'au sein des autres ministeres techniques concernes, en
particulier le ministere des Transports et des Travaux publics (MTTP), d'entreprises
privees, d'organisations non gouvemementales (ONG) et d'organisations
communautaires;
ii. un programme d'investissement et d'entretien destine a remettre en etat et a entretenir
2 600 km de routes de dessertes; l'amenagement de 2 100 ha de bas-fonds; le forage de
220 points d'eau equipe de pompes a main dans quelque 140 villages et la mise en
place 220 points d'eau equipes de pompes e main dans quelque 140 villages et la mise
en place de deux petits reseaux communautaires d'approvisionnement en eau sous
conduite, comportant des elements d'assainissement;
iii. des etudes et des activites pilotes concemant la preparation d'un plan directeur relatif
aux routes de desserte en vue de futurs investissements - la mise au point de methodes
de construction a forte intensite de main-d'oeuvre, faisant appel a la participation
d'organisations communautaires. d'entreprises et d'ONG a l'entretien et a la remise en
etat des routes de desserte: la promotion des petites et moyennes entreprises (PME);
L'execution d'un programme pilote d'am6nagement des bas-fonds, et la d6finition
d'une strategie nationale relative au developpement de l'approvisionnement en eau des
zones rurales.
Le PNIR a constitue la PNIR a constitue la premiere tentative engagee pour executer une
strategie nationale concemant l'infrastructure rurale et encourage une approche globale du
developpement de l'infrastructure rurale.
I1 concordait avec la politique de developpement du gouvernement enoncee dans la Lettre de
1991 sur la politique de developpement agricole: approche globale du developpement sous
sectoriel, decentralisation, promotion du secteur du batiment et renforcement des capacites
administratives pour reduire les besoins en competences exterieures. Le secteur rural joue un
role capital dans l1'conomie guineenne puisqu'il fait vivre plus de 75 % de la population et
assure environ 30 % du produit national brut. Malgre le climat favorable et la diversite agro
ecologique qui offrent de serieuses possibilites de croissance au secteur rural, les resultats
obtenus ont ete decevants, d'ou les faibles revenus des ruraux (environ 150 dollars par habitant et
par an en moyenne) et un exode rural alarmant. L'absence d'infrastructure rurale et en particulier



36
le mauvais etat des routes rurales entravent considerablement la developpement economique de
la Guinee.
Les objectifs du projet etaient clairs et conformes A la strat6gie du secteur agricole, mais tres
ambitieux compte tenu de l'environnement institutionnel de la faiblesse initiale des ressources
humaines, de la lourdeur des procedures administratives et de modalites de passation des
march6s, de la n6cessit6 de sous-traiter les travaux, ce qui a oblig6 A susciter la cr6ation d'un
reseau de petites entreprises, et egalement en raison des difficultes liees A la supervision au suivi
de travaux dispers6s entre 16 des 33 prefectures situ6es dans le quatre r6gions naturelles du pays.
Du point de vue de la realisation des objectifs, les principaux risques 6taient lids essentiellement
aux aspects institutionnels et A la p6nurie de personnel qualifi6. Ces deux risques ont et6
att6nu6s par la conception du projet qui pr6voyait un soutien institutionnel, une formation et une
AT significatives. La composante hydraulique villageoise comportait un risque en ce sens que
les villageois n'6taient pas n6cessairement dispos6s a payer l'importante contribution fmanciere
requise pour l'achat de pompes a main (FG 50.000) ou n'en n'avaient pas forc6ment les moyens,
ce qui compromettait la mise en place d'un systeme d'entretien viable. Ce risque devait etre
attenue grace A une sensibilisation intensive des villageois. Le demier risque concemait la
disponibilit6 en temps opportun de fonds de contrepartie.
3.    Realisation des objectifs
Les objectifs du PNIR Ont 6t6 en grande partie atteints, Dans un contexte d'austerite budg6taire,
il faut f6liciter le gouvernement d'avoir fourni, comme il s'y 6tait engage, un financement de
contrepartie ad6quat et dans les delais pr6vus, bien qu'il l'ait fait avec des fonds fournis au titre
du programme PL 480 de l'USAID. L'execution du Projet dans le cadre institutionnel de la
DNGR et du SNAPE, deux organismes decentralises dans le contexte du programme de r6forme
administrative du gouvemement, a ouvert la voie A une gestion d6centralise du secteur rural. Le
projet a ete execute pour une large part comme envisage aux stades de l'evaluation, en dehors du
lineaire des routes a remettre en 6tat qui a 6t6 ramenee a 1 610 km du fait des retards initiaux
avec lesquels les appels d'offres ont ete lances faute d'etudes detaill6es et d'un financement reduit
de 1'USAID, A quoi s'ajoute la lourdeur des modalites de passation des march6s.
La voie a et6 ouverte 6 la participation active des services administratifs decentralise et des
ben6ficiaires A la selection, A la construction et A l'entretien d'infrastructure . Les investissements
destines 6 celles-ci sont maintenant ger6s par le MAEF a travers la DNGR et le SNAPE. La
capacite de planification, d'ex6cution et de supervision de ces institutions a 6t6 nettement
renforcee aux niveaux national et r6gional.
Des normes de construction et d'entretien' des routes rurales ont ete adoptees. Des mecanismes
de financement de l'entretien de l'infrastructure ont 6t6 mis en place et ils devraient s'ameliorer
progressivement.



37
En Sous-traitant les travaux et en assurant des services de formation au secteur prive, le PNIR a
largement contribue A l'emergence de PME. Plus de 80 d'entre elles ont beneficie d'une
formation. Les travaux en regie, auxquels le gouvemement devait renoncer progressivement, ont
cesse et les travaux de construction et d'entretien des routes sont maintenant assures A 100 % par
des PME, des ONG et des organisations communautaires. La contribution en nature des
communautes beneficiaires locales est estimee A 30 % du couit des petits ouvrages de drainage,
contre 15 % selon l'estimation faite aux stades d'evaluation. Toutefois, le fait de ne pas avoir mis
en place un systeme fiable de location de materiel et l'absence d'un environnement bancaire
favorable constituent de serieuses contraintes qui n!encouragent guere le secteur prive national.
Une autre contrainte majeure est l'absence de mecanismes de financement directs pour le fonds
routier. L'entretien est actuellement finance par un poste du budget d'etat. En autre la gestion du
fonds routier incombant au MTTP, la reparation des ressources et le deblocage en temps voulu de
fonds adequats dependent largement de la bonne volonte dont fait preuve le MTTP pour coop&er
avec le MAEF et la DNGR.
Le SNAPE a perfectionne ses methode d'approvisionnement en eau des zones . rurales, et
particulierement de supervision des travaux et de sensibilisations des beneficiaires. I1 existe
maintenant un reseau d'artisans locaux charges de reparation ainsi que des points d'achat pour
les pieces detachees des pompes A main. Le gouvernement a adapte les objectifs fixes par le
Fonds des Nations Unies pour l'enfance (UNICEF) pour la consommation individuelle d'eau. ces
objectifs etant utilises pour la planification des investissements relatifs aux points d'eau.
L'etude sur l'impact du projet, financee par l'IDA, indique que 80% des agriculteurs exploitant
des bas-fonds amenages ont reduit la superficie des terres consacrees A la production de riz
pluvial sur les coteaux. Du fait des possibilites accrues de recolte multiples, le nombre moyen
d'agriculteurs travaillant dans les bas-fonds est passe de 4 A 10.
A travers des actions pilotes, le PNIR a aide A donner aux communautes locales le sentiment
d'etre responsabilisees. Des comites d'entretien ont ete crees dans les villages pour assurer les
operations d'entretien courant et surveiller les dispositifs mis en place en saison des pluies pour
proteger les routes d'une deterioration prematuree causee par le trafic durant ou immediatement
apres une pluie. Des methodes d'intervention a forte intensite ont e  testes et s'averent viables
pour ce type de travaux en depit de leur lenteur qui constitue un handicap. Ces operations
generent des emplois remuneres et aident ainsi A stimuler l'conomie locale.
Trois initiatives ont et prises pour mettre A l'essai differentes methodes d'entretien des routes
rurales: (i) sous-traitance de l'entretien courant A des PME; (ii) Par les villageois sous la direction
d'ONG; et (ii) entretien confie A des tacherons avec une forte participation des communautes
villageoises. Ces approches devaient etre viabiliser a travers un soutien et une
institutionnalisation.
En foumissant une AT et une formation consequente aux Services administratifs et aux PME et
en construisant, renovant et equipant les bureaux centraux et regionaux du ministere d'execution



38
(MAEF), le PNIR a considerablement: (a) renforce les institutions de telle sorte qu'elles soient
progressivement capables d'assumer leurs responsabilites permanentes (planification,
etablissement de normes et evaluation ex post) ; et (b) aide les PME locales privees a devenir
plus efficaces et a se charger de certaines tdches, telles que la realisation d'etudes et la
supervision technique qui etaient en grande partie assurees par le gouvemement.
La gestion globale du secteur a et nettement amelioree. En depit de la necessite de poursuite de
ce soutien, en particulier pour la programmation de l'entretien des routes de desserte, le niveau
de competence du personnel est maintenant assez satisfaisant en ce qui concerne la gestion
globale des routes de desserte et des bas-fonds et egalement pour les investissements consacres a
l'approvisionnement en eau des zones rurales et a 1'entretien des ouvrages. Les capacites
actuelles permettent maintenant de pr6parer des etudes generales et des documents d'appels
d'offres, de passer de marches de biens et services, de superviser, suivre et controler les travaux,
et d'assurer la compatibilite et la gestion financiere.
En cr6ant deux divisions techniques et des services d'appui logistique au sein de la DNGR, et en
construisant, renovant et equipant un bureau principal, huit offices regionaux autonomes sur le
plan administratifet financier ou BTGR, (Bureau technique du genie rural) et 15 SPGR (Service
prefectoral du genie rural) sur les 33 existant au niveau prefectoral, la projet a permis de mettre
en place les structures de base sur lesquelles reposera 1'execution des futurs programmes
d'investissement ruraux de la DNGR.
Une base de donnees sur la rehabilitation et l'entretient des routes de desserte est maintenant en
place, et elle sert d'instrument de programmation et de systeme de suivi et d'evaluation
retrospective pour mesurer l'impact socio-economique des projets. Cette base de donnee a ete
creee avec un financement de l'USAID.
Le PNIR a donne des r6sultats tres significatifs du point de vue du renforcement institutionnel:
* Gestion globale du secteur: Les responsabilites en ce qui concerne l'entretien des
routes sont maintenant clairement partagees entre le MAEF et le MTTP. La
coordination interministerielle relative a la gestion du secteur routier s'est amelioree et
les resultats attendus des discussions en cours sur les modalites de gestion et de
partage des ressources du fonds routier auront un effet positif sur l'entretien des routes
rurales. L'etablissement d'un plan directeur des routes rurales pouvant etre
rdguli6rement mis a jour constituera, a l'avenir, un instrument essentiel pour la
programmation des investissements consacres aux routes rurales et pour les
programmes d'entretien. L'adoption d'un nouveau systeme de classification des routes,
propose dans le cadre du PNIR, aidera a clarifier le partage des responsabilitds
relatives a l'entretien des routes entre le MAEF, le MTTP et les communautes rurales.



39
* Progres dans le. sens de la decentralisation . Environ 75 % des services de la DNGR,
auparavant centralises A Conakry, sont maintenant deployes sur le terrain oi ils
repondent mieux aux besoins des communautes.
* Developpement du secteur Prive - Le PNIR a aide A mettre fin dans une large mesure A
la prestation de services en regie par le secteur public. Tous les travaux de
rehabilitation ont ete confies a des entreprises privees locales, qui sont souvent de
petite taille et beneficient d'une formation dans le cadre du projet,
* Renforcement des capacites: L'assistance technique tres importante assuree par des
expatri6s durant la premiere moitie de l'execution du projet (760 personne's-mois A
mi-parcours) a ete fortement reduite, et les expatries ont ete remplac6s par des experts
Guineens, sans que l'on ait A deplorer une baisse de qualite et un perte de productivite.
Le projet a assure une formation poussee A plusieurs cadres de la DNGR et d'autres
services officiels (10.000 stagiaires par semaines), ainsi qu'a des equipes de direction
dans le cadre de projets finances par d'autres bailleurs de fonds. La DNGR est
maintenant seul maltre d'oeuvre de tous les travaux de rehabilitation rurale finances
par des bailleurs de fonds en Guinee, ce qui constitue un changement majeur car,
auparavant, chaque projet finance par un bailleur de fonds disposait de sa propre
brigade de rehabilitation routiere.
* Participation communautaire: Les ONG et organisations communautaires ont
participe des le debut du projet, par le biais des communautes rurales decentralisees,
aussi bien au processus de decision pour le choix des investissements qu'A la
construction et a l'entretien de l'infrastructure rurale.
Creation d'emplois: Le PNIR a aide A attenuer la pauvrete rural, en creant des emplois.
On estime A 3,5 millions de dollars les gains des groupes ayant effectue des travaux
dans le cadre de Projets d'action communautaire. La creation de comit6s d'entretien
routier dans les villages devrait continuer A fournir des emplois supplementaires aux
agriculteurs desireux d'utiliser leur temps libre entre des activites agricoles pour
participer A des travaux d'entretien, des routes. Le projet a egalement encourage le
recours aux services de petits entrepreneurs formes dans le cadre de projets anterieurs.
Les obiectifs materiels du projet ont ete largement atteints. La plupart des objectifs ont et6
realises en temps voulu et generalement dans les limites des estimations de cofit faites aux stades
de l1'valuation. L'objectif consistant a remettre en etat environ 2 600 km de routes de desserte
n'a pas ete atteint et, au cours de l'execution du projet, on a ramene ce chiffre A 1 610 km, et le
chiffre effectif a ete de 1 530 km. Cette revision en base A et due au fait que les couits ont
depasse les estimations initiales et A des contraintes au niveau des ressources des bailleurs de
fonds (USAID). Toutefois, environ 1 000 km supplementaires de routes ont ete rehabilitees
grace A la construction de plus de 400 petits ouvrages de drainage et A une contribution en nature
des communautes locales.



40
Le financement de l'IDA dans le cadre de la composante a [developpement des routes de
desserte) A ete limite A des activites pilotes pour mettre A 1'essai des m6thodes d'amnlioration, de
1'entretien des routes et des travaux urgents de point A temps. Les travaux de rehabilitation
routiere A forte intensite de main-d'oeuvre et soutenus par le BIT se sont averes lents. Trois
autres approches communautaires participatives du developpement de l'infrastructure rurale
soutenues par d'autres ONG (Africare, AFVP et Charente-Maritirne) ont donne des resultats tres
encourageants du point de vue des perspectives de decentralisation et de viabilite.
L'objectif qui etait d'amenager 2 100 ha de bas-fonds a ete depasse de 785 ha, ce qui a permis
d'augmenter de 61% la superficie des terres cultivees et beneficie A environ 4.000 agriculteurs.
Les recoltes annuelles de riz ont augmente, tandis que le defrichage des terres pour pratiquer des
cultures pluviales a et sensiblement reduit. Cependant, tous les bas-fonds ameliores ne sont pas
en exploitation. Les resultats preliminaires d'une etude d'impact indiquent qu'environ 90 % des
bas-fonds ameliores dans le cadre du projet sont exploites en saison des pluies, et 50 %
seulement en saison seche.
L'objectif du programme de Points d'eau a ete atteint. Environ 232 forages (dont 20 de la phase
pilote), au lieu des 220 prevus par le projet, ont ete effectues et equipes de pompes A main, ce qui
a benefice a environ 100.000 habitants de 140 villages; 85 % des ruraux ont maintenant l'eau
potable, contre 34 % avant le projet. La construction de deux petits reseaux d'eau sous conduite
dans deux villages a ete reportee du fait des depassement de cofit du programme. Les travaux
sont cens6s etre integres A un projet de plus grande envergure beneficiant d'une aide de l'Union
europeenne.
4.    Principaux facteurs d'incidence sur le proiet
La faible capacite de mobilisation de ressources internes pour l'entretien des routes et les retards
avec lesquels les fonds alloues sont debloques constituent un probleme chronique. Durant la
periode 1989-96, environ 50% seulement (soit 4,5 milliards de francs guineens ou 6% du produit
total de la taxe sur les carburants) des montants estimatifs correspondant A un entretien adequat
des routes ont ete prevus au budget, et environ un tiers seulement a et debloque. C'est Ia un
obstacle majeur pour les investissements aussi bien actuels que futurs dans le sous-secteur
routier, dans la mesure oui cela rend pratiquement impossible une programmation des activites
d'entretien des routes et compromet le developpement du secteur prive.
Le d6caissement du credit de l'IDA s'est effectue de facon satisfaisante, seulement 45000 DTS
environ restant A decaisser sur un montant total de 31,1 millions de DTS. Les rapports d'audit ne
contenaient pas de reserves et ils ont ete soumis regulierement avant la date limite du 30 juin. La
date de cl6ture du credit de l'IDA a e  repoussee de six mois et fixee ainsi au 31 mai 1997 avec
un dernier delai de grace fixe en septembre 1997.



41
5.    Durabilite
Les resultats positifs du PNIR ont des chances d'etre durables. L'evolution vers la limitation des
travaux en regie, la decentralisation et des approches globales et participatives du developpement
du sous secteur, ainsi que la responsabilisation des villageois eux-memes sont autant de principes
enonces dans la Lettre du gouvemement sur la politique de developpement agricole et appliques
par le biais du PNIR, ce qui augure bien de la durabilite des resultats positifs de ces projets. Le
gouvemement parait veritablement desireux d'assurer la perennite des resultats obtenus, mais il
faudra du temps pour reorganiser et mettre en place une administration decentralisee efficace.
Les resultats positifs obtenus cru point de vue du developpement institutionnel paraissent
confortes compte tenu du processus de decentralisation engage et de la mise en couvre d'une
politique d'appropriation par les beneficiaires.
Les beneficiaires au niveau des villages sont incites A assurer la viabilite des resultats du projet
non seulement parce qu'on fait participer les communautes rurales A la prise des decision mais
aussi en raison des revenus monetaires assuree par la commercialisation de la production agricole
excedentaire et des emplois offerts au ruraux durant les periodes oui ils ont du temps libre.
II est Probable que l'amenagement des bas-fonds sera encore reproduit en particulier du fait de
l'incidence positive de ces programmes sur la securite alimentaire au niveau des villages.
La durabilite des resultats obtenus au point de vue du d6veloppement des routes de desserte reste
cependant aleatoire. Elle dependra essentiellement de la mise en oeuvre d'une politique
d'entretien s'appuyant sur les principes de securisation des ressources et de revision des
mecanismes organisationnels, des modes operatoires et de l'appropriation des reseaux par les
usagers et les beneficiaires.
Un soutien continu des bailleurs de fonds accelererait la mise en oeuvre des changements qui
s'imposent et rendrait durables les effets positifs du PNIR. Cela a d'avantage de chances d'etre
le cas si l'on entreprend tres rapidement un projet relais afin de poursuivre et developper les
activites engagees dans le cadre de ce proj et.
6.    Evaluation des resultats
Les resultats du Projet sont tres satisfaisants. Les objectifs quantitatifs fixes aux stades de
l'evaluation ont et dans l'ensemble atteints. Les principaux effets du PNIR ont ete le
renforcement institutionnel, la promotion de la participation du secteur prive local aux travaux de
genie civil, le desenclavement des zones de production agricole et l'amelioration de la sant6.
L'61lment infrastructure routiere rurale a contribu6 A l'ouverture de nouveaux marches, A un
accroissement des activites de, A une diminution des couts de transport (environ 50%) et A une



42
augmentation de la production agricole (113%) et des excedents commercialisables (169 %). En
augmentant de 61 % la superficie de terres a cultiver, l'amenagement des bas-fonds a reduit le
deboisement des hautes terres. Les rendements des cultures ont double. Par ailleurs, le projet a
contribue au developpement du secteur prive non seulement en formant le personnel des PME et
en ameliorant ses competences, mais aussi en attribuant des marches, aux PME pour
l'amelioration des routes rurales et l'amenagement des bas-fonds.
7.    Operations futures
En fonction des resultats du PNIR et des enjeux qui s'attachent A ce secteur en particulier sur la
question de l'entretien, il est propos6 la realisation d'un programme quinquennal de
consolidation et de developpement de l'infrastructure rurale. Ce second plan d'investissements
devrait etre une suite logique qui consoliderait les resultats positifs des projets devrait etre
acheves au cours des prochaines annees. Dans ce cadre, un projet relais d'infrastructure rurale
au niveau communautaire est en cours dtinstruction. il aurait pour objectif in fine de soutenir
1'expansion et l'entretien de l'infrastructure rurale de transport, d'approvisionnement en eau,
avec la participation active d'organisations communautaires. Un appui est egalement sollicite
pour la realisation d'autres infrastructures sociales et economiques identifiees par les
collectivites decentralisees ; par exemple, aux marches villageois, A la petite irrigation et aux
installations de transformation des produits agricoles apres recolte.
G Rohan
C:\WINWORD\DOCWRIPICR2.DOC
July 3, 1997 16,11



MAP SECTION






IBRD 21840R
4         ~~S  E N  E  G  A  L           1514B
-S  i   r  9   raKedouga   J  M A L I  ->             NATIONAL RURAL
G U I N E A                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INFRASTRUCTURE
T~~ 8~o         PROJECT
PROJ ECT INVESTMENT
PROGRAM2
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
Bl Ii S  
0>  /                  oo~~~~~~~~~0  z10 ,io 31008
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0s
-       ='vec Roac'    =  s~~ > =   :   ;- N }   /:   *   ~ , M  ,  ~  p0
THE GAMBIA_r? Amnsrtv eonBndrej ,,i '   -
~~~~~~~~  /  .     500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n2                                                               0
'StERRA '\                   s .                 200                               'S                                  z f *e,T
.2ON C .   CorE D iVOIBE  J  r r  C
J LIBERIA 5             .          KtLOM4ETERS 0    40       00   120   160   ;   \;
g . .__ __=-v=   MILES 0  20    40    60    80   100                                                       0
l _  ! --  12'               LF              0         B EI         3?
DECEMBER 1989






40         00      120
SENEGAL                                                                            0        KLMTR
MALI ~~~~~~~~~    2   40  60  00
GUINEA                    Koun                                                                  MALIIoLES4                                                  L
BISSAU \ o a 
12'                                                               ai1'
ATLANTIC  DGaoual                                   oub
@            ~~~~~Bokie          TCelime'le 7  0abl                                                           Koururo 
</        \                  I   ADa~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~laba r               >       >D<                             _adanat 
PROJEC  IMPE BoffaT                                    0-amou S  NT A    RURAL                        0ank ssog
D 9 | J > _9 R \ F~~~~~~~~aranah ))/X\}
-le,4_ANJvT1           \         )DbrCeka                                                          OA(i \                                                                1\0E /|\|s/10-
OCEAIV                                 Ki          N         Rndia     R                    \                       J 
CONAKRY    Sth                      }\/ _                                                                          <        \-
A ! w m ~Forecaniah X5urg
-  .  -          Q             ,,e               GU~~~~~           ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~INEA  _/)  J)   K6rouae    _                              1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTiNG STRUCTURE   ,            P                NATIONAL RURAL                           /       oAissiduou  /                     
eADIQU"ALRTEgS O TeNGNEN                         INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                    ,        \      OL       
N'iALRURAL ENGINEERINGPRJ)
t   IRECTORATE (DNGR) \
(3  REt3RURAI ENGINEERINGO REAUS (ETGR;)                PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS
O   STOR BRANCHES                                     (E)     ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS -        Gueckedo                                0 B
PILOT PR   WORKS CONPANIES (SPtPN)                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                             0              o Macenta
O MOBI1LE SCHOOLS (UMEI
O    AiNBlLE TRAINING tENMeR                             PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
* MAjN TRAINING CENTER  C A
OTHER TRAINING OENTERS                                   ADMINISTRATIVE REGION BOUNDARIES
*    HEADQUARTERS OF THE NATIONAL                             INTERNAI         B                                                                                        8_-
WATER SUPPLY AGENCY (SNAPE1                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
N SNAPES REGIONAL OFFIOE                                                                                                                        r   Lola
O SNAPES $US REGIONAL OFFICE                                       SIERRA
n  -  -jC   LEONE   t/                                    g         C           \  D'IVOIRE w
Os~ C    4s~aflo,,,vfl4.pdT ~I                                                                                     lo,                                            1
Pt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ APr~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~;









IMAGING
Report No.:         18837
Type:     ICR



