Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
5ZZ   g  G 61- 67-UI
Report No. 8012-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 27, 1989
Agricultural Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a residcted dribution and may be used by recipient only In the performe of
their offlidil dudtes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wi



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Guinean Franc (GF)
US$1.0 - GF 590 1/
SDR 1.0 - US$1.28 21
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Hecric System
ABBkEVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFVP           -     Association Frangaise des Volontaires du Progrbs
BSD            -     Bureau de Strat6gie et de Developpement (MARA)
BTGR           -     Bureau Technique du Genie Rural
CAF            -     Cellule Administrative et Financiere (DNGR and SNAPE)
CEP.. MkAG     -     Centre d'Etudes et de Perfectionnement en Machinisme
Agricole
DNFPR          -     Direction Nationale de la Formation et de la Promotion
Rurale (MARA)
DNGR           -     Direction Nationale du Genie Rural (MARA)
FAC            -     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
KfW            -.    Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau  (Federal Republic of
Germany)
MARA           -     Ministare de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales
MEF            -     !linistbre de l'Economie et des Finances
MPCI           -     Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation Internationale
MTTP           -     Ministere des Transports et des Travaux Publics
NGO            -     Non-Governmental Organization
PNIR           -     Projet National d'Infrastructure Rurale
PPF            -     Project Preparation Facility
PNRVA          -     Projet National de Recherche et Vulgarisation Agricoles
RWS            -     Rural Water Supply
RWSS           -     Rural Water Suppl- and Sanitation
SAL            -     Structural Adjustaent Lending
SMC                  Small and Medium Scale Contractor
SNAPE          -     Service National d'Amenagement des Points d'Eau
SPTP           -     Societe Pilote de Travaux Publics
UME            -     Unite Mobile Ecole
USAID          -     United States Agency for International Development
WTP            -     Willingness To Pay
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Represents the exchange rate at appraisal in June 1989. The exchange
rate is established through an auction system and was GF 615 to the U.S.
dollar at negotiations in November 1989.
2/ As of November 1989.



FOR 0MCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pge-
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE         ...........................  i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................... ii
KEY FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTOR ....... ............................ v
I.  INTRODUCTION .. ........................................  1
II. THE RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUB-SECTOR ............................  2
A.  Economic and Sector Setting .........     .............. ........  2
B.  Government Strategy and Policies       ...........................  3
C.  Detailed Features of the Rural Infrastructure Sub-Sector ...  5
1.  Institutions ........ ................. * ......... .        5 0*0 .  5
2.  Feeder Roads ................. ......................  7
3.  Bottomlands ........................................ 10
4. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation ................... ...... 13
D.  IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience   ....................... 15
III. THE PROJECT    .        ........................17
11. TEPOCT................................................... 1
A.  Project Objectives ........................................ . 17
B.  Summary Description ...................................... . 17
C.  Detailed Features .......  ........ . ................ ..... 19
1.  Institutional Development ............................ .. 19
2.  Investment and Maintenance Program ......      ............... 22
3.  Studies and Pilot Programs ............................. 28
D.  Project Cost and Financing .................................. 33
1. Cost Estimates ................ .............. 33
2.  Financing   .......................................... 34
3. Procurement ........................................ .  35
4.  Disbursements and Revolving Funds ...................... 38
5.  Accounts, Audits and Reporting ....... .................. 40
This report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission which took
place from May 29 to June 19, 1989, consisting of Messrs Jean-Claude Balcet
(Mission Leader, AF1AG), Donald Drayton (AFTAG), Beyene Wolde-Gabriel
(RWSG/WA,  Abidjan)  and  Siaka  Bakayoko  (AF1AA,  Abidjan),  Karl-Heinz
Fleischhaker and Heinz Neubauer (KfW), Iqbal Qazi (USAID), Yves Laurent
(FAC), Sven Hertel (ILO), Jacques Bret (consultant road engineer), and
Christian Araud (consultant road economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance
of their oMcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodzation.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
PMs
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............... ............................  41
A.  Project Organization .................. .............. .. ..  41
D.  Project Implementation ..... . ..................................... 43
C.  Personnel Policies . ................... .................... 44
D. Cost Recovery ................................ ... ... 45
V.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISS ..............................  46
A.  Project Benefits .................... ..*.0 ... ... *. 46
B. Economic Justification ........ ............................ . .... .   47
C.  Budgetary Implications .......... ... .. ......... ...............  48
D.  Employment and Poverty Impact .. ..... ........ ......... .... .*.*.....   49
E.  Environzental Impact ............ .. ......................... 49
F. Risks ................I.............. 00. ............. 0.  SO
VI. ASSURANCES. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION .o.................... 5.
ANNEXES
1. Territorial Organization of the Government
2. MARA's Organizational Structure at Central and Territorial Levels
3. MURA's Organigram (Central Services)
4. Organigram of DNGR
5. Organigram of SNAPE
6. RWS Public Investment Program (PIP) up to end-1988
7. RWS Public Investment Program (PIP) (1989-91)
8. List of Key Positions to be Filled by National Staff
9. Resident Technical Assistance (List of Positions and Terms of Refe.ence)
10. Training Program
11. Feeder Roads Program
12. Bottomland Development Program
13. Summary Account by Project Component and by Year, and Cost of
Yearly Routine Maintenance of Regional Rural Roads (1990-2000)
14. Procurement of Goods and Services (Main Lots)
15. Disbursement Profiles
16s Economic Analysis
17. Project Budgetary Impact
MAPSs  IBRD Nos 21840 - Project Investment Program
21841 - Project Implementation Structures



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Documents Contained in the Prolect File
A.  BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.   Deuxieme Projet d'Appui aux Services Agricoles, G6nie Rural,
Ministere du Developpement Rural/SCET-AGRI, Juillet 1987.
2.   Rapport Annuel d'Activit6s de la Direction G4ndrale du G4nie
Rural et de l'Hydraulique Villageoise pour l'Annie 1987.
3.   R6flexion sur l'Appui Technique a la Direction Generale du Genie
Rural, Ministire du D6veloppement Rural/BSD, 13 Janvier 1988.
4.   Pistes Rurales - Situation et Perspectives, Ministere du
DAveloppement Rural/BSD, 18 Janvier 1988.
B.   PREPARATI6N DOCUMENTS AND WORKING PAPERS
1.   Institutional Develolment
1.1 Organizational Structures
1.2  Training Program (MARA/DNFPR)
2. Investment Program
2.1 Feeder Roads (Preparation Document, SCET-AGRI)
2.2 Feeder Roads (Working Paper SEGMENT)
2.3 Bottomlands (SCET-AGRI)
2.4 Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSG/WA/Abidjan)
3.   Studies and Pilot Proarams
3.1 Feeder Roads Master Plan (BCEOM)
3.2  Labor Intensive "Cantonnagew and 'TAcheronnage' components
(SEGMENT)
3.3 Pilot Feeder Roads Program f 0)
4.   Financial and Economic Analyses
4.1 Project Financial Procedures
4.2 Methodology for the Economic Analysis
5. Work ProRrams
5.1 Detailed Work Program for PY1



- {i -
REPUBLIC OP GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrowers            The Government of Guinea
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MARA),
Rural Engineering Directorate (DNGR), and Rural Water
Supply Agency (SHAPE)
Credit Amountt       SDR 31.3 million (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Proiect Description: .he project would, over a five-year period, assist the
Government in implementing policies in rural
infrastructure by reinforcing institutions involved in
the sub-sector; implementing a specific rural
Infrastructure investment program; and formulating,
through master plans and pilot programs, coherent
frameworks to integrate rural infrastructure
operations and appropriate methods to enlist
grassroots participation. The project would include
three components:
(a) support to DNGR and SNAPE, including technical
assistance, staff training, renovation of offices and
provision ef equipment and supplies;
(b) implementation of an investment program, including
(i) rehabilitation and subsequent mwintenance of about
2,600 km of feeder roads; (ii) development of about
2,100 ha of small bottomlands; and (iii) improvement
in r'ral water supply and sanitation (RWSS) through
the drilling of 220 boreholes to be equipped with
handpumps, and implementation of two small community
piped water supply systems with sanitation components;
and
(c) preparation of studies and pilot programs including
(i) a Feeder Roads Master Plan; (ii) a Pilot Feeder
Roads Program to develop labor-based methods for road
maintenance and rehabilitation, and to promote the
emergence of small and medium scale contractors; (iii)
a Pilot Bottomland Development Program to develop
bottomlands with the assistance of a NGO; and (iv)
studies and pilot actions to define a national
strategy for RWSS development.



_ liii -
Z of
Estimated Proiect Costs a/            Local    Foreinn   Total    Base Cost
--__- (US$ million) ----
Institutional Development
DNGR Support                            2.3       7.5      9.8         14.4
SNAPE Support                           0.4       1.2      1.5          2.2
Training                                1.8       7.4      9.1         13.5
Investment aMd Maintenance
Feeder Roads                           10.2      25.0     35.2         51.8
Bottomlands                             0.7       1.6      2.2          3.3
Water Supply                            0.9       2.9      3.8          5.5
Studies and Pilot Programs
Studies                                 0.2       2.0      2.3          3.3
Pilot Programs                          0.8       3.3      4.1          6.0
Total Base Costs                       17.3      50.7     68.0        100.0
Physical Contingencies                  1.4       3.8      5.2          7.6
Price Contingencies                     7.0       8.7     15.7         23.0
Total Project Costs                    25.6      63.2    88.8         130.6
(Including Taxes)
Taxes                                   6.3               ,6.3
Total Project Costs                    19.3      63.2     82.5
(Net of Taxes)
a/  Including three PPF advances totalling US$1.45 million.
Financing Plan                              Local      Foreign       Total
---------(us$ million)--------
Government                                   7.9         5.6          13.5
IDA                                          7.3        32.7          40.0
KfW                                          1.8         5.0           6.8
USAID                                        7.5        19.5          27.0
FAC                                          0.1         0.4           0.5
Beneficiaries                                1.0          -            1.0
Total                                       25.6        63.2          88.8
_~ -
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year
1990  1991   1992   1993   1994  1995   1996
--(__----------_-(US$ million)--------------
Annual                       3.2   8.8   10.4      8.4    5.2   3.6    0.4
Cumulative                   3.2  12.0   22.4   30.8   36.0  39.6  40.0



- iv -
Benefits and Risks
Benefits. Agricultural productivity cannot increase significantly
wbere access roads are impassable and ability to get to the markets is
uncertain, and where minimus infrastructure at village level (water supply
as a priority) is non-existent. The proposed project aims at resolving such
problems  sd would have the following benefiss.  Institution buildings  The
project would make the present government policies operational, while
strengthening the institutions, including private enterprises, responsible
for rural infrastructure development.   Rural roads:  Benefits are those
normally associated with rural roads projects, i.e., acceleration of economic
grwvth, reduction of transportation costs, and expansion of commercial
services through better communications.   Bottomlands:   The main benefits
would be increased food production and farmer incomes, and land conservation.
Water Supl-Y:  Improvement of sanitary conditions and living standards would
directly benefit the rural population, including women, children and the
poor.
Risks.   The main risk of the project lies in the fragility of
governaent institutions following the changes in structures carried out
recently. The Government reorganization of ministries could result in a lack
of commitment of those civil servants in charge of implementing these
reforms. These risks are being addressed as part of the establishment, under
the Government's overall administrative reform program, of adequate
incentives for civil servants.
Technical risks due to shortages of trained staff are minimized
through training programs, technical assistance, and a minimal use of force
account in carrying out the works. The project was designed to explicitly
address the issue of maintenance of the rural infrastructure to ensure its
sustainability. Concerning the RWSS component, boreholes would be built in
villages that would make substantial financial contributions toward the
purchase of handpumps. The risk is that villages may not be willing or able
to make such substantial contributions, thereby undermining the establishment
of a viable maintenance system.  This risk is minimized by the sensitization
program to be undertaken as part of the project.
A final risk concerns the timely availability of counterpart funding.
This risk is minimized, however, by the fact that the Government is taking
drastic steps to improve public finance management under the SAL and that
participation by the beneficiaries would be sought, thereby decreasing the
Government's share of local funding.



- v-
RUPIEIC  OF uInEA
RATIONAL RMRAL                       PROMC
KUY FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTOR
Unit        ~~Average
U  1. PotuqIon                                   4unit             *-76               i9B
urs X of total                          3                      34.0         7 1Ca
Rural Fawillee                                                       011.0       770.0
2. Economic Over-view
GP7R/ad of Total Population
(cons. 191)                                 I                     310.0        804.0
Agric. COP/Head of
Rural Dovelopeent                          t                      140.0       165.0
Agricultgeal MP as X of Total                 x                       48.0        40.0
S. Lend Ue
GLnCdT-Xo                                     Gq.hm                  246.0       246.0
Perennial Crops                                '000 ha               181.0       211.0
Annual Crop.                                   '040 ha               912.0     1,820.0
4. Are  Foreted
Dene- Foreat                                  '000 ha                            600.0
Wooded Savanna                                 '000 ha                         1,700.0
Bush SaVanna                                   '000 ha                        12,000.0
Shrub Savanna end F llow                       '000 ha                         C,160.0
Mangrove                                      '000 he                            200.0
S. Otpu p
ATcel                                         74-75 AW. * 100        100.0        44:0
Fonlo                                             *100.0                        lSt.0
Caeeava                                                              100.0       120.0
Coffee                                                               100.0        61.0
F0. PI [zers                                   '00Q ton               -            1.0
7. Trade (Current Prices)
To-UT Export  (FS)                            OS 1a 0.                           6S4.6
of whIcn:
-  Agricultural Produc'e                    X                        5.4         8.4 a/
- Forest Products                                                                G O
-  Fish Product.                                                                 ( )p
Total Imports                                 * *                    267.0       461.7
TOZfO R eurrn*  Budget                                              212.0        251 O O
of which: Agriculture                       X                        -           1.0
Total Capital Budget                          I a                    174.0       121.0
of which: Agriculture                       x                       17.0         7.0
L
sIUnly corfee reported.~
/Govrnment prohibits log and timbor xport.
/ Excluding extrnally financed project.
/ Not reported owing to lack of monitoring of Industriol catch.



UiPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The Government of Guinea has undertaken an ambitious program of
economic reforms aimed at reversing the extremely poor economic management
which characterized the country from independence to 1984. Under the ongoing
Structural Adjustment (SAL) program, the Guinean economy is changing from a
highly centralized, inefficient command economy to one where resource
allocation decisions are based primarily on amrket signals. The SAL program
is designed to lay the foundations of growth through enhancing efficiency in
production and in public sector management in the context of a new role for
the state in promoting development. The proposed National Rural Infrastruc-
ture Project is consistent with the general thrust of this program.   It
would, in addition, contribute to lifting one of the major technical
constraints to agricultural growth, namely the dilapidated state of rural
infrastructure.
1.02    The SAL program, which entails a radical departure from the policies
of the past and requires a systemic change, has been supported by twc
structural adjustment creaits, a Special African Facility, and two annual
arrangements under a structural adjustment facility. Its main elements are:
(a)  withdrawal  of  the  state  from  directly  productive  sectors  and
restructuring of the public sector through a comprehensive administrative and
public enterprise reform; (b) resource allocation policies consistent with
the establishment of a flexible, liberal economy, through inter alia,
realistic exchange rate, interest rate, price and trade policies; and (c)
macroeconomic policies consistent with long-term fiscal and balance of
paymen-. equilibria.
1.03    The reform program has already generate.  -4bstantial improvement in
economic performance emanating principally ft. - the private sector with
significant increases in agriculture,  construction,  transport and trade
activities.  Weak institutions and the administration's limited capacity for
economic and financial management, however, continue to hamper the full
realization of Guinea's growth potential.  During the second phase of the
program, the Government aims to alleviate these constraints in order to
deepen and consolidate the ongoing process of adjustment. This is supported
by the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II, Cr. 1926, FY88) and the
Economic Management Support Project (EM4SP II, Cr. 1963, FY89) as well as by
the Private Sector Promotion Credit whi5ch is being appraised.   These
operations are designed to pursue the refozm of public sector management and
at the same time strengthen the incentives environment for private sector
activities.
1.04    In parallel to the SAL program, the Government is also aiming, under
its Public Investment Program (PIP), at alleviating a major constraint to



growth constituted by the extreme dilapidation of the country's
infrastructure  inherited  from the First Republic.    Rehabilitation  of
infrastructure in the primary transport sector (trunk roads, ports and
airports), and in the urban and industrial sectors is being addressed by
Government in the context of various projects financed by IDA and other
donors. Rural infrastructure rehabilitation and development are particularly
critical to the growth of agriculture in Guinea, but have until recently been
addressed only in the context of ad hoc operations and area-based projects.
This  fragmented  approach  results  in  duplication  of  resources  and
inefficiencies, and an analysis has determined that it is not sustainable.
Government has therefore prepared a national rural infrastructure strategy
and requested IDA's assistance to support its implementation.
1.05    The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing the
SAL policies in the rural infrastructure sub-sector in particular, by (a)
strengthening the capacity of the concerned institutions to plan and oversee
the execution and maintenance of rural infrastructure; and (b) promoting
private sector development through participation of small and medium scale
contractors and grassroots organizations in building and maintaining rural
infrastructure. At the same time, as an important element of the PIP, the
project would substantially contribute to lifting the infrastructure
constraint in rural areas by implementing a critical mass of feeder roads,
bottomlands, and water supply and sanitation investments. In line with the
Government's objective to withdraw from directly productive activities, this
would be achieved mostly through reliance on work execution by private
contractors.
1.06    The proposed project was prepared from October 1988 to April 1989 by
the National Directorate of Rural Engineering (DNGR) and the Rural Water
Supply Agency (SNAPE) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources
(MARA) with the help of consultants. An amount of US$400,0(;0 equivalent was
provided by IDA to help in this preparation under a first advance of the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) approved in August 1988. A second PPF
advance approved in December 1988 served to finance a Rural Roads Master Plan
which was used as the basis of the project rural roads component.   IDA
preparation missions visited Guinea in March and October 1988. The project
was pre-appraised in February 1989 and appraised in June 1989 by a mission
including representatives from KfW, FAC, and USAID who have agreed to
cofinance the project.
II. THE RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUB-SECTOR
A. Economic and Sector Settint
2.01    The Rural Sector.   The rural sector is the mainstay of Guinea's
economy, providing a livelihood to over 75Z of the population and generating
about 302 of GNP.   Agricultural production is predominantly based on
smallholder farming and largely subsistence-oriented.   Approximately 1.5
million ha Is cultivated annually by about 700,000 familie6.  While this



represents about one quarter of total arable land, the practice of leaving
land fallow implies that land capacity has nearly reached its limits, and
that further growth will have to result from intensification of agriculture
on the better soils rather than from extension of cultivated areas.
2.02    The favorable climate and agro-ecological diversity of Guinea offer
a wide range of possibilities fo- growth in the rural sector. Despite this
potential, agricultural performance has been disappointing during the past
three decades, resulting in low rural incomes (US$150 equivalent per year and
per capita on average) and an alarming urban migration.  The failure to
develop the agriculture sector stemed largely from distorted nacroeconomic
conditions, inadequate policies, ineffectual institutions and dilapidated
infrastructure. The economic, policy-related and institutional constraints
are being satisfactorily addressed by the Government under the SAL program.
Development of the infrastructure sector will be a critical factor in
realizing the benefits expected from these policies.
2.03    The Rural Infrastructure Sub-Sector.  Rural infrastructure (mainly
feeder  roads, irrigation and drainage works and rural water supply and
sanitation - RWSS) is relatively undeveloped in Guinea compared to
neighboring countries (para 2.19) and in severe disrepair. This situation
is the combined result of the historical past of the country, difficult
terrain, and the inevitable time lag rejuired to implement the newly
established government policies.
2.04    Lack of satisfactory rural infrastructure is a major constr.int to
Guinea's development. Without infrastructure, agricultural production can
not be stored and evacuated, inputs can not be transported, practically no
commercial activity can take place, and the sector production potential and
comparative advantage remain undeveloped, with farmers unable to shift away
from subsistence production.
2.05    Investments in infrastructure represent about 402 of the total capital
expenditures programmed under the PIP for 1989-91. The lion's share goes to
the public works and transport uub-sectors, which account for 30S of total
PIP disbursements.   The proposed project would represent about 62 of
investments in these sub-sectors. The above situation vividly demonstrates
the priority given by the Government to continue rehabilitating the country's
basic infrastructure, particularly rural infrastructure.
B. Government Strateav and Policies
2.06    Strategy.  the Government's strategic objective in the rural sector
is to improve the standards of living of the rural population by increasing
rural incomes and ensuring that the population's basic needs (food security,
health and education) are met and essential services are available.  The
Government's strategy to meet this objective, supported by IDA, is to (a)
implement the macroeconomic reforms agreed in the SAL and in   sector
adjustment programs, in particular to create a functioning market-oriented
economy; (b) provide agricultural services to the farming community.
especially applied research, extension, and input supply; (c) improve rural



- 4 -
infrastructure; and (d) develop the capacity of the Guinean public and
private institutions to provide services to the rural sector (mainly in
planning, strategy formulation, investment selection, implementation and
management of investment programs in government departments, and private
services in all sectors).
2.07    The development of agricultural research and extension, including
related institution building and staff training, is being addressed under the
National Research and Extensio, Project  (PNRVA, Cr. 1955,  1988).   The
proposed National Rural Infrastructure Project addresses the rural
infrastructure sub-sector.
2.08    Policies.  The main aspects of government policies applicable to the
rural infrastructure sub-sector are consistent with the general policy
orientation described above. They are summarized below:
(a)   the Government will progressively withdraw from services which could
be provided efficiently by the private sector. Consequently, in the
context of the project, the amount of force account work performed
by government services (especially DNGR and SNAPE) would be kept to
a minimwm;
(b)   beneficiaries will participate in the selection of rural investments
and contribute financially and in kind to the maintenance of
infrastructures, and when possible, to their construction.  This
policy aims at ensuring the sustainability of investments by
generating commitment of beneficiaries and recovering most of the
costs;
(c)   the Government will integrate externally financed projects into
national programs, and through this integration, will progressively
reduce the number of projects being implemented in the agriculture
sector. This policy aims at reducing duplication of resources and
at ensuring the sustainability of actions undertaken in the context
of individual projects.   It does not exclude the financing of
projects t.. :geted to specific regions by some financing agencies;
and
(d)   foreign experts will emphasize the training of national staff in
order to progressively reduce the need for such experts.   This
policy aims at the sustainability of institution building actions
implemented under various projects.
The project general objective is to assist the Government in implementing
these policies.



-5-
C. Detailed Features of the Rural Infrastructure Sub-Sector
1. Institutions
2.09    In  the  context  of  the  proposed  project,  the  term   rural
infrastrucLure' applies to investments made outside the main urban centers
under the jurisdiction of the Rural Engineering Directorate (DNGR) (i.e.,
rural roads, irrigation and drainage works) and of the Rural Water Supply
Agency (SNAPE) both within the Hinistry of Agriculture and Animal Resources
(MARA). National roads (i.e., trunk roads) are under the responsibility of
the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTTP), as described in para 2.18.
Responsibility for rural investments in the health and education sectors is
vested in the ministries of Health and of Education respectively, but these
ministries might delegate some works in the future to DNGR on an ad hoc
basis. Only infrastructure development under the responsibility of MARA is
included in the proposed project.  Other infrastructures, such as national
roads in rural areas, rural schools, and health facilities are developed
outside the project by relevant public institutions.   In some cases IDA
provides projects in support of such infrastructure.
2.10    Administrative Structure and Institutional Reform.  The country is
divided into four administrative regions which correspond to the four natural
regions of Guinee Maritime, Moyenne Guinee, Haute Guinee and Guin4e
Foresti6re, and 33 spr4fectures". The latter are in turn divided into sous-
prefecturess and these into districts which form the basic administrative
units of the country.
2.11    An administrative reform has been implemented in the context of the
SAL program to resolve the problem of staff redundancy at lower levels,
combined with a shortage of adequately trained staff at both management and
technical levels. As part of this reform, most civil servants have been
formally tested, organizational charts for the main ministries have been
prepared (including a quantification of authorized positions), and the
organization charts of central ministerial structures have been completed.
Todate about 30,000 staff have been laid off or retired from the civil
service. The final objective is 45,000.
2.12    Similarly, recent decrees have defined the organization and the
assignments of the territorial administration ("administration d6concentr4e")
i.e., services of the State geographically located in the four regions and
the prefectures and sub-prefectures (Annexes 1 and 2).   The legal texts
reinforce the administrative responsibilities entrusted to the four Resident
Ministers, who are government members residing in the regions and considered
the direct representatives of the President of the Republic. They also give
the prefects an expanded role in the coordination and control of technical
services regrouped in six 'directions pr4fectorales'. At the same time,
however, the texts lay the foundation for a future decentralized
administration which will give more weight to scollectivites d4centralisees"
(decentralized collectivities) which will have freely elected leaders at



village and regional levels. This is particularly significant and important
for the proposed project which aims at mobilizing grassroots participation.
2.13    The main institutions directly involved in the rural infrastructure
sub-sector are the followings
(a) the Rural Engineering Directorate (DNGR) is part of MARA and would
be one of the two major bodies implementing the project. DNGR is in
charge of policy formulation in the rural infrastructure sub-sector,
and of planning and managing the implementation of national rural
infrastructure programs. The structure of MARU is shown in Annex 3.
The organization of DNGR, including its central and regional services,
is shown in Annex 4;
(b) the Rural Water SuDDlY AQencY (SNAPE) is a public agency in charge
of implementing rural water supply (RWS) programs, mostly through
private contractors, and follows the general government policies
summarized above.  SNAPE is a relatively efficient agency and has
benefited from the support of various donors. As a result of the
institutional reform, SNAPE was recently incorporated into MARA, but
continues to operate with a large degree of autonomy. The structure
of SNAPE is summarized in Annex 5. Under its proposed new statutes,
it weruld become an "Organisms PersonnalisA', i.e., a state agency
having legal personality with financial and administrative autonomy
(para 4.03); and
(c) the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTTP) is in charge of
all activities concerning the national road network. Reorganization
of MTTP and an investment program In the transport sector are underway
in the context of the Transport Sector Project and the Fourth Highway
Project Cpara 2.48). Arrangements to coordinate the activities of
MTTP and DNGR are described in para 2.18.
2.14    Construction Industry.  In the past, large scale construction works
were carried out almost exclusively by foreign contractors, because domestic
construction contractors were extremely small and disorganized. However, as
a result of this exclusion, domestic contractors had no opportunity to
emerge. Maintenance wores were done by force account, in particular for road
works.   Since the establishment of the new economic framework by the
Government, some medium scale contractors have appeared, coming mainly from
neighboring countries.   These firms have expanded their operations  in
Guinea's building sector and have started competing with large foreign firms
for road rehabi'itation and maintenance, and other construction work. There
are small Guinean contractors for the construction of relatively small
buildings, an activity which is thriving in the main towns, but the
workmanship is usually substandard.
2.15    To promote the construction industry and help create an intermediate
class of small scale contractors, the following actions are proposeds
(a) international contractors would be provided with information on
Guinean contractors and would be encouraged to subcontract certain



-7-
portions of the works  (e.g.,  drainage  systems,  small bridges,
culverts, etc.) to small national private contractores
(b) some items of work (e.g., small road rehabilitation lots of 30 km or
less) would be specified in such a way that they would appeal to
small local private entrepreneurs;
(c) the preference clause of 7.5X provided for local contracting under
Bank procedures would apply; and
td) some sections of roads to be rehabilitated would be used to train
Guinean contractors (para 3.45).
2.16    As the business climate in the country improves, there will be good
potential for the establishment of a small and medium scale construction
industry. Under the SAL program, the Goverfment aims at supporting small
industries, including construction industries, by (a) revising and easing
regulations applicable to them which have restrained development of the
industry in the past; (b) improving the efficiency of support institutions;
and (c) improving the availability of credit to local contractors. The Pilot
Feeder Roads Program, to be undertaken as part of the proposed project (paras
3.36 - 3.46), would supplement these efforts.
2. Feeder Roads
2.17    Terminoloiv. Road Classification and Administration.  No consistent
terminology concerning the various kinds of roads is used in Guinea because
no official system of road classification exists in the country. However,
such a system is under preparation in the context of the Transport Sector
Project. In the present report, the following terms are useds
(a) the National Road Network of about 4,000 km (including 1,300 km of
paved roads, connecting the capital, Conakry, to most prefectures and
to the main border points and sea ports);
(b) the Regional Road Network of about 3,000 km, linking isolated
remaining prefectures to the national network, prefectures to sous-
prefectures, and prefectures to secondary border points; and
(c) the Rural Road Network of about 11,500 km, consisting of all other
roads.  This network includes roads connecting the subprefectures to
villages and areas where agricultural production or other activities
take place. Most of these roads are impassable during part of the
year.
Roads under items (b) and (c) above are subsequently referred to as 'feederw
roads.
2.18    The MTTP is theoretically responsible for the national and regional
networks, but de facto delegates responsibility for the latter network to
MARA.   MARA (through DNGR) is therefore responsible for the planning,



construction,   rehabilitation and maintenance of all feeder roads, i.e.,
regional and rural roads.   The rationale for DNGR's constructing and
maintaining regional roads in Guinea at present is the linkage with
agriculture.  Since the interior of Guinea is so much behind in terms of
economic and infrastructure development, the regional roads are still mostly
used  for  agricultural  traffic.    Therefore,  policies  and  investments
concerning the regional network largely affect agriculture. As the economic
fabric develops in the interior, the situation is bound to evolve, with the
regional roads gradually playing a larger role in support of broad-based
economic  activities.    As  a  result,  MTTP  should  gradually  be  given
responsibility  for these roads.   To this end,  it should undertake a
commensurate expansion of its operational capacity which is presently
insufficient.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the present
delineation of responsibilities, wherein MTTP is responsible for the national
and regional networks and MARA for the rural roads network, be made official
with the proviso that MTTP would delegate its responsibility for the regional
network to MARA over the medium-term. In the meantime, HTTP and MAU would
coordinate the planning and execution of their respective work programs. In
particular, MTTP would be associated to the programming and supervision of
activities concerning the regional network carried out under the proposed
project. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
2.19    The Road Network.  Guinea has a road network presently 'passable"
(in the sense that vehicles are able to use them) totalling about 12,000 km.
They are classified as indicated in para 2.17 (i.e., only 5,000 km of feeder
roads can be considered "passable' at present, among the total of about
14,500 km of feeder roads identified under the Master Plan prepared as part
of project preparation (para 3.35)). In terms of road density, Guinea is one
of the more poorly served countries in Africa, with 4.3 km of roads per 100
km2 and 1.8 km per 1,000 inhabitants, compared with 11.9 km in Ghana, 13.6
km in Cameroon, and 14.8 km in COte d'Ivoire.
2.20    The extremely poor condition of the network is a major constraint to
the movement of produce along the coast and from the hinterland to Conakry;
in some instances these flows have stopped altogether and large areas of the
country have become completely  isolated.   These conditions jeopardize
government efforts to develop a productive market-oriented agriculture as
part of the newly liberalized economy.
2.21    Rehabilitation of the national network has been initiated under the
IDA-financed Third Highway Project; it is being pursued under the IDA-
financed Transport Sector and Fourth Highway Projects (para 2.48) and under
several other projects, particularly in Guinee Forestiere, with financing
provided by the Saudi and Kuwaiti development funds.   Various ongoing
projects provide for the rehabilitation and construction of feeder roads in
specific locations.   Such projects includes   the IDA-financed Gueckedou
Agricultural Development Project (PAG) and the FRG-financed Kissidougou
Integrated Rural Development Project (DERIK) in Guinde Forestiere; a
CCCEIEEC-financed cotton development project and the IFAD/AfDB-financed
Siguiri Rice Project (ORS) in Haute-Guinee; the IFAD-financed Area
Development Project and the UNCDF/UNDP-financed Fouta-Djallon Integrated



Development Project in Moyenne Guinee; and various small operations scattered
across the country. The works undertaken in the context of these specific
projects are unlikely to be maintained and kept operational after the end of
these projects. Therefore, in accordance with government policy to integrate
all projects into national plans (para 2.08(c)), DNGR would progressively
assume or formalize the delegation of responsibility for the maintenance of
these roads.
2.22    Traffic and Road Transport.  Due to inadequate data, it is difficult
to determine the size of Guinea's over-aged and heterogeneous vehicle fleet.
The existing fleet is adequate to meet present transport demand, but when
economic activity picks up, a considerable increase in transport capacity
will be required.   At present there is little transport on most of the
regional and rural road networks, because most existing roads are impassable
during parts of the year, and transport costs are prohibitive due to the
extremely poor conditions of the roads. Project preparation studies estimate
that, once the roads become passable and are properly maintained, traffic
will increase and transport cost will decrease dramatically.
2.23    Execution of Road Maintenance. Maintenance of -ural roads is severely
neglected due to lack of public funds. However, more often than not, some
critical works, such as the repair of bridges and the filling up of washed-
away road sections, have been carried out through informal arrangements
between DNGR and local communities, DNGR supplying civil works equipment and
the local communities providing fuel (and controlling its use). There are
also instances of bridges built with little or no government assistance.
Although such arrangements are relatively rare dnd have not yet been
sufficiently encouraged by DNGR, they demonstrate vividly the interest of
some communities in improving their roads.
2.24    With the improvements expected under the project,  the need for
capabilities in road maintenance would further increase. Although DNGR would
retain some limited force account capability on a temporary basis to carry
out emergency repairs, all major maintenance works would be contracted out.
Periodic maintenance would be carried out by local medium scale contractors,
whereas routine maintenance would be entrusted to laymen and small
contractors (Itacherons') (para 3.26). 'Cantonnage" schemes, in which
maintenance is undertaken by local paid labor responsible for specific
sections of road, would be tested under the project (para 3.43).
2.25    Funding of Road Maintenance.   Funding for road maintenance is
presently inadequate. This results in most roads--feeder roads especially--
being left unmaintained and deteriorating, with attendant negative
consequences on agricultural production. The issue has to do mostly with the
slowness of disbursement of funds from the Government's general budget. IDA
recently indicated to the Government that the issue could be best addressed
by means of a budgetary line item for road maintenance, subject to an
accelerated disbursement procedure (provided for within the framework of
existing government procedures), whereby funds would be made available each
quarter and in advance to a special account at the Central Bank, for expected
expenditures (para 5.09).



- 10 -
2.26    Road Planning.  Under the Third Highway Project, a small Transport
Planning Unit was created in late 1985 within the former Secretariat of State
for Transport, to start the data base required for a medium-term transport
plan. As part of the Fourth Highway Project, an indicative road network
development plan was established. This plan includes investments required
to build, upgrade and improve the paved, gravel and earth roads of both the
national road network and the regional road network. It served as the basis
for a donors meeting on the transport sector which took place in Conakry in
April 1988.
2.27    The planning process for feeder roads undertaken by MAP.IDNGR has
evolved as followst
(a) in the context of preparation studies for projects in the agriculture
sector in 1986 and 1987, consultants established a rural roads program
of 1,500 km to be rehabilitated over five years and submitted to donor
agencies, including IDA (SCET-AGRI report, Project File No. 1);
(b) following a donors meeting on the agriculture sector in October 1987,
DNGR carried out further studies, mostly synthesizing existing
information, and MARA commissioned a study to prepare a Master Plan
for the development of feeder roads;
(c) the Master Plan was initially entrusted to the MARA's Central Planning
Unit (Bureau de Stratdgie et de Developpement - BSD).   However,
following curtailment and reorientation of BSD activities in October
1988, it was decided that this plan would be undertaken as an integral
part of the project preparation activities, under a second PPF advance
of US$300,000; and
(d) the Master Plan was completed in April 1989, and is being made
operational under the project. It is based on data for 14,500 km of
roads and provides for the ranking of a sublet of 8,000 km of these
roads. It is the framework for the project investment program.
3.  Bottomlands
2.28    General Characteristics and Taxonomy.   Bottomlands are natural
depressions which result in woodlands which themselves are characterized by
a relatively shallow valley with a flat floor. Wet conditions throughout,
or at certain times of the year, are essential features, and these conditions
can be caused by flooding or a high groundwater table. Bottomlands are among
the potentially more productive lands in Guinea when properly utilized. The
main favorable factors aret   (a) relatively flat topography which permits
a wide range of cultivation methods including animal traction; (b) soils of
moderate fertility on which a number of crops can be grown;   (c) water
availability (surface and ground water) allowing longer cropping seasons; and
(d) good potential for intensifying agriculture in this ecological zone.



- 11 -
2.29    The bottomlands of Guinea can be broadly divided into two categories
based on sizes small bottomlands (less than 50 ha) of which there are about
60,000 ha, with about 2,000 ha under some form of cultivations and relativoly
large plains (ranging from 50 to 1,000 ha) which total about 100,000 ha and
are undeveloped for the most part. In both ecosystems, water depth varies
considerably based on a number of factors, such as size of watershed,
duration and intensity of rainfall, natural drainage, and other sources of
water. Bottomlands are fcund in all four ecological zones of the country.
A large number of crops (annuals and perennials) are grown on these
bottomlands, and livestock graze on them particularly in the dry season when
vegetation is scarce elsewhere. The main crops grown are rice, vegetables,
bananas, maize, groundnuts, sweet potatoes and cassava.
2.30    Rationale. Objective and Scope for Bottomland Develogment.   The
development of small bottomlands is of particular interest because they are
well suited for simple water management techniques and their small size makes
them manageable by local communities. Many of these communities have on
their own initiative been exploiting bottomlands for many years. However,
with the exception of recent externally funded projects, very little research
and extension have been available in support of improving bottomlavd
cultivation techniques. Also, the utilization of bottomlands has been viewed
largely in relation to increasing rice production. The development of the
large plains is not a priority because of the technical and managerial
complexity inherent to this kind of development, and the present lack of
implementation capacity in the village communities.   In addition, the
technical and economic feasibility of developing large plains varies and
should be assessed on an individual basis.   The proposed project would
therefore focus on the development of small bottomlands, giving priority to
those in which exploitation has already started.
2.31    To fully exploit small bottomlands, a corbination of agronomic and
infrastructure improvements are necessary.   Agronomic improvements would
include water management techniques, improved land preparation methods
(including animal traction), improved varieties suited to existing
conditions, improved seed, timely planting activities to facilitate multiple
cropping, and selective use of fertilizers and agro-chemicals for crop
protection.   Typical infrastructure improvements include reshaping water
drainage courses, in-field bonding to permit retention of sufficient water
for rice cultivation, and building small control structures to limit draw-
down of the water table at the beginning of the dry season.
2.32    The *Bottomland Comilex'.   Bottomland components are included in
several    ongoing  projects.    The  IDA-financed  Gueckedou  Agricultural
Development Project in particular has successfully improved cultivation
techniques in bottomlands and has introduced the concept of developing the
*bottomland complex" which includes adjacent slopes, in order that farmers
and their f' milies concentrate agricultural activities around the bottomland.
This approuch encourages the replacement of the slash-and-burn itinerant form
of cultivation with a stable improved system which can be sustained by the
farmer. It therefore reduces the ecological damage that is common in the



- 12 -
slash-and-burn  system presently practiced  in the forest zone.   These
techniques are directly replicable, and the Government has indicated its
intention to adopt this approach for all projects with bottomland components
in forest zones.
2.33    Land Tenure.  Land tenure plays an important role in the utilization
of land, and the Government policy has in the past left problems which could
affect the exploitation of some bottomlands. Legally the land belongs to the
state. However, villagers have the right of use, such right being attributed
to the first occupants of the land, who can transfer these rights for parts
of their property to others without losing their own priority rights. Almost
all land hae been attributed to families and, therefore, there is hardly any
free land available. Land distribution between families of the same lineage
is the responsibility of the head of the larger family group, without
committing a definitive division of the attributed family land. Arrangements
for the use of a plot of land by a non-family member can only be made with
the approval of the head of the family.   Generally, these arrangements
exclude the establishment of perennial crops and are of short duration for
the cultivation of annual crops. During the previous regime, disruptions in
this system occurred through appropriation by the Government of agricultural
lands (including bottomlands) for such projects as the state farms for
resettling young agriculturists (FAPAs).  Since the dissolution of these
projects, land, which in some cases had been allocated to government workers,
is a continued source of dispute because traditional rights have not been
restored.
2.34    MARA has commissioned the drafting of a new land law which is to be
based on the recognition of customary rights and should lead to tCe evolution
of private ownership. However, the Government has taken no final decision
about the principles on which land rights are to be based, nor has it decided
which land the state will retain as its property. To address this issue, the
TDA-financed Forestry and Fisheries Management Project (FY9lL) signed in
November 1989, includes a pilot land tenure operation which aims at
strengthening MARA's capacity to identify and record rural land rights and
prepare an inventory and registry for selected areas, particularly in the
forest zone which requires protection from increased encroachment.
2.35    In the case of bottomlands, problems of land tenure are most likely
to be found in relation to those in or near towns or large villages, where
pressure to exploit is greatest.  At present, the prefects resolve these
issues, and in some cases, have set up commissions to re-allocate land in
bottomlands previously held by the Government. The project would concentrate
on bottomlands already in use, but would ensure, through a system of
consultation with village heads and farmers associated with the cultivation
of the bottomlands, that no disputes exist over land tenure ilghts where
project intervention is expected. This approach would be further aided by
the creation of farmers associations as proposed in para 2.36 below, the
basis of which would be the mutual exploitation of bottomlands by members.
2.36    Farmers Associations.  Farmers cooperatives in Guinea date back to
colonial times, particularly in Guinde Maritime where they exported as much



- 13 -
as 100,000 tons of fruit. Production and export s drupped dramatically in the
post-colonial period and have remained negligible since then.   The late
government-imposed substantial changes in the cooperative movement in keeping
with its policy of collectivization gave rise to the creation of the PAPAs
(para 2.33). Many of the old farmers cooperatives continue to exist although
only in name, since commercial activities have long ceased. A new approach
would be required to restart cooperatives in these areas.   Elsewhere in
Guinea, various forms of traditional work groups exist.   In the Forest
Region, these groups consist of 7 to 10 farmers of approximately the same
age, who carry out essential agricultural and other activities on each
other's  farm on  a  rotational  basis.    In  the  Gudckedou Agricultural
Development Project, these traditional groups are being used as the base for
the formation of pre-cooperative groups to faciiitate the diffusion of
extension messages, for credit and inputs distribution and management, and
for developing bottomlands.   In Coyah, under the direction of technical
assistAnts furnished by a French NGO, the Association Frangaise des
Volontaires du Progres (AFVP), a four-hectare bottomiand is being cultivated
by farmers who have formed an association for the production and marketing
of their produce (rice and vegetables). They have established a revolving
fund for purchasing inputs and decide collectively on crops to be grown.
2.37    The Government's policy  is geared towar(  encouraging the free
establishment of farmers cooperatives. A National Cooperative Support Agency
(SNATC) has been established, which would be responsible for providing
guidance to new and old cooperatives whose activities are expected to include
procurement and distribution of inputs, marketing, credit and the
mobilization of members  savings.  However, its statutes   id to be revised
as they do not provide for sufficient operating autonomy.    nding has been
provided under the Guinea National Research and Extension Project (Credit
1955-GUI, FY89) to assist SNATC in developing its activities.   In the
development of bottomlands, cooperatives can be a vehicle for carrying out
improved water control measures, for which coordination is important. Other
benefits would be those related to inputs, marketing, etc.   The project
would, therefore, actively seek SNATC assistance in promoting cooperatives
among bottomland farmers.
4. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS)
2.38    Well endowed with annual rainfall that varies from 1,200 to 4,000
mm, Guinea has aDundant surface water which is often perennial. There are
also many springs in mountainous areas (Fouta Djallon and to a lesser extent
Guinee Forestiare). The water supply problem in terms of quantity is only
acute in the northernmost part of Moyenne Guinee and Haute Guinde.   The
problem of RWS in Guinde Forestibre is not one of quantity but quality of
water.
2.39    Three-fourths of the rural population still relies on water from
traditional wells, ponds and streams which is often contaminated. At the end
of the dry season about 302 of the rural inhabitants typically has to travel
long distances to get water, and per capita consumption drops sharply (as low
as 5 liters per capita per day--lcd). Moreover, rura.l sanitation practically



- 14 -
does not exist.   The Ministry of Health estimates that about 50? of all
morbidity and mortality rates (which for infants and children are among the
highest in Africa) is associated with waterborne disease and lack of
sanitation.   The Government has therefore decided to provide for inclusion
of sanitation componeuts as integral parts or complements to RWS projects.
2.40    To meet its RWS requirements, Guinea has established a program in
three phases:  (a) phase 1 (1979-1995) will provide 10 lcd to 55? of the
rural population by 1995, by creating 6,500 water points for villages with
population over 300; (b) phase 2 (1996-2000) is designed to provide the same
amount of water supply (10 lcd) to smaller rural settlements by creating an
additional 5,700 water points by the year 2000: and (c) phase 3 will aim at
supplying 20 lcd to the rural poprlation by constructing an additional 10,000
vater points. As of end-1988, 2,300 rural water points had been created
under Phase 1 (Annex 6) at a cost of US$20 million (half of these are
boreholes equipped with handpumps, one-third is wells partly equipped with
handpumps, and the remainder 17 is spring catchments). This has permitted
to serve about 1.25 million rural dwellers, i.e., 23Z of the total rural
population of 5.4 million.  Annex 7 gives a list of RWSS projects included
in the Public Investment Program fox 1989-90. With respectively 47Z and 40?
of their Phase 1 objectives achieved, Hoyenne Guinee and Haute Guinee are the
two better served regions.
2.41    Guinee Forestiere is the region that has least benefited from Phase
1 of the program: 145 water points have been constructed in o;.e prefecture,
representing only a fraction (2.22) of the national objective. About 60? of
the remaining villages, i.e., 1,100 villages, are ln the project area
(Kissidougou and Gudck4dou prefectures), with a population of about 100,000
each. There are several markets of regional importance in these two areas,
particularly in the towns of Kissidougou and Gueck0dou snd the villages of
Yend0-Millimou and Nongoa. Several businesses in Conakry have branches in
Kissidougou and Gu0ck0dou.
2.42    Information on the sanitary conditions of the population in the area,
even though partial, shows the omnipresence of bilharzia and hookworm
disease, and a high incidence of tuberculosis and leprosy. In general, the
sanitary conditions of the villages in Guin6e Forestibre are much more
precarious than in the other regions of the country.   Even the larger
villages, where the need for sanitary means of excreta disposal is great,
have only small traditional latrines built by individual households.
2.43    More than 902 of the villages is situated on hill tops or plateaus.
The water sources located at lower levels are rarely farther than 500 m from
the villages and exceptionally more than 1 km. Drawing water requires little
effort because the water level even in wells is close to the ground surface.
Carrying water, however, is a strenuous task for women, who have to walk on
steep and slippery footpaths.
2.44    Villagers obtain their water chiefly from non-protected surface water
(backwaters, ponds and springs), but sometimes traditional wells are also
used, particularly in Kissidougou. Because most water points are perennial



- - 3 -
and have a reduced yield during the dry season, the waiting time is more than
one hour. The water consumed in the area is often contaminated. Thus, the
problem of water supply in most of Guinee Foresti&re and in the project area
is of quality and not of quantity. In this regard, even though the potential
for wells and to a certain extent for springs is good, priority should be
given to the drilling of boreholes. These boreholes should be located in or
near villages, so as to ensure that they will be used and maintained.
Consistent with the Government's objective to limit expansion of force
account vork, the drilling of the boreholes under the pr)ject would be done
by private contractors. Similarly, the private sector should be encouraged
to undertake the construction of wells and development of springs.  To this
effect, the feasibility of promoting and supporting small and medium scale
contractors would be studied under the project (para 3.51).
2.45    Because the area has not yet benefited from any RWS project, villagers
are not accustomed to using lined wells, boreholes or pumps. Therefore, the
advantages of clean water may not be immediately evident to them. In the
prefecture of Kissidougou, however, there are indications that the villagers'
attitude toward improved water supply may be changing. In the framework of
the DERIK project (para 2.21), for example, they have accepted to pay
significant amounts (up to GF 72,000 per well) for the digging of a few open
wells.
D. IDA's Sector -_rateay and ExDerience
2.46    IDA's assistance ItAn Guinea's rural sector has emphasized raising
smallholders' incomes while creating durable institutions in both the public
and private sectors, basically supporting the Government's strategy outlined
in para 2.06. The improvement of rural infrastructure plays a major role in
implementing this strategy. At the macroeconomic level. IDA has supported
economic and financia'l reforms aimed, inter alia. at pzoviding incentives to
agricultural production, through SAL I (IDA Cr. 1659-GUI and the Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa, Cr. Alil-GUI of February 1986) and SAL II
(IDA Cr. 1926-GUI of June 1988).
2.47    At the sector level, IDA has financed the following projects, which
include substantial infrastructure components:
(a) the Rice DeveloDment Proiect (Cr. 952-GUI, US$10.4 million, September
1979) promoted rice development in Guinee Forestiere;
(b) the Livestock Development Proiect (Cr. 1063-GUI, US$21.1 million,
September 1980) was cancelled in September 1983 due to the
Government's failure to take adequate policy measures;
(c) the Gu4ckedou Asricultural DeveloDment Proiect (Cr. 1635-GUI, US$6.7
million, November 1985) was built upon the success of the previous
project and pioneered techniques in bottomland development (para
2.31).  It has progressed up to the point where, consistent with the
Government's policy to set up programs of national scope in each major
sub-sector, the management of the various components is being



- 16 -
integrated into the framework provided by corresponding national
projects, including the proposed project;
(d) an %aricultura' Services Pro4,ect (Cr. 1636-GUI, US$7.5 million,
November 1985) was designed to improve NARA's capability in planning,
policy formulation, and project analysis, through the establishment
of a plannirng office (BSD). The project has had mixed results. It
has recently been scaled down and reoriented;
(e) the Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Pro1ect (Cr. 1725-GUI, US$9.8
million, July 1986) includes most of the components of the previous
livestock project, including rural infrastructure related to livestock
development.  After a slow start-up, the project is now progressing
satisfactorily; and
(f) the National Research and Extension Proiect (Cr. 1955-GUI, US$18.4
million, Sentember 1988) is establishing a nation-wide research and
extension service.
2.48    Other infrastruc,.ure projects with direct impact on the rural sector
include investments in the transport sector, for which IDA has been miong the
principal sources of external financing. These projects include:
(a) the First Hiphwav Proiect (Cr. 596-GUI, PY75, US$14 million). The
project was satisfactorily completed in 1980;
(b) the Second Hiphwav Proiect (Cr. 853-GUI and EEC-33 GUI, FY79, US$17
million).   The project institution-building objectives were not
achieved, but after strong remedial action, the project was completed
in 1984 and yielded a satisfactory rate of return;
(c) the Third Highway Prolect (Cr. 1457-GUI, May 1984, US$28 million);
this ongoing project was prepared during the previous regime and
designed for a different institutional and economic environment. A
major feature was the establishment of an autonomous Roads Project
Office (OPR). At the onset of the Second Republic, the project was
redesigned. to reorient OPR's structure toward that of a commercial
contracting enterprise. OPR is now being privatized as part of the
Transport Sector Project;
(d) the TransDort Sector Prolect (Cr.1815-GUI, June 1987, US$55 million)
provides a policy framework to ensure efficiency and effectiveness
of public and private institutions operating in the sector; and
(e) the Fourth Hiahway Proiect (Cr. 1915-GUI, June 1988, US$55 million).
Rehabilitation programs included in the Third and Fourth Highway
Projects focus on national roads which form the backbone of the feeder
roads network to be rehabilitated under the proposed project.
2.49    The project would be IDA's first involvement in the RVSS sub-sector
in Guinea. Previous projects in the water supply and sanitation sector are



- 17 -
the Conakry WaterlSanitation Project (Credit 870-GUI. FY80) and the recently
approved Second Water Supply Project. Through the latter, the Bank would
continue to support a major reorganization of the urban water supply sub-
sector that would involve partial privatization of operations in line with
the Government's policy to increase participation of the private sector in
the provision of services.
2.50    Finally, IDA, under a US$250,000 SPPF, i' assuming leadership of a
group of donors (the main ones are USAID, -ne Canadian Agency for
International Development, and EEC) in assisting the Government to design an
Environmental Action Plan (EAP). As part of this process, an Environmental
Advisory Group has been created at the Planning Ministry (MPCI). The Guinean
official who would be nominated at DNGR to deal with the environmental impact
of feeder roads as part of project implementation (para 5.12) would liaise
closely with this advisory group in making the required environmental
assessments.
III. THE PROJECT
A.     Proiect Obiectives
3.01    The project general objective would be to strengthen the Government's
ability to implement policies in the rural infrastructure sub-sector, as
described in para 2.08.  Specific objectives would be to:
(a) reinf rce the capacity of institutions involved in the sub-sector;
(b) implement a specific rural infrastructure investment program; and
(c) formulate master plans for further development of rural infrastructure
operations, and implement pilot actions to test new methods of
construction and maintenance of rural infrastr"cture, particularly
actions involving grassroots participation.
B.     Summary Description
3.02    Proiect Comnonents.  To meet the above objectives, the project would
include the following componentss
1. Institutional Development
(a) support to the Rural Engineering Directorate (DNGR);
(b) support to the Rural Water Supply Agency (SNAPE); and
Cc) staff training.



- 18 -
2. Investment and Maintenance Proaram
Ca) rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance of about 2,600 km of feeder
roads;
(b) development of about 2,100 ha of small bottomlands; and
(c) provision of water to about 140 villages through the drilling of 220
boreholes to be equipped with handpumps, and implementation of two
small community piped water supply systems with sanitation components.
3. Studies and Pilot Programs
(a) preparation of a Feeder Roads Master Plan to serve as blue-print to
implement further feeder roads investments;
(b) implementation of a Pilot Feeder Roads Program to develop labor-based
methods for maintenance and rehabilitation of feeder roads, and to
promote the emergence of small and medium scale contractors;
(c) implementation of a Pilot NGO-Supported Bottomland Development
Program; and
(d) studies and pilot actions to define a national strategy for RWSS
development.
3.03    Proiect Scone.  The project activities would take place in all four
natural regions, but would support in priority zones covered by specific
agricultural development activities in 16 of the 33 prefectures of the
country, including, but not limited to, the areas covered by the IDA-financed
National Research and Extension project.
3.04    Rationale for IDA Involvement.  Rural infrastructure rehabilitation
requires support of a scope and nature that IDA is in a position to provide.
The proposed project would complement other IDA-financed projects (National
Research and Extension, Transport Sector, and Fourth Highway) in stimulating
agricultural production and income. The project RSS component would benefit
from the UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program through the Abidjan-
based Regional Water and Sanitatiou Group. Through the project, IDA would
play a catalytic role in enabling the Government to coordinate the activities
of the many donors  involved in the rural infrastructure  sector.   In
particular, the project would assist the Government in integrating all
externally financed projects into a national program for rural infrastructure
development. IDA has a significant comparative advantage in providing this
kind of support given its involvement in structural adjustment, anx
agriculture  and  infrastructure  development  in  Guinea.    Moreover,  its
leadership role would ensure that adequate attention is paid to critical
aspects such as institutional development and cost recovery issues.



- 19 _
C.      Detailed Features
1.  Institutional Development
(a) Support to the Rural Engineering Directorate (DNGR)
3.05    General.   This component would provide support to DNGR and its
decentralized services as presently established following their recent
restructuring under th-- Government's administrative reform program.  This
would include techni al assistance, staff training, construction and
renovation  of offices  and  facilities,  and provision  of miscellaneous
equipment. The component would also provide for similar support to the four
Regional Bureaus of Rural Engineering (BTGRs) to be created under the project
(para 4.01).
3.06    Technical Assistance. Technical assistance would consist of resident
and visiting experts. All internationally recruited resident experts would
be placed in advisory positions, and these experts would give priority to the
training of national staff, in line with government policies (para 2.08).
They would assist DNGR in all its activities, including rural engineering.
administration, accounting, finance, procurement and contract management.
The emphasis would be placed on the implementation of a program of periodic
visits of two to three weeks by visiting experts, on average every three
months. At the end of each visit, a three-month work program for each key
DNGR staff would be agreed with the Director General of DNGR and the resident
experts. This approach to technical assistance might, in the short-tenm,
result in relatively slow progress of DNGR's work; however, it would place
the burden of implementation responsibility entirely on national staff and
ensure the sustainability of investments in technical assistance.
3.07    The list of the key national staff with whom the expatriate staff
would work directly according to the above three-month rolling work programs
is given in Annex 8. The list of resident technical assistants and their
terms of reference are presented in Annex 9. The experts financed under the
proposed project would be the following:
(i) Resident ExDerts
3.08    The project would provide a total of 18 man-years of expatriate
technical assistance to DNGR's central and territorial services.   Two
resident experts would be recruited as technical advisors for DNGR's
headquarters in Conakry. The first expert would, for five years, assist the
Division Chief for Rural Roads and Constructions in all administrative and
technical aspects of the preparation of studies, the establishment of
contracts and work supervision concerning rural roads and constructions with
specific emphasis on operations connected to the project road investment
program. The second expert would be posted for three years at the DNGR's
cabinet to assist in the programming and execution of the project training
program (paras 3.17 - 3.20). Three other resident expatriate staff, posted
up-country, for a total of 10 man-years, would assist in the implementation



- 20 -
and subsequent operation of the regional BTGRs to be created under the
project.
(ii) Visiting Experts
3.09    Short-term consultancies would be required under the project to assist
DNGR in completing specialized punctual tasks (socio-economic surveys, soils
analysis, computing assistance, financial audits, environmental assessment,
etc.). Also, in view of the likely difficulty by IDA and other co-financiers
to supervise the project given its complexity, e special provision of a total
of five man-months of short-term consultancies (one annually) has been made
to specifically strengthen DNGR's capacity to contribute to supervision
missions. The short-term consultancy requirements have been estimated at a
total of 67 man-months.
3.10    Renovation  of  Offices  and  Facilities.    DNGR's  office  space
requirements are estimated at about 900 m2 for its central staff at
headquarters in Conakry who number about 165 persons.   These staff are
presently housed in Conakry downtown area, in a sub-standard building dating
back from the colonial era, whose total area is only about 300 m2. It has
therefore been decided that they would be relocated to a 2 ha site belonging
to MARA in Matoto, Conakry's burgeoning industrial area. Although this site
is somewhat far from MARA's headquarters located downtown about 20 km away,
it offers the advantage of being close to Conakry's exit and the main Conakry
- Hamou road axis. This location permits easy links with the interior and
would therefore greatly facilitate DNGR's required field work under the
project. Also, it is much closer than the downtown area from the Sonfonia
training center where the bulk of the class training envisaged under the
project would be carried out. The several buildings of a total ground area
of abcut 300 m2, which already exist on the site, would be renovated under
the project.   DNGR's regional offices (300 m2), workshops (600 m2), and
prefectural buildings (1,600 m2) would also be renovated.
3.11    Provision of Equipment. Miscellaneous office and technical equipment,
office furniture and vehicles for DNGR's headquarters and the BTGRs would be
provided under vhe project, including communications equipment to facilitate
communication both with HAM's headquarters downtown and operational sites
and administrative offices up-country. At prefectural level, one vehicle and
small basic equipment would be provided.
(b) Support to the Rural Water SupPlY Agency (SNAPE)
3.12    General. This component would provide support to SNAPE headquarters,
its existing decentralized services, and the new regional and sub-regional
offices to be established under the project. Support would include technical
assistance, staff training, renovation of buildings, provision of office
furniture and facilities, and provision of miscellaneous equipment.
3.13    Technical Assistance. Technical assistance would consist of resident
experts to supplement the assistance already available to SNAPE.  Inter-
nationally recruited experts would (i) assist SNAPE in strengthening its



- 21 -
extension and maintenance program in RWSS with a focus on community
management of water points and small piped systems, and on cost recovery;
(ii) improve the management and organization of the drilling work on force
account; and (iii) build up SNAPE's capacity to supervise boreholes
construction undertaken by contractors. A Community Development Specialist
and a Drilling Expert would be recruited for three and two years
respectively.   These experts would also provide on-the-job training to
national staff. Their terms of reference are given in Annex 9.
3.14    The  later phases  of the sensitization program under the RWSS
investment components and the follow-up activities after boreholes
construction would be the responsibility of specialized SNAPE staff. These
staff would be assisted for a total of 12 man-months by short-term
consultants specialized in community development. The consultants would make
periodic visits of four weeks, at intervals of two to three months during
the first two years, and c,f about six months during the remaining project
period. During their visits, they would train national staff, monitor their
work and assist them in establishing their work programs. At the end of each
consultant's visit, the work programs would be revised and agreed with the
Director General of SNAPE.
3.15    Renovation of Offices and Facilities.  SNAPE's headquarters staff
under its new organic structure is estimated at 60, requiring approximately
300 m2 of office space. SNAPE's staff, like DNGR's, are presently located
in  sub-standard  premises  in  Conakry  downtown  area  close  to  NARA's
headquarters.  These premises would be renovated under the project.  Up-
country, a uew SNAPE sub-regional office would be created in Kissidougou to
serve laitially as a project office and as a temporary regional office
pending the establishment of a regional office in N'zer4korO. Then, it would
become a sub-regional office because of the remote position of N'szrekore.
At the same time, a SNAPE regional office would be established in N'zdrdkor6
which is the regional capital.  Provisions for the renovation/construction
of 200 m2 have been made for SNAPE's up-country offides.
3.16    Provision of Eauilment.  Miscellaneous equipment, including office
equipment and furniture, would be provided under the project to SNAPE's
headquarters, the regional office in Labd, and the sub-regional and regional
offices in Guinee Forestiere.
(c) Staff Trainjng
3.17    A major thrust of the project would be to provide the training
facilities required to support the strengthening of the Administration and
the development of the small and medium scale contractors (SMCs). In this
regard, in addition to the training received through the visiting expert
program and the on-the-job training and coaching provided by the resident
experts, specific training activities would be carried out. The target group
for this training would be (a) the Administration's staff, i.e., not only
DNGR's staff, but also the staff of the other technical ministries concerned,
in particular MTTP; and (b) private sector contractors, including the staff
of SMCs and the two Pilot Public Works Companies (SPTPs) to be created under



- 22 -
i
l
the project (para 3.28), and the employees of local cemmity organizations
("collectivit4s locales').   The training activities would be undertaken
through a variety of a sans, including in-house training, local seminars, and
external training sessions. The training arrangements envisaged are given
in Annex 10. At negotiations. the training program for PY1, prepared by
consultants under the third PPF advance, was agreed with the Government.
Agreement was also obtained that by September 30 of every calendar year, DNGR
and SNAPE would submit an action plan for staff training as part of the
annual work program for the following year (para 3.73).
3.18    One special feature of training activities carried out under the
project would be the establishment of a Mobile School Unit (UME) in Mamou.
It would be equipped as a medium scale contractor, i.e., it would have the
same equipment as the SPTPs and would perform a similar type of work (para
4.04). However, its work methods would be such as to enable appropriate
staff training with the support of specialized expatriate technical
assistance.  In this regard, two expatriate technical assistants would be
recruited and posted at the UME: a training engineer for three years, and
a training mechanic for five years.
3.19    The project would sub-contract its training activities to training
centers in the country, the bulk of these activities to the Center for the
Study and Improvement of Agricultural Mechanization (CEPERMAG) of Sonfonia
(on the outskirts of Conakry).   This center would be strengthened in
buildings and housing and in public works equipment.   It would dispense
technical training in the classroom and would supplement the field training
given at the UME, with particular emphasis on subject matters concerning:
(i) preparation of technical reports and bids; (ii) verification of
quantities for payment; (iii) establishment of progress reports; and (iv)
collection of statistics and establishment of data bases on the national
rural highway network. An internationally recruited expert, posted for three
years at DNGR's cabinet as training coordinator, would assist in the design
and implementation of the project training program.
3.20    Under the RUSS component,  SNAPE staff would receive on-the-job
training specifically as they participate in: (i) the preparation and
superv3sion of the RWSS investment programs in the Kissidougou and Gu4ckddou
prefectures; (ii) the nationwide study on Willingness To Pay (WTP) for water;
(iii) the strengthening of SNAPE's extension and maintenance program; and
(iv) the preparation of the RUSS program for Guinee Forestibre.
2. Investment and Maintenance Proaram
(a) Feeder Roads
3.21    The total feeder roads rehabilitation program would cover about 2,600
km of road links which were selected at the appraisal stage. Road selection
was carried out on the basis of a multi-criteria analysis applied to about
4,500 km of roads previously identified at the preparation stage in the 16
prefectures covered by the project. The implementation program is described
in pars 4.08.   The technical specifications and the estimated scope of



_ 23 -
rehabilitation, together with the implementation schedule, are presented in
Annex 11.
3.22    The roads would be brought up to minimum standards based on projected
traffic volumes and topography, and existing alignment would be retained to
the extent possible. As part of the road work, bridges and culverts would
be constructed or rehabilitated to make roads passable at all '.es. In all
cases, special attention would be given to drainage which is responsible for
the bulk of disorders in Guinea where terrain is often hilly and rainfall
occurs in violent storms.   Safety would also be on the priority list as
Guinean drivers have lost familiarity with good roads allowing high speed,
and their vehicles are for the most part dilapidated. In the cost of road
rehabilitation, provision has therefore been made for basic road signalling
devices that would help prevent accidents.
3.23    Below are the general characteristics of the four specified categories
of road standards:
(i) Standard A.    This  standard,  adopted  for  roads  connecting
prefectures to sub-prefectures, would permit traffic at an average
speed of 40 km/h. The roadway would be 4.5 m wide and graveled,
with a 1 m shoulder on each side, resulting in total road width
of
6.5 m;
(ii) Standard Ba.   This  standard is for  roads connecting sub-
prefectures to villages, villages to other villages, and villages
to the national or regional network. Its technical standards are
the same as Standard A, but with a 3.5 m wide roadway and a 0.5
m shoulder on each side (i.e., 4.5 m of total road width);
(iii) Standard Bf. Same as Standard Ba. However, because the present
traffic is too low to justify total improvement, the road surface
would not be upgraded.   In the future, these roads would be
improved to bring them to Standard Ba; and
(iv) Standard C. Exclusively adopted for 'cul-de-sac' links between
villages and production areas. Standard C roads would only be
used by animal-driven carts or by the occasional bush pick-up.
These roads have a 3 m non-graveled surface which would not be
improved under the  project.    They would  get just  enough
maintenance to stay passable.
3.24    Four different types of maintenance work have been identified based
on existing road conditions:
(i) Tyne I - Rehabilitation. This work consists of re-opening a road
to traffic.   Also included is the rehabilitation of bridges,
culverts and other drainage facilities, if needed. This work is
similar to new construction except that it follows the
existing profile and the alignment of the natural terrain as



- 24 -
closely as possible, to minimize the need for additional
earthwork;
(ii) Type II - Periodic Maintenance.   This type of work starts
immediately following road rehabilitation and is performed twice
yearly thereafter.  It consists of one pass of motorgrader to
resurface the roadway. The first year of maintenance would be the
responsibility of the contractor in charge of rehabilitation.
Approximately every five or six years, depending on traffic, new
graveling is necessary. This would not be covered by the proposed
project;
(iii) Type III - Routine Maintenance.   This consists of permanent
maintenance, including the pruning of trees and clearing of
vegetation to allow the sun to reach the roadway, maintenance of
the drainage system (water-outlets cleaning, energy dissipators
rehabilitation), the cutting of grass on shoulders and in ditches,
and the reporting of problem areas to the responsible authorities
for immediate action; and
(iv) Type IV - Emeriency Snot Maintenance.   Based on information
received from the field, damages to the roadway (due to
landslides. potholes, erosion of graveled surfaces, etc.), to the
drainage system and to bridges and culverts, should be repaired
through quick emergency action. This is necessary to avoid in-
depth structural damages to the road and sometimes to re-open the
road to traffic.
3.25    The total project rehabilitation program of approximately 2,600 km in
total (including the roads rehabilitated under the Pilot Feeder Roads
Program, para 3.38) would be the following, per standard (details, including
the breakdown per year, are in Annex 11): (a) Standard At about 697 km; (b)
Standard Bat about 1,067 km; (c) Standard Bfs about 586 km; and (d) Standard
C: about 250 km.    The project maintenance  program, per category of
maintenance work, is shown in Annex 11.
3.26    The rehabilitation of Category AIB roads would be contracted out to
private entrepreneurs (large in size and foreign assisted), except for (a)
about 161 km in the Coyah and JUubreka prefectures set aside for SMCs under
the Pilot Feeder Roads Propram (para 3.38): (b) the 225 km under the
community initiatives support program (para 4.08) that would be executed
partly by the two SPTPs set up under the project (para 3.28) and partly by
SMCs; and (c) 20 km under the Pilot Feeder Roads Program that would be
carried out by using labor intensive methods. Work locations of similar
characteristics have been regrouped based on preparation studies to make
contracts sufficiently attractive to bidders. The rehabilitation of Category
C roads would be performed by local foremen ("tacherons") with major labor
input from village communities.



- 25 -
3.27    Periodic  maintenance would be executed mainly under multi-year,
concession-type contracts awarded to local SMCs for certain zones in each
region. Part of it would also be executed urnder labor-based meth.ods with the
assistance of local communities. Emergency maintenance would be entrusted
to the SPTPs andlor contracted out to existing local private entrepreneurs.
Routine maintenance would be performed entirely by labor intensive methods
under Otacheronnagel and *cantonnage' systems to be experimented as part of
the Pilot Feeder Roads Program. Under these systems, the petty contractors
(Otfcheronsw), communities and NGOs would engage Olengthmen' responsible for
the maintenance of certain sections of road or specific tasks, depending upon
the type of work to be undertaken. In order to attract labor, and, at the
same time, avoid a negative impact on agricultural and other productive
activities, each lengtbman would generally be given tasks which would require
only part time work on the road (say about 12 days of work per month),
leaving sufficient time for other activities. On average, it is estimAted
that routine maintenance will require one laborer for each 1.5-2.0 km of
road. The petty contractors, communities or NGOs would be paid at an agreed
rate on a monthly basis for works correctly and timely carried out; they
would also receive food rations from the World Foo4 Program (WPP).
3.28    As part of the feeder roads component, two private Pilot Public Works
Companies (SPTPs) would be created to provide the operational capacity
required to undertake the emergency road maintenance in areas where such
capacity (either public or private) does not exist. These SPTPs would be
based in N'zerekore to cover the prefectures of N'z4r4kor4, Beyla, Macenta,
Lola and KRrouane, and in Gaoual to cover the prefectures of Gaoual,
Koundara, and Telimele. They would be equipped partly with heavy equipment
presently belonging to MARA, as the inventory conducted under the third PPF
advance has determined that some equipment was available and could therefore
be allocated to the SPTPs after rehabilitation. The remainder of the heavy
equipment would be provided on a rente' basis by the renting company to be
set up by the Government (para 3.41) (see list of equipment required and
breakdown between rehabilitated, purchased (new) and rented equipment in
Annex 11). The SPTPs would be established as private enterprises, but would
have to follow a pre-determined work plan ("contrat plan"' spelling out their
obligations vis-&-vis DNGR (para 4.05).   In order to proceed with the
required reallocation of equipment to the SPTPs, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government will prepare a plan of use of MARA's public
works equipment based on the inventory undertaken as part of the third PPF
advance.
(b) Bottomlands
3.29    DNGR would be responsible for bottomland drainage and infrastructure
development under the project's bottomlands component.   Since bottomland
development requires the support of the extension and research services to
assist farmers in the bottomlands, a Coordinating Committee would be
established for coordinating the implementation of this component.   The
Committee would comprise the Directors of Rural Engineering, Extension
Services, and Agronomic Research. It would oversee the planning, budgeting



- 26 -
and implementation of the bottomland development program of the project and
would provide direction aLd guidance to the regions in the preparation of
their medium- and long-ter. plans for the development of their bottoulands.
The Committee would further review these plans and would assitt the
Government in development planning for the exploitation of these bottomdands
at the national level.  Ihe Committee would meet at least twice a year and
would be responsible for approving work programs and budgets related to this
component.  It would also review project reports and studies relating to
these  activities.    Assurances  were  obtained  from  the  Government  at
negotiations about the establishment and functioning of the Coordinating
co-mittee.
3.30    A Multi-Disciplinary Team would be established in each region at BTOR
level which would be responsible for the planning and studying necessary for
developing the programs to be implemented under the project. Each team would
consist of the region's rural engineer, the agronomist, and a sociologist and
a soil scientist where possible.   Each team would identify bottomlands
presently in use by farmers, examine the sites, determine the farming
systems, discuss their utilization with the farmers in order to establish
their needs, assess the land tenure status, and make recommendations for
improving productivity. These recommendations would be first based on the
implementation of simple technological changes which the farmer could readily
adopt without any major disruption of his farming goals.
3.31    The proposed project's program and levels of bottomland development
(Types I - TV) are presented in Annex 12. Each team would propose a detailed
annual program for itb region, which, when approved by the Coordinating
Committee and IDA, would be implemented by the relevant BTGR and the
Extension Services. In addition to monitoring the implementation of these
programs, each team, with the help of a national inventory of bottomlands to
be carried out by consultants, and based on criteria set out by the
Coordinating Committee, would develop a medium- to long-term plan for
bottomland development in the region. The four regional plans would form the
basis for a national bottomland development program. These task are expected
to be completed by PY5, although the team could be disbanded earlier should
its work be completed before the fifth year (e.g., for lack of available
bottomlands).   Assurances were obtained cat negotiations that DNGR will
establish Multi-Discinlinary Teams under the above conditions.
3.32    The Multi-Disciplinary Teams would determine priorities and types
based on their assessment of the farming systems and the role of the
bottomland in such systems, farmers' own needs, availability of labor, ease
with which groups can be formed for carrying out the necessary works,
physical characteristics of the bottomland, need for and availability of
suitable inputs, farmers' ability to purchase required inputs, and marketing
prospects for the proposed crops.   Water management structures  (where
necessary) would be designed by the Hydro-Agricultural Division of DNGR.
Earthworks would be carried out manually by the farmers themselves. However,
construction of heavier structures such as small reservoirs for Type IV,
would be contracted out to the SPTPs or to small contractors where
practicable.   The varietal and agronomic recommendations would be the



- 27 -
responsibility of the Extension Services. However, the Agronomic Research
Department vould embark on a program of research specific to the needs of the
bottomland development program. Each Multi-Disciplinary Team would monitor
emperience in implementation, which would be reflected in the annual work
programs for the following years.
(c) Rural Water SUDDlY and Sanitation (RUSS)
3.33    The RUSS investment program would consist of two partss the drilling
of 220 productive boreholes and the construction of two village piped water
systems.   The first part would serve, by means of individual boreholes
equipped with handpumps, about 140 villages .in the prefectures of Kissidougou
and Gueckedou, having a total forecasted population of about 65,000 by the
year 1995. These prefectures were selected because (i) they are located in
Guinee Forestiere which has lagged behind in RWSS development compared with
other regions; and (ii) they have not benefited todate of any RWSS programs,
whereas such programs are needed to complement the development activities
underway as part of the DERIK and PAG projects covering these prefectures.
The investment program would comprise the drilling of the boreholes at an
average depth of 50 m, the building of superstructures, the supply and
installation of handpumps for boreholes, the setting up of a network of shops
for spare parts, and the training for handpump caretakers, including
provision of maintenance services, training manuals, and repair tool kits.
The project would make provision for the consulting services required to
determine borehole sites and supervise construction works (including drilling
and testing boreholes, building superstructures, and installing and testing
pumps), and for the sensitization of the target population on the maintenance
of the water points and on the linkage of water and sanitation with health.
3.34    The second part, consisting of the construction of two small piped
water systems would serve the villages of Yend4-Millimou in the prefecture
of Kissidougou, and Nongoa in the prefecture of Gueckddou whose populations
would be about 3,000 and 4,500 respectively by 1995.  These villages were
selected because they are markets of regional importance and are
representative of the socio-ethnic fabric and physical environment prevailing
in the two prefectures where they are located. Also, their accessibility
would greatly facilitate carrying out the monitoring and evaluation
activities required to assess the impact of the program from the SNAPE's sub-
regional office in Kissidougou.   The sevan boreholes necessary would be
drilled as part of the productive boreholes program. The two systems would
include small distribution networks equipped with water tanks, public
standpipes, and solar or other suitable pumps.   The project would make
provision for the consulting services required for the preparation of
detailed designs, tender documents and assistance to SNAPE in (i) bid
evaluation and contract preparation; (ii) development and application of
community management; (iii) construction supervision; and (iv) sensitization
of the population in the two villages on the benefits of water and sanitation
for health.



- 28 -
3. Studies and Pilot Proarams
(a) Feeder Roads Master Plan
3.35    As part of project preparation (second PPF advance of US$300,000, para
3.55) government consultants have prepared a Master Plan for the
rehabilitation of feeaer roads.  Under this Master Plan, about 14,500 km of
roads over the entire territory of Guinea were identified and surveyed,
providing an estimate of rehabilitation costs and of the benefits that would
accrue if these roads were rehabilitated. Subsequently, the road links were
classified on the basis of a multi-criteria analysis whereby the cost of
rehabilitation was weighted against the benefits.   The methodology used
involved a multi-stage decision sequence with classification at prefecture
level prior to integration  at regional  and national  level.    Such a
methodology has proved useful in that it has permitted to establish first an
interface with local authorities and beneficiaries, prior to moving to a
higher decision-making level. The Master Plan has served to calibrate the
projects road investment program prepared concomitantly and in close liaison
with  other government consultants.   Under the  Plan,  a  comprehensive
computerized data base is now available. As part of the work program for the
third PPF advance, this data base has been further processed to make it more
user-friendly, using a package compatible with a personal computer; also,
Guinean nationals have been trained to use it. The Master P'an would be the
principal planning instrument made available to DNGR under the project. With
the assistance of short-term consultants, it would be further developed and
thereafter continuously updated, as additional data becomes available and
further experience and knowledge are gained as a result of project
implementation.
(b) Pilot Feeder Roads Program
3.36    Obiectives. The long-term objective of the Pilot Feeder Roads Program
is to test labor-based methods for road rehabilitation and maintenance
relying, to the maximum extent consistent with cost-efficiency, on local
resources using domestic contractors, NGOs and communities for implementation
in order to promote sustainable feeder roads development.   The pilot
program's immediate objectives would be to:  (i) create a capacity within
DNGR and a number of domestic private contracting firms to effectively apply
low cost methods of feeder roads rehabilitation and maintenance, using
locally available resources; and (ii) develop a capacity at the commity
level and with NGOs to plan and implement rehabilitation and maintenance of
feeder roads.
3.37    Summarv Description.  To achieve the above objectives, the program
would include the following actions: (i) assistance to domestic contractors
for the rehabilitation, using mainly labor-based methods, of about 161 km of
Category A/B roads in the prefectures of Coyah and Dubreka; (ii) experimental
rehabilitation of 20 km of Category C roads and 20 km of Category A/B roads;
(iii) minor repair and subsequent maintenance on a pilot basis of about 207
km of existing feeder roads (Category A/B) in the prefectures of Dabola and



- 29 -
Tdlim6ld; and (iv) technical assistance to support DNGR in implementing the
proposed programs and to train goverument staff, domestic contractors,
coununities and NGOs in the implementation of labor-based feeder roads
rehabilitatic,n and maintenance.
3.38    Rehabilitation of Casegory AIB Roads. It is envisaged under the pilot
program to provide support to SMCs for the rehabilitation, over PY1 to PY4,
of about 161 km of roads in the prefectures of Coyah and Dubreka. The roads
would be upgraded to standards A, Ba and Bf, as described in Annex 11.
Standards A and Ba roads would be provided with a lateritic surface layer.
Average hauling distances would generally not exceed 2 km.  The works would
be carried out using mostly labor-based methods supported by  ight equipment
such as pedestrian rollers for compaction and tractor-trailer combinations
for transport of selected materials.
3.39    Present official labor wages in the modern construction sector (GF
47,000/month or about US$80/month for unskilled labor), recently agreed
between the labor unions and the contracting industry, represent a doubling
of the wages which had been valid for several years. Wages in the informal
sectors (including agriculture), however, are substantially lower. On these
premises, and with the expected substantive local inflation (para 3.53), it
must be expected that the level of local wages would enhance the
competitiveness of domestic contractors using labor-based methods vis-&-vis
international contractors using capital-intensive methods.   In addition,
equipment-based methods are only cost-effective when equipment is actually
used intensively, which would not be the case for the scattered and seasonal
works undertaken as part of the proposed program.   Unskilled labor is
available in the project area.
3.40    SMCs would be engaged to carry out improvement work on the 161 km of
roads mentioned above. At least five well established domestic contractors
have expressed a strong desire to enter the civil engineering market, &n area
in which they have little experience to date.   In contrast,  they have
substantial experience in building construction.  In the present context,
these SMCs cannot compete with international contractors for large feeder
roads contracts because conditions are such that only firms with a large
holding of heavy equipment can compete, and equipment for rent is not
available on a regular basis.   Furthermore, foreign contractors engage
domestic firms as sub-contractors only to a limited extent.
3.41    For these reasons, to develop domestic SMCs, it is necessary initially
to train them and subsequently provide them with contract opportunities
within their technical and financial capability. For domestic contractors,
the main conatraint would be capital outlays for equipment acquisition with
the associated risk that future contracts may not suffice to amortize and
renew the equipment fleet.   Therefore, the strategy for developing the
domestic contracting industry would be based on (i) using labor-based
construction methods--this will over time lead to lower construction costs
and foreign exchange costs, and better employment opportunities; (ii)
encourag'.ng large contractors to sub-contract to SMCs; and (iii) relying on
the serices of a renting company to be created by the Government.  It was



_ 30 -
agreed at negotiaticns that establishment of such a company on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA will be a condition of disbursement against road
I          maintenance expenditures.
3.42    It is unlikely that the domestic contractors would have enough
suitable equipment for carrying out the works. Therefore, the project would
initially procure most of the essential equipment required. After the first
year of training, contractors would be given the opportunity to acquire the
equipment throu h the renting company to be established. Arrangements should
oe made whereby DNGR would deduct, from the contractors' monthly statements,
equipment amortization and interest charges which would be paid directly to
the renting company.
3.43    Rehab'litation of Cateacro   C Roads.  Experimental rehabilitation on
20 km of Category C roads using labor-based methods would be carried out
under  the  proposed  pilot  program.    The  results  would  be  used  in
rehabilitating about 230 km of Category C roads envisaged under the project
(para 4.08), to permit vehicular traffic between villages and agricultural
areas (mostly bottomlands). The rehabilitation works would be contracted out
to petty contractors ('tAcherons'), NGOs or village communities.  Of the
total cost (including labor costs), about 15Z would be borne by the
communities benefitirg from road rehabilitation. Subsequent road maintenance
would be carried out by the communities.
3.44   Maintenance of Feeder Roads.  Under the pilot program, permanent
maintenance methods would be demonstrated, and government staff, contractors,
NGOs and communities would be trained in implementing maintenance works. Two
feeder roads rehabilitated under earlier projects in the prefectures of
Dabola (72 km) and Telimele (135 ki) would be used as demonstration and
training grounds for the introduction of permanent maintenance methods and
procedures.   The two feeder roads are 1resently in need of limited spot
rehabilitation (over about 20 km) which would be carried out prior to
permanent maintenance.
3.45    Technical Assistance and Training.  Technical assistance would be
provided to (i) assist DNGR in implementing rehabilitation and maintenance
works and in setting up contracting procedures to carry out these works; and
(ii) train DNGR staff, domestic contractors, communities and NGOs. In total,
it is envisaged that the project would provide 63 man-months of expatriate
technical assistance.  This assistance, posted at DNGR's Rural Roads and
Constructions division, would be recruited (i) partly internationally: a
Chief Technical Advisor for 39 months, a Training Advisor for 15 months, a
Tools Specialist for one month, and a Civil Engineer for ten months; and (ii)
partly locally: a Road Construction Engineer and a Road Maintenance Engineer
each for 51 months. This technical assistance would be provided through the
International Labor Organization (ILO) acting as executing agency for the
pilot program.
3.46    Implementation.  For the pilot road rehabilitation program in the
prefectures of Coyah and Dubreka, four to five domestic contractors would
initially be selected for training during the first construction season



- 31 -
(October  1990  -  June  1991).    The  contractors  would make  available
technicians, foremen and some skilled workers to be trained partly in the
classroom, but mainly on site with the UME and as part of the work program
for the first year. This program would consist of constructing about 15 km
of feeder roads which sbould include all main work activities which may be
encountered in the subsequent years. Of the trained contractors, three would
be awarded contracts for the second construction season, using unit rates
established in line with experience gained during the first year.  In the
third construction season, domestic contractors would be awarded contracts
based on competitive oidding.  Experimental rehabilitation over 10 km of
Category C roads would be initiated in early 1990 by a NGO (the Association
de Developpement de Poredaka - ADP) that has been identified in the
prefecture of Mamou, with project and NtGOcommunity financing.  The feeder
roads maintenance program would start in PY1 over approximately 80 km equally
distributed becween the two prefectures concerned (Dabola and N liLMl6) with
the aim of covering the entire two stretches (207 km in total) as of PY2.
(c) Pilot NW -SuDported Bottomland Development Program
3.47    The national NGO movement in Guinea is recent and few local NGOs have
been involved independently in projects of any magnitude. However, several
international NGOs are already active in rural development operations and
would be interested in providing support to pilot operations carried out
under the project, if they were allowed to preserve their own individual
approach.   One area in which they are already involved is bottomland
development.
3.48    The need to organize and coordinate farmer activities for optimal
bottomland utilization is imperative, and, for the most part, Guinea has
little experience  in  this area.   Some recent interventions  by NG0s,
particularly in Guin4e Maritime, indicate that these organizations are well
placed to assist farmers in this respect. Already, by working directly with
groups of farmers, they have gained their confidence, and it appears that the
superior organizational and administrative skills that they bring to their
projects (albeit on a very small scale) are more readily accepted by farmers
because of the personal attention that they receive from NGOs. However, it
is recognized that the full exploitation of bottomlands requires a wide range
of considerations (technical and socio-economic), and that neither MAM nor
the NG0s have sufficient experience to cover the gamut of requirements of
this component. Also, there is as yet no formula for the intervention of
NG0s in this field which would guarantee success of any such development
program. There is a need, thcrefore, to determine what expertise can be best
provided by the NGO when it intervenes, and its relationship to government
agencies operating in the same field.
3.49    The Government, mindful of the complexity of the task of introducing
the proposed new and higher technical standards combined with the organizing
of farmers to manage their own affairs on a group basis, wishes to encourage
NGOs to provide assistance in realizing these objectives.   However, such
assistance should complement the activities of its designated agencies and
should be well structured.  NGOs generally contribute human and material



- 32 -
resources of a limited nature, and these could supplement the institutional
arrangements that HARA is already making (via the proposed project and the
National Research and Extension Project), for fulfilling its role as the
principal engine of development.
3.50    In order to test NGO participatior., a sum of US$600,000 has been
allocated under the project to finance a pilot NGO bottomland development
program under the direction of DNGR. This experiment would help determine
a model for NGO intervention. The NGO to be selected, which should already
be active in this field, would be requested to prepare and discuss with MARA
a work program specifying quantified outputs and a schedule of payments to
be made by MARA.   These payments would be free of usual contractual/
administrative checking and only tied to the respective work programs.
Further, there would be an ongoing monitoring of its actions in order that
the most effective levels of intervention by NGOs of similar competence could
be determined as quickly as possible. Details of this pilot program would
be prepared in PY1 by the Government, with the assistance of AFVP, a NGO
which is already doing work on bottomlands for DNGR (para 2.36). This would
be the basis for an implementation agreement between DNGR and the NG0 to be
selected, for which IDA's prior approval would be necessary (para 3.61).
(d) RWSS Studies and Pilot ProRrams
3.51    These stu4.es and pilot programs includes
(i) Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program for Guinee Forestiere.
A RWSS master plan for the prefectures of Kissidougou and
Gu6ckedou was prepared under the first PPF advance.  Under the
project, this Master Plan would be extended to the whole of Guin4e
Forestiere and would include  sanitation.    The  study would
establish a master plan and program that will serve as a basis for
the preparation and implementation of R'SS investment projects.
The program would include detailed proposals for three projects:
handpump-equipped boreholes, springs and handpump-equipped wells,
and detailed studies for small water supply systems, with
sanitation components, for the large or densely populated
villages.   The study would also include the feasibility of
promoting small and medium scale private contractors in the RWSS
sub-sector (para 2.44);
(ii) Nationwide Study on WillinQness To Pay for Water. The assessment
of the willingness to pay for water, undertaken in the framework
of the third PPF in certain villages within the project area of
the RWSS investment component, will be pursued and extended on a
national basis. The purpose of the nationwide study would be to
provide information for the definition of a national policy with
regard to the financial participation of the beneficiaries in the
purchase of handpumps. The study would be made in selected



- 33 -
villages in each of the four natural regions,  including the
project area of the RWSS investment program;
(iii) Strentthening of SNAPE's RWSS Extension and Maintenance Program.
The objective of this study is to establish, implement and follow-
up a sensitization and maintenance program. A community-based
management system would be established. The participation of the
population in the maintenance of water points and systems would
be secured and SNAPE's extension program would be reinforced. The
study would include the development, testing and application of
sensitization and training materials, guidelines, and procedures
to be used all over the country; and
(iv) Pilot Sanitation ProAram.  The program wculd be prepared and
implemented to develop, test and apply methodologies for low-cost
sanitation and solid waste disposal in large or densely populated
villages. The testing and application would be carried out in the
villages of Yende-Millimou and Nongoa.
D. Pro4ect Cost and Financing
1. Cost Estimates
3.52    The total cost of the proposed project over the 1990-94 period,
including all incremental capital and operating expenditures, is estimated
at GF 54.6 billion (US$88.8 million), of which GF 38.8 billion (US$63.2
million)  or 712 in foreign exchange and about GF 4.0 billion  (US$6.3
million) or 7S in taxes and duties.
3.53    Base costs have been estimated at June 1989 prices using the
prevailing rate of exchange of GF 590 to the U.S. dollar prevailing at that
date. These costs have been readjusted using the rate of exchange of GF 615
to the dollar prevailing at negotiations in November 1989. Physical
contingencies of varying amounts have been allowed on investment and
operating cost items, except for vehicles, equipment, lorg-term technical
assistance, PPF-financed activities,  and staff salaries.   The average
physical contingency amounts to 7.6Z of base costs, with individual rates
ranging from O to 102. Price contingencies have been applied to base costs
over an estimated implementation period of five years (1990-94).   Price
contingencies on foreign exchange costs based on the Bank's projections of
international price increases have been included at an average of 7.22 for
1990 and 1991, and 4.4Z from 1992 to 1994. Price contingencies on local
costs are based on annual price increases of 20Z for 1990, 16Z for 1991,
11.5? for 1992, 7.22 for 1993, and 5.12 for 1994, to reflect current
inflation trends in Guinea. Total price contingencies amount to 232 of base
costs.



- 34 -
3.54      Project costs are summarized below and details are given in Annex 13.
l..act Cast Summry
A.     .         i
1. iON SUPOIrT          1,890.9  4.624.4  0.05.     2.4    7.6      9.6        7.9       14.4
2. S8APE SWPORT          221.8  714.4    91.7        0.4    1.2      1.A        76.       2.2
8. TRADN.              1AL   4-32.7  524-4         _1       .4 9    .-l.1 8.1S- 1 -
Sub-TOal                2,674.0  9,901.5  12,675.4   4.5   16.0    20.4         78.7     80.1
13.    TN  A 
1.  iDE RUNS            6o099.8 15,88.8  21.68.1    10.2   28.0    88.2         71.8     51.6
2. 93W   S               807.0  69".6  1,362.6       0.7    1.6      2.2        70.9      8.8
a. vAM AATOt SUlPPLT.    M.1 180-4  2         '185   --0.0                      78.1     -u
Sub-Total                  7,004.9 18,831.8  25,368.2   11.7   29.8    41.2        72.4      60.6
C. sTIDIOS a PILOt iWEm
1 SU16                  14.0  1.258.7  1.890.7      0.2    2.0      2.8        90.4      8.8
2: PILOT ACIsl           4 s..L2L01     .M8  2..e    -Ai                       JPAZ      ..J,
Sub-Totel                   617.9  a,274.8  8,8s2.2     1.0    5.8      8.8        84.1      9.8
IMTAL bASELDNE COMZS      10,2W.7 81,807.1  41.800.8    17.3   80.7    18.0        74.6     100.0
Phy scal Continncies    044.8 2,826.6  8,170.7   1.4    8.8      8.2        78.4      7.6
Pr ic Catlngaa.      4,617.7 .L020J  9iJ28Z7     _._     .Z7    Il7.        .mJ       .1.
TOTAL FROJ62TS CSTSr      15,7^8.7 88,s44.8  54,608.2   28.6   48.2    68.6        71.1     110.6
(Including taxes)                 ..            _-                   _               _ ._
3.55      Prolect Prenaration Facility.  Two PPF advances of US$400,000 and
US$300,000 were awarded to the Government in August and November 1988,
respectively. The first PPF advance was used to finance project preparation
studies and the second one to finance preparation of the Rural Roads Master
Plan. A third PPF advance of US$750,000 was awarded in July 1980, inter
alia, to (a) prepare technical documents for the first five lots of rural
roads; (b) complete an inventory of heavy equipment belonging to MAMA and to
MTTP's Roads Project Office (OPR); (c) evaluate staff and set up the 1990
training program; (d) train 12 engineers abroad; (e) strengthen DNGR's
programming capability; (f) assess the willingness to pay for water in
certain villages within the area of the RWSS investment component; (g)
strengthen SNAPE's extension and maintenance program; and (h) complete the
legal texts required for the establishment of project structures.
2. Financing
3.56      Project costs would be borne by the co-financiers  in the following
amounts and proportionst



- 35 -
e;nane;aan Plan ila m - .ra_, Catm,
Z~~am              main  m to   D   huf.g nj ma*hu            'Ii) ns
2t,.la             rA             82                                . 2   0 2   0 
8   Sum lideng     0;         3;                                             ;&S]mm
Sub-toal      1.8  2.6   6.8  0.0    0.6      7.9   84.7  87.4  18.4  4.0
2. Sub2.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0                     0.0   2.2  2.0  0.2  0.0
S.                 8. 9.0  0.0  0.5S  0.0  0.4    8.S    S.1   4.4  0.r  0o.
4. i
a) R..id t iW ro   8i.0  0.0  0 0   0.0  0.0      0.0    8.9   4,1  1.5   0.0
i. Shor-tar.       LB  .4   L   -B 0.0                   4 .              0..
Sub-tol           9.2  1.4  0.0  0.0  0.0       0.0  10.6  0.2  2.4  0.0
S.~~~~~: 8' 'r-nin So:r 5.2  0.0  0.0  Q.    .   .3 .      .    .4  0.3
ti. st Farnen Co    .    .    .s ow      vsDa                        .    .
;   d  Fe_ ];; 0-O , ];         1                     1          ?;l42S_]
N. Pppanelea Raulraaata  40.0  27.0  6.6  0.5  1.0  18.8  65.   68.2  19.8  6.8
W{the;a li    77 2
3.57  The proposed IDA credit of US$40.0 million would finance about 482 of
total project costs (net of taxes), including US$7.3 million equivalent of local
costs. It would contribute the following proportions of project funding: (a)
1002 of vehicles; (b) most of the civil works for bottomlands, water supply and
buildings (842), goods and equipment (76Z), training courses (732), and technical
assistance (88Z), including the studies financed under the three PPF advances);
tc) a large fraction, on a declining basis, of incremental road maintenance (642)
and operating expenditures (542); and (d) a small part of feeder roads
expenditures (15?), including two road lots, assistance to SMCs (ILO contract,
para 3.61) and work supervision. A suimary account is given in Annex 13.
3.58   Other external financing by USAID, KfW and PAC would be under parallel
arrangements. USAID would contribute US$27.0 million (332 of project costs net
of taxes), KfW DM 13.0 million (US$6.8 million, 8? of project costs) and FAC the
equivalent of US$500,000 (0.62 of project costs).   For the feeder roads
investment program, out of 12 lots specified for the rehabilitation of A and B
roads, two would be financed by IDA at a cost of US$3.0 million, eight by USAID
at a cost of US$20.5 million, and two by KfW for US$6.3 million. USAID would
also finance all Category C roads 'US$1.3 million) and the A/B roads under the
pilot program to be executed by SMCs with the assistance of ILO in the
prefectures of Coyah and Dubr6ka (US$2.2 million).   In addition, it would
contribute US$1.6 million to the financing of the initiatives support program.
KfW would contribute DH 1.0 million (US$500,000) to the financing of equipment,
and USAID US$1.4 million for technical assistance, including a US$1.1 million
contract for aerial photography and related assistance.
3.59  Local funding would amount to the equivalent of US$14.5 million or 16? of
total project costs (10? of project costs net of taxes), including US$1.0 million
equivalent of participation by beneficiaries (para 4.15).  Government would
finance all taxes, a substantial portion on an increasing basis of road
maintenance and operating costs (36? and 46?), and about two-thirds of the roads
rehabilitated under the initiatives support program (US$3.8 million).
3. Procurement
3.60  The following arrangements have been established for goods and services
to be procured under the project (details are given in Annex 14).



- 36 -
Procurement Arrangements a/
Items          ICB       LCB        Other       Cof b/      Total
----------------- (US$ million) -------_____-_
1. Civil Works
a) Roads             6.1cl        _          1.5      38.5         46.1
(5.7)        -         (1.4)        -          (7.1)
b) Bottomlands        -          0.5         1.0       0.3          1.9
-        (0.4)       (0-9)        -          (1.3)
c) Water Supply      4.3 c/       -          0.4       0.1          4.8
(4.0)        -         (0.3)        -          (4.3)
d) Buildings         0.6 c/      0.9         0.4         -          1.9
(0.5) c/      8         0.3 _       -.6)
Subtotal         11.0         1.4        3.4       38.9         54.7
(10.2)      (1.2)       (2.9)        -         (14.3)
2. Vehicles             1.6         0.3         0.3         -           2.2
(1.6)      (0.3)       (0.3)        -          (2.2)
3.Goods and Ecuioment  2.4          0.8         0.7        1.2          5.1
(2.4)       0.8        (0.7)        -          (3.9)
4. Consultants
a) Resident           -           -          5.6         -          5.6
_          _         (5.6)        -          (5.6)
b) Short-term         -           -          3.6        1.4         5.0
(3.6)       -          (.6
Subtotal           -           -         (9.2)      1.4         10.6
!  -       -         (9.2)        -          (9.2)
;
5. Training Courses      -           -          2.5        0.5         3.0
_          -         (2.2)        -          (2.2)
6. Operating Costs       -           -          7.6 d/      -           7.6
(4.1)                  (4.1)
7. Road Maintenance      -           -          4.2         -          4.2
(2.7)                  (2.7)
8. PPF                  0.6          -          0.8         -          1.4
(0.6)        -         (0.8)        -          (1.4)
Total               15.6         2.5        28.7      42.0         88.8
(14.8)      (2.3)      (22.9)        -         (40.0)
a/ Amounts in parentheses indicate IDA financing.
b/ Parallel financing by other donors would be under their own procedures.
cl IncludIng work supervision.
d/ Including staff allowances for US$200,000 financed by Government.



- 37 -
3.61 Civil Vorks. The contracts for the two road lots (US$3.2 million) and for
work supervision (US$2.9 million) would be procured on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Assistance to small and medium contractors and labor-
based road works under the Pilot Feeder Roads Program (US$1.5 million) would be
contracted out to IL0 (para 3.45). Services for bottomland development for an
amount of US$500.000 would be procured under LCB. Small civil works for
bottomlands (for an aggregate value of US$500,000), which are scattered
geographically, would be awarded to local contractors through competitive
bidding. Assistance to DNGR for the pilot bottomlands component (US$600,000)
would be contracted out to a NGO with prior approval by IDA (para 3.50).
Concerning the RWSS component, the boreholes (US$2.8 million) would be procured
under ICB, except the first 20 promotional boreholes (US$300,000) that would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding between several qualified local or
foreign bidders already doing such work in Guinea. The two piped water supply
systems (US$500,000) would be procured under ICB, as well as the overall work
supervision contract (US$1.l million). Contracts for renovation of DNGR's and
SNAPE's headquarters buildings (US$600,000) would be procured under ICB, whereas
small civil works for renovation/construction of regional and prefectural offices
(US$1.3 million), which are scattered geographically, would be procured through
LCB and under contracts awarded on the basis of the comparison of price quotation
solicited from at least three suppliers.
3.62 Vehicules. Goods, and Eouilment. Contracts for goods exceeding US$150,000
would be procured through ICB. Such contracts would comprise mainly vehicles,
civil works   equipment,  training and office equipment,  and miscellaneous
construction materials (PVC tubes, cement, iron bars, etc.) Procurement would
be done through grouped bidding packages to allow for ICB.  Vhen bulking is not
feasible, contracts not exceeding US$150,000 but over US$50,000 would be awarded
on the basis of LCB, subject to an aggregate ceiling of US$1.1 million worth of
goods to be so procured over the entire project period. Contracts for goods
below US$50,000 would be procured through prudent local shopping procedures
involving presentation of at least three quotations; the aggregate value of goods
so procured would not exceed US$1.0 million.
3.63 Consultants and Training Courses. Technical assistance would be procured
following IDA guidelines for the recruitment of consultants, on the basis of the
establishment of a short-list of qualified bidders. In order to avoid dependence
on a single consulting firm, consulting services would be grouped in several lots
for which firms would be allowed to bid separately (Annex 14). Since training
activities would be very specialized and encompass a wide spectrum of expertise,
there would be a need to retain flexibility for individual hiring of experts with
given expertise. As a result, most short-term consultants in this category would
be hired directly based on work programs established yearly by the implementing
agencies. Contracts for such consultants would be procured in accordance with
IDA guidelines for the selection of consultants; the aggregate value would not
exceed US$1.0 million.   In all cases, contracts for short-term consultants
exceeding US$250,000 would be procured following the same procedure as for the
resident technical assistance. To the extent possible, procurement of short-
term consultants would be grouped to allow for this procedure.



- 38 -
3.64 Operatinu Costs. Operating costs for vehicles, travel and office expenses
would be financed by IDA following acceptable government procedures, on a
declining basis at the rates of 1001, 801, 601, 401 and 20?, in PYI, PY2, PYS,
PY4 and PY5 respectively.   IDA would also contribute to the financing on a
declining basis of the road maintenance costs at the rates of 10O, 75?, 551,
and 352 in PY2, PY3, PY4, and PY5. These latter costs would gradually be taken
up by the special line item in the National Budget earmarked for road maintenance
(para 2.25).
3.65 General Rules and Review. The LCB procedures to be followed would include
local advertising, public bid opening, establishment of clear evaluation
criteria, and award to the lowest evaluated bidder. Foreign bidders would not
be excluded.   The aggregate value for LCB and prudent shopping have been
specified in the Credit Agreement. All bidding packages for IDA-financed goods
estimated to cost more than US$150,000 equivalent would require prior approval
by IDA, as would the final award of the related contracts. Prior IDA approval
would also be required for the procurement of computer equipment and the
recruitment of all technical assistance, regardless of the related contract
amounts or the source of financing. The other contracts would be subject to
random review by IDA after contract award.
4.   Disbursements and Revolving Funds
3.66  Disbursements.   Disbursement of the IDA Credit of SDR 31.3 million,
equivalent to US$40.0 million, is shown over a 7-year period starting April 1,
1990 (Annex 15).   Project disbursements follow IDA's   standard profile for
Western Africa Region rural infrastructure projects, but start at a higher level
as they include US$1.4 million of PPF-financed activities. The proceeds of the
IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:



- 39 -
Disbursement of IDA Credit
USS Million    I of Expenditures
Category                    Eauivalent     To be Financed    a/
1.  Civil Works b/                   12.8             100 c/
2. Vehicles, Goods and
Equipment                         5.5             100
3.  Technical Assistance dt          10.2             100
4. Operating Costs                    3.7       Declining basis
5. Road Maintenance Costs             2.4       Declining basis
6.  PPF Refinancing                   1.4
7. Unallocated                        4.0
Total                          40.0
a/ Of amounts net of taxes.
bJ Including work supervision and assistance to private contractors.
c; Except borehole drilling (972) which includes procurement of pumps financed
at 652 only, given 352 financial participation by beneficiaries.
di Including trainin. courses.
3.67      Disbursements under Categories 1 to 3, for bidding packages over
US$150,000 equivalent and under Category 6 would be fully documented.
Disbursements for all other expenditures would be allowed on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The supporting documentation would be retained
by the Government and made available for ex-post inspection by IDA missions.
The yearly financial statements would be submitted to IDA before June 30, 1990
(para 3.70). Measures have been taken by the Government to provide, under
separate financing, the necessary technical assistance to design and set up
within DNGR and SNAPE the accounting systems required to efficiently maintain
the project accounts.
3.68      Revolving Funds.  Most foreign expenditures would be financed by IDA
and the co-financiers through direct payments (Procedure III of the Bank). This
would permit keeping the foreign exchange account for the project at a minimum.
However, some foreign exchange held in Conakry would be necessary for the
financing of certain items and materials purchased directly by the project and
for payment of certain expenditures in particular related to fellowships and
short-term consultancies. To provide flexibility to finance these items, the
special account in foreign exchange, opened at a local commercial bank under the
PPF advance would be maintained, with a ceiling increased to an equivalent of
US$200,000 immediately after Credit effectiveness. The special account would
be managed by the Project Manager (the National Director of Rural Engineering).
IDA would replenish this account on receipt of satisfactory evidence of
disbursements for allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from



- 40 -
the corresponding amount into the account. Disbursements against this account
would be monitored through documented withdrawal requests which would be
accompanied by monthly statements giving details of all withdrawals and deposits,
as well as the opening and closing balances.
3.69 To ensure efficient and timely project implementation, the Government would
open two local currency project accounts, one each for DNGR and SNAPE at a local
bank. Requirements in local currency to be met by the Government would be
established yearly and would form the basis upon which the local currency
accounts would be replenished. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the Government's share of funding will be deposited in the project accounts
quarterly and in advance, on the basis of disbursement forecasts for the next
three months. It was agreed at negotiations that the opening of the project
accounts and the initial deposit by the Government of GF 200 million and GF 50
million for DNGR and SNAPE respectively, equivalent to about half of its
financial contribution for PYI (Annex 13), would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. At the regional level, DNOR would maintain four regional imprest
accounts, one in each region, and SNAPE would maintain one in Guinee Forestiere.
These accounts would be replenished quarterly with funds from the project
accounts upon presentation by the regional managers of satisfactory evidence of
actual disbursements. The regional offices' annual budgets, established as part
of the overall budgetary process for the project, would serve as a basis for
funds allocation.
5. Accounts. Audits and Reporting
3.70 DNGR and SNAPE are currently ill-equipped to undertake the complex tasks
of designing and setting up reliable financial management systems, maintaining
efficient accounting records, and preparing the project periodic reports and
disbursement requests. Therefore, because of the shortage of local competence
in the field of finance and accounting, measures have already been taken to
secure, under separate financing by USAID, consultancy services from an
internationally qualified firm to (a) design and implement a computerized cost
accounting and budgetary system within DNGR and SNAPE; (b) train local staff in
the use of this system; and (c) recruit internationally, for at least a two-year
period, an expatriate financial expert who would be posted in advisory position
with DNGR's and SNAPE's Financial and Administrative Units (CAFs). With the
above assistance, the CAFs would prepare by Jvne 30, 1990 a manual of
administrative and financial procedures for DNGR and SNAPE respectively.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.71 Financial Procedures and Systems.   To ensure the timely and smooth
functioning of the accounting and budgetary systems, the Chiefs of DNGR's and
SNAPE's CAFs would also, as part of the project, receive support on a short-term
basis (2 man-months per year) of a consultant accounting firm.   With this
assistance and that of the expatriate financial expert, the Chiefs of the CAFs
would ensure that the procedures and systems are fully operational by the time
the first major project expenditures are incurred. The expert would assist in
consolidating the accounts, monitoring the budget, analyzing the variances,
ensuring that transfers to project accounts are in compliance with project
objectives and budget, and preparing disbursement applications and records. DNGR



- 41 -
and SNAPE would maintain accounting records for project activities, consistent
with sound accounting practices which would reflect fairly, in accordance with
internationally accepted accounting principles, the overall financial situation
of the project.   A micro-computer would be used for accounting as well as
preparing and monitoring the project annual budget.
3.72 Audit.   The project financial statements and Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) would be audited annually in accordance with internationally accepted
auditing standards by a qualified independent audit firm acceptable to IDA.
Audited accounts and the audit report would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.   The audit report would include specific verification of the
legitimacy of all expenditures out of the Special Account and an opinion on the
reliabi'ity of the SOE procedures and utilization of goods and services financed
under the project. The auditors would also provide a long form report, including
detailed coments on the financial, general and cost accounting system, and an
assessment of the operational efficiency of the project.
3.73 Reporting.  DNGR and SNAPE would be responsible for monitoring project
implementation, including physical and institutional objectives.  They would
prepare semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to MARA and to IDA through
the Project Manager. These semi-annual reports would assess progress (physical.
institutional, budgetary) agqinst agreed annual programs of operations and
targets.  To this effect, DbGR and SNAPE through the Project Manager, would
communicate to IDA before September 30 of each year: (a) their respective
programs of operations; and (b) their detailed annual training programs for the
next year.  The work plan for the first year was agreed at negotiations (para
4.07). DNGR and SNAPE would also prepare a project completion report after the
credit closing date. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Proiect OrRanization
4.01 In the area of institutional support, the project has a dual objectives
(a) to strengthen government institutions so that they gradually acquire the
capacity to assume their permanent responsibilities (planning, technical
supervision, establishment of norms and standards, ex-post evaluation, etc.);
and (b) to assist small and medium scale contractors so that they can immediately
take over certain tasks (e.g., emergency maintenance) presently carried out by
the Administration and gradually move to replace large foreign-controlled
contractors for other tasks such as road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance.
To meet these objectives, the project would provide for the creation of new
permanent administrative structures in the regions (the four BTGRs) and for the
establishment of pilot contracting firms with private status (the two SPTPs).
Other administrative structures would be revamped, in particular the Technical
Support Service (STA) which would be placed under the direct supervision of the



- 42 -
acting Deputy National Director of Rural Engineering who is the coordinator
of the three technical divisions and the chief of one of them (the Rural
Roads and Constructions Division). Finally, the project would provide for
the creation of a structure with a permanent mandate to provide field
training facilltiess  the Mobile Training Unit (UME).
4.02     In view of the above objectives, assurances were obtained that
Government vould seek to establish an entity (the Project National
d'InfrRstructure Rurale - PNIR) with statutes of "Projet Public  to oversee
the administrative and financial management of the project.  The PNIR would
not be a separate operational project unit.  Rather, it would be a legal
mechanism to ensure the proper steering of project activities independently
of the regular activities of executing agencies (DNGR and SNAPE), while
keeping operational responsibilities vested with these executing agencies.
Pending the establishment of the PNIR, it was agreed that a Steering
ComKittee (Comite de Pilotage) would be established to ensure that project
activities are consistent with overall rural development policies and are
well coordinated with the activities of other development projects. It was
agreed at negotiations that establishmenc of such a Committee would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
4.03     The PNIR would be established under the tutelage of MARA.  It would
be headed by the National Director of Rural Engineering (DNGR) acting as
Project Manager, with technical implementation responsibility vested with
DNGR for the roads and bottomlands components and SNAPE for the RWSS
components.   Within  DNGR,  the  two  technical  divisions  (Rural Roads/
Constructions and Hydro-Agricultural Works) would be responsible for carrying
out implementation of the feeder roads and bottomlands components
respectively. DNGR's STA would undertake the planning-programming and
monitoring-evaluation activities in close liaison with BSD. Finally, DNGR's
CAP and Cabinet would deal with the project administrative and financial
matters and the training component respectively.   Con'erning SNAPE, the
Government's decision to grant this agency the statutes of an Organisme
Personnalisd* is important in regard to SNAPE's need for administrative and
financial autonomy to implement its investment program under the project.
It was agreed at negotiations, therefore, that submission of a decree
establishing SNAPE's new statutes would be a condition of Board presentation.
4.04     The UME, created in PYl to be in charge of field training for road
works, would be administratively and financially autonomous with statutes
of a 'Service Rattache' to DNGR.   It was agreed at negotiations that
submission of a decree creating the UME with such statutes would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
4.05     The two SPTPs would be established as private enterprises as soon
as they are created in PY2.   The Government would retain a minority
participation in their capital. The equipment they would acquire and their
working capital would be funded with long-term loans provided under the
project. The remainder of the equipment would be rented from the rental
company to be created by the Government (para 3.41). They would have to sign
a contrat plan with the Government under which they would commit themselves



- 43 -
to performing the emergency spot maintenance in their area of intervention,
following annual work programs to be agreed by DNGR and IDA. Consistent with
these programs, they would receive each year a basic operating budget funded
under the project.   Beyond the core tasks, they would be free to embark
punctually ca other type of work corresponding to their mandate, e.g., road
rehabilitation (under the initiatives support program), periodic maintenance,
and bottomland development. They would be remunerated piecemeal for these
tasks. The two directors of the SPTPs would be selected during PYI among
candidates attending the training provided under the project. They would
either be already private operators or civil servants.  In the latter case
they would have to abandon their civil servant status before being recruited
for the SPTPs. These candidates would also have to mobilize the required
capital funds and produce evidence that they have or can put together an
appropriate team to staff the relevant SPTPs. The legal ptocedures under
which the SPTPs would be set and would subsequently operate are being
prepared as part of the third PPF advance. It was agreed at negotiations
that establishment of the SPTPs under legal statutes and work arrangements
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement against road
maintenance expenditures.
4.06     The DNGR's two technical divisions, the STA and the four BTV^s would
constitute the permanent core structures underpinning the execution of DNGR's
investment program under the project. The four BTGRs would comprise each a
main office in the Region's capital and a branch office in one of the
region's prefectures. They would Wave administrative and financial autonomy
with statutes of *Services Rattachhsg to DNGR. They would, therefore, be
decentralized services of DNGR in the Regions, reporting directly to DNGR
through the Resident Ministers and functionally located in the Planning and
Coordination Offices of the Regions. The BT6R main offices would be in Labe,
Kindia, Kankan and N'z6r6kor6 respectively, with branches in Boke, Mamou,
Faranah and Gueckedou. It was agreed at negotiations that the creation of
the BTGRs as 'Services Rattachesn would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
B. Proiect Implementation
4.07     DNGR  and  SNAPE  would  each  maintain  a  separate  management
organization and ir4ividual budgets and accounts.   However, to keep an
adequate control ot sr the various components and ensure coherent project
implementation, overall project coordination would rest with the Director of
DNGR who would be the Project Manager. He would be assisted for budget and
financial matters by a Financial Coordinator presently being recruited oy
USAID. This expert would be posted for two years at DNGR's Administrative
and Financial Unit (CAF). However, the expert would also serve as advisor
to SNAPE's CAP. It was agreed at negotiations that DNGR and SNAPE through
the Project Manager would submit annual budgets and work plans by September
30 of each year for approval by IDA (para 3.73). The work plan for PYl was
reviewed and also agreed at negotiations.



- 44 -
4.08     The rehabilitation program of Category A/B roads, totalling about
2,350 km (Annex 11). was identified at appraisal, with the exception of 225
km dubbed "Initiatives Support" that would cme as complement to actions
initiated by local organizations (dcollectivitds locales') (para 3.26).
Roads of Category C upstream of villages (250 km) have not been identified.
The detailed engineering studies for the first tranche of works on A and B
roads totalling about 1,272 km to be implemented over PYI-PY3 are being
prepared by short-term consultants financed under the third PPF advance and
by CCCE (the latter for the batch of roads in the prefectures of Gaoual and
Koundara). The rest of the identified A and B roads totalling 1,078 km would
be prepared by project staff with the assistance of the resident expatriate
staff during PY1.  The remainder of the A and B roads under the initiatives
support program and the C roads would be the object of yearly programs to be
specified by DNGR by September 30 of each year,  and approved by IDA.
Maintenance work would start with a year lag following rehabilitation, as
rehabilitation contracts would include the obligation to maintain
rehabilitated roads for one year.   The detailed work schedule for the
maintenance program is given in Annex 11.
4.09     The bottomland development component would cover 2,100 ha of small
bottomlands. Work execution would be carried out partly by the SPTPs and
partly by small local contractors with major labor input from the
beneficiaries, under the supervision of the relevant BTGRs. Implementation
of the component would require close liaison with other government technical
services, in particular those in charge of research and extension (para
3.29).
4.10     The RWSS component would be implemented by SNAPE through its Bureau
d'Etude et de Programmation (BEP).   With the assistance of the inter-
nationally recruited consultants, the BEP would provide technical and
financial supervision for the RWSS investment program in Guinee Forestiere,
consisting of the construction of 220 boreholes equipped with handpumps and
the installation of small commmunity piped water supply for two large
villages.
C. Personnel Policies
4.11     Adequate staffing with staff of specific profiles would be required
for the existing and new structures coming under the PNIR. The pool of civil
servants considered to implement the staffing plan would be those with
'confirmed" status, namely those who have passed the tests recently given
under the Government's adm!nistrative reform program.  In addition, on an
exceptional basis, some staff would be allowed to come from the category of
staff "to be retrained' created as a result of the tests.   No external
recruitment would be allowed unless in truly exceptional cases.   It was
agreed at negotiations that designation by arzOt6 signed by the MARA's
Minister, of the PAIR's key national staff who are not yet in post (Annex 8)
will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 45 -
4.12     Special care would have to be taken to staff the BTGRs since they
should represent an appropriate mix of staff expertise to cover their fields
of responsibility, i.e., programming and supervision of roads works and
bottomland development, including the monitoring and evaluation of the work
of prefectural services in these areas. Moreover, the BTGR's staff set-up
should be such as to permit the creation of the Multi-Disciplinary Teams
required to undertake bottomland development. The BTGRs should, therefore,
have a core staff comprising a rural civil engineer, an agronomist, a road
economist and an agricultural economist (the two economists being also
proficient in computer use); additionally, depending on the location, other
specialized staff would be recruited (irrigation engineer, sociologist, etc.)
who might be available to work in various BTGRs.
4.13     All selected staff would undergo specialized training (para 3.17)
and should thereafter be systematically assigned to positions corresponding
to their technical profiles, with ranks and salaries commensurate with their
new responsibilities. The new system of compensation that has been put in
place as part of the Government's administrative reform program should be
systematically applied, with the various bonuses and allowances used
judiciously to motivate staff. In this regard, under the project, a total
of three houses would be constructed in the Regions in order to attract the
best candidates possible as heads of the BTGR branches (one each in
N'Zdrekore, Mamou and Faranah).
D. Cost Recovery
4.14     One central principle underpinning project implementation is that
beneficiaries would participate, financially or in kind, in the execution of
works. The rationale is that in this manner they would develop a feeling of
ownership, and therefore accept to properly maintain investments to keep them
fully productive.   The actual participation of beneficiaries would be a
prerequisite for the implementation of project components such as road
rehabilitation under the initiatives support program (a financial envelope
equivalent to approximately 250 km of roads of Category A/B) or the purchase
of handpumps for boreholes. In the first instance, the more villagers would
participate  the  more  village  communities  would  become  eligible  for
counterpart funding by the project within budgetary limits.
4.15     Based on the above principle, the participation of villagers has
been estimated at the following notional rates for the purpose of
establishing the project's financing scheme: (a) 15? for the rehabilitation
of Category C roads; (b) 15? for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads
under Category B, using labor-intensive methods; (c) 20? for bottomland
development; and (d) 352 for the purchase of handpumps. These rates would
be set as a policy on the basis of punctual studies to be prepared under the
project such as the Willingness to Pay (WTP) study carried out in Guin6e
Forestiare under the third PPF advance. They would be modified based on the
experience gaine4 as a result of project implementation. The above notional
rates were agreed at negotiations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that these rates, at the appropriate levels to be determined, would be made



- 46 -
effective by December 31, 1990, for the roads and bottomlands, and June 30,
1991, for the handpumps. Thereafter, they would be revised periodically as
additional information becomes available and further experience is gained
as a result of project implementation.
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits
5.01     Feeder  Roads.       Agricultural  productivity  cannot  increase
significantly where feeder roads are impassable or non-existent, where
transport costs are high, and where ability to get to the markets is
uncertain.   Under these conditions, there are neither the means nor the
incentives to produce a surplus.  The project is geared to help solve these
problems, particularly to integrate the regional and rural roads transport
networks into the national network presently being upgraded under the IDA-
financed Third and Fourth Highway projects.   Thus, a continuum in road
infrastructure from the larger cities to the producing areas would be
achieved, thereby providing improved access to the rural population. The
project would also make important advances toward improved maintenance of
such roads. In particular, maintenance systems based on labor-intensive
methods ("cantonnage' and Itacheronnage  systems), involving participation
of grassroots organizations, small contractors, and the use of local NGOs,
would be tested and developed under the project. The improved accessibility
to productive areas realized under the project would increase contact of the
target population with services provided by government agencies and private
contractors, including extension services, medical and veterinary coverage,
equipment suppliers, etc. On the assumption that the area of influence of
roads would extend over two kilometers on each side, and given an average
density of population of 20 inhabitants per km2 in the project areas, the
target population benefiting from the roads program would be roughly 200,000
persons.
5.02     A number of externally financed area-based development projects,
presently implemented or envisaged, incorporate rural roads and/cr
bottomlands  (para 2.47).   By strengthening DNGR's capacity to provide
technical support to these projects, the project would, in turn, enhance
their operational capacity.   The investment program under the project is
envisaged to cover areas with no ongoing rural roads or bottomlands
operations..  Therefore, the project would not duplicate any of these
interventions. On the contrary, it is meant to complement other productive
investments, especially those carried out under the IDA-financed National
Research and Extension Project whose objective is to raise farmers
productivity and, therefore, enable rational use of rural roads and the
development of bottomlands.
5.03     Bottomlands.  Bottomland development has been associated in many
countries with a significant yield increase.  It has also often been the
starting point for grassroots institutional improvements.   The two main



-  47  -
benefits anticipated from the project bottomlands component includes  (a)
increased production and productivity of food crops, thereby contributing to
the Government's food security objective and reducing food imports; and (b)
increased incomes of farmers.   However, attributing a precise level of
benefits to this component is difficult, as it is not possible to accurately
single out the proportion of benefits deriving from bottomland development.
In practice, it is the combination of a number of fectors such as price
policies, the availability and costs of inputs, credit and climatic
conditions that brings about the desired benefits. Bottomland development,
together with extension and roads, plays the role of catalyst. Under the
project, bottomland development would generate direct synergies with (a) the
creation of Category C roads designed to permit access to the bottomland
areas; and (b) the actions carried out under the PNRVA that pave the way for
adoption of improved husbandry practices. The target population benefiting
from the bottomlands program would be about 6,500 persons.
5.04     Rural Water SuDPly and Sanitation.   The project would provide
potable water to about 70,000 beneficiaries in rural areas with the most
precarious sanitary conditions in Guinea, and a consequent reduction in
waterborne diseases. It would also assist in developing and implementing a
national policy based in part on the governing principle of beneficiaries'
financial participation in RWS installations (para 4.15). The benefits from
time and energy saved in fetching and carrying water, and more importantly,
from  improved  health  conditions  would  be  substantial.          However,
quantification of health benefits due to safe water supply is not possible
because improvement in health is also influenced by other factors, such as
health education, availability of food, level of economic activity, and
hygiene practices.
B. Economic Justification
5.05     Owing to the diversity of the project components, no attempt has
been made to calculate an Economic Rate of Return (EU) for the project as
a whole. Rather, the ERR has been estimated for two subsets: (a) the roads
of Category A/B; and (b) the bottomlands and the Category C roads (Annex 16).
The benefits from rural water supply cannot be quantified and therefore no
ERR has been computed for this component. Indeed, expected improvements in
health standards cannot be estimated with any degree of precision, as
accurate health data are presently unavailable, and there is not yet any
expressed willingness to pay for drinkable water, as the population is still
unaware of the value of water quality.
5.06     Reaional and Rural Roads (Category AIB).  The selection of feeder
roads to be rehabilitated under the project was carried out on the basis of
a multi-criteria analysis applied to all the identified stretches of roads
(248 stretches totalling 4,500 km) in the 16 prefectures covered by the
project.   The methodology was devised as an alternative to computing an
ind'.vidual ERR for each stretch, which was impossible given the weakness of
available economic data. Application of the multi-criteria analysis against
the available financial envelope yielded the list of roads to be selected
under standards A and B.



l
_ 48 -
5.07     The assumptions used in the computation of the ERR and for the
sensitivity analysis of the selected roads program are given in Annex 16.
The labor input has not been shadow-priced as the share of incremental local
labor is assumed to be negligible in the 'with project, situation; also, the
labor input for road rehabilitation, mostly undertaken mechanically, is
minimal. On the basis of a road life of 20 years, the EU is estimated at
about 15.72 and the Net Present Value (NPV) of the stream of net benefits
discounted at 102 (the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Guinea) is
approximately GF 6.4 billion. If investment costs increase by 10 or benefits
decrease by 102, the ERR falls to 14.31. With both adverse variations, the
ERR decreases to 13.12.
5.08     Bottomlands and Roads (Cateaory C). For the purpose of the economic
analysis, rural roads of standard C are considered part of the bottomlands
component, as each stretch is designed to give access to the bottomland areas
being developed. The assumptions used in the calculation of ERR and for the
sensitivity analysis are stated in Annex 16. As in the case of feeder roads
of Category A/B, the incremental labor input is assumed to be negligible in
the 'with project' situation. The labor therefore has been shadow-priced
only for the purpose of costing investments, at 502 of the prevailing market
cost since there is underemployment in the project area during the periods
(in particular the dry season) when civil works would be executed. On the
basis of an economic life of 20 years for each bottomland investment and road
stretch, the ERR for this component. is estimated at 23.22, and the NPV, based
on a discount rate of 10t, at GF 1.7 billion. The sensitivity analysis gives
the following results: (a) if investment costs increase by 10 or benefits
decrease by 102, the ERR falls to 222; (b) if both adverse variations are
taken into account, the ERR decreases to 20.72; and (c) if labor is shadow-
pr_..zed at 752 of the prevailing market price or is assumed to be equal to
this price, the ERR drops respectively to 21.62 and 20.32.
C. Budaetary Implications
S.09     The project  total budgetary impact over the expected project
implementation period (1990-94) would amount to US$13.5 million (Annex 17).
It consists of four items:  (a) NARA's incremental operating costs (staff
allowances, vehicles and equipment operating and maintenance costs) (US$3.5
million equivalent); (b) incremental road maintenance costs (for roads
constructed under the project) (US$1.5 million); (c) Government's share of
investments (mainly for roads of Category AlB under the initiatives support
program, para 4.08) (US$4.2 million); and (d) taxes on investments (US$4.3
million). Items (a) and (b) would be financed on a declining basis by IDA
(para 3.57), the above figures representing the Government's share of the
remaining costs. All above items would be finanted out of the Government's
Investment Budget, with the exception of item (b) concerning road
maintenance, which should come from the line item in the Government's
Recurrent Budget earmarked for road maintenance (para 2.25). Appropriate
level and timely availability of financial resources for road maintenance are
requirements for the long-term success of the road rehabilitation program to
be carried out under the project. Assurances to this effect were obtained



- 49 -
at negotiations. i.e., that budgetary resources would be made available
quarterly and in advance to a special account at the Central Bank to cover
expected expenditures for feeder roads maintenance, consistent with the
transitory arrangements provided for under Article 3 of the June 13, 1989
Government Ordinance establishing the Roads Fund.
5.10     Following project completion. MARA's recurrent budget would need to
be increased by GP 600 million per year (1989 constant prices) to cover
incremental recurrent costs arising from the project.   This increase of
MARA's recurrent budget of about 6.5Z over its 1989 level is reasonable in
view of the expected increase of the Government's overall recurrent budget
which is presently under-funded and the significant indirect fiscal resources
likely to be generated by the project.
D. Employment and Poverty Impact
5.11     The roads component would have in the medium-term significant direct
employment generation as small scale contractors, NGOs, and local communities
would be increasingly involved in road rehabilitation and maintenance under
labor-intensive  methods.    The  bottomlands  component,  by  focusing  on
smallholders whose present yields are low, would lead to increased farm
productivity and generate substantial additional employment and income for
small farmers. By permitting general access to producing areas through an
effective network of feeder roads, the project indirect employment and income
effect would accrue both to the wealthier and the poorer segments of the
rural population.
E. Environmental Imoact
5.12     Feeder Roads.   The proposed roads program would rehabilitate
existing roads and, to the extent possible, keep their present alignment
(para 3.22). Road rehabilitation would be carried out 'n a manner consistent
with the provisions of the Bank guidelines for environmental preservation
(September 1989).  One benefit accruing from the improved maintenance of
feeder roads resulting from the project (in particular the systematic cutting
of the vegetation on the shoulders, sides and ditches) is that the roads
would serve as effective firebreaks preventing or slowing the spread of
bushfires which are a major environmental problem all over Guinea. A Guinean
official would be assigned to monitor the environmental impact of the
project.   This official would be assisted by a short-term consultant who
would come periodically (twice a year for two weeks each time after an
initial mission of two months in PY1) (para 3.09) to help with the required
environmental assessments. This consultant would liaise closely with the
Environmental Advisory Group recently nominated by the Government under its
Environmental Action Plan partly funded by the IDA SPPF (para 2.50). Road
rehabilitation costs have been purposely eetimated on a conservative basis
to allow for the additional expenditures which might be required to protect
the imediate road environment in sensitive areas.



- so -
5.13     Bottomlands.    The project would concentrate on improving the
exploitation of bottomlands which are already cultivated. A more efficient
use of these humid resources would be ensured through the provision of
irrigation and drainage structures, combined with the use of improved
agricultur&l techniques facilitated by the implementation of the IDA-funded
National Seeds and the National Research and Extension projects. In later
stages, the introduction of the system of cultivating both the deve2oped
bottomland and its slopes, as in the Gueckedou PAG Project, would permit
farmers to meet their total farming needs without reverting to itinerant
slash-and-burn and fallow methods of cultivation. The introduction of the
"bottomland complex" system of exploitation as proposed in the project (para
2.32) would lead to a reduction in the destruction of forestry resources
attributable to the traditional shifting cultivation system. In the training
of regional agricultural staff, who in turn would train farmers, the need to
ensure that agricultural practices do not lead to environmental losses would
be emphasized.
F. Risks
5.14     The main risk of the project lies in the fragility of government
institutions which are only now being strengthened after nearly 30 years of
neglect under the previous political regime. The project was designed to
deal with this risk by providing major institutional support both at the
national and local level. Technical risks to project execution also exist
due a shortage of trained staff. They would be minimized through training
programs, technical assistance, and a minimal use of force account in
carrying out the works. The project design addresses explicitly the issue
of the maintenance of rural roads to ensure their sustainability.
5.15     Concerning the RWSS component, the boreholes would be drilled in
villages which would have made substantial financial contributions toward the
purchase of handpumps. The risk is that villages may not be willing or able
to make such substantial contributions, thereby undermining the establisbment
of a viable maintenance system.   This risk would be minimized by the
sensitization program to be undertaken as part of the project. Under this
program, SNAPE's sensitization agents would be trained to ensure
participation of the villagers in the handpump maintenance scheme before the
actual borehole construction starts. Also, 20 promotional boreholes would
be drilled to get villagers acquainted with the use of handpumps.
5.16     A final risk concerns  the timely availability of counterpart
funding. This risk is minimized, however, by the fact that the Government
is presently taking drastic steps to improve public finance management under
the SAL and that participation by the beneficiaries would be sought, thereby
decreasing the Government's share of local funding.



- 51 -
VI. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     Assurances Obtained at Negotiations
(a) responsibilities between MTTP and DNGR for the regional road network
will be precisely delineated and MTTP will be associated with the
programming and supervision activities concerning the regional
network (para 2.18);
(b) based on the inventory undertaken as part of the third PPF advance,
Government will prepare a plan of use of MARA's public works
equipment (para 3.28);
(c) a Coordinating Committee (at national level) (para 3.29) and Multi-
Disciplinary Teams (at regional level) will be established to
coordinate implementation of bottomlands development (para 3.31);
(d) the Government's share of project funding will be deposited in the
two project accounts quarterly and in advance (para 3.69);
(e) the Government will establish before June 30, 1990 a manual of
appropriate financial procedures for the DNGR's and SNAPE's
Financial and Administrative Units (para 3.70);
(f) project accounts will be audited annually and the audited accounts
and audit report will be submitted to IDA for approval within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para 3.72);
(g) DNGR and SNAPE will prepare semi-annual progress reports and by
September 30 of each year will submit to IDA annual budgets and work
plans (the work plan for the first year was agreed at negotiations);
they will also submit to IDA a project completion report after the
credit closing date (para 3.73);
(h)  the agreed rates for contribution of the beneficiaries to the cost
of (i) road rehabilitation and maintenance using labor-intensive
methods: (ii) bottomland development; and (iii) purchase of pumps
will  be made  effective  by December  31,  1990,  for roads  and
bottomlands, and June 30, 1991, for handpumps (para 4.15); and
Ci) budgetary resources will be made available quarterly and in advance
to a special account at the Central Bank to cover expected
expenditures for feeder roads maintenance (para 5.09).
6.02     Condition of Board Presentation.  Signature of a decree establishing
SNAPE as an "Organisme Personnalisd" (para 4.03).



- 52 -
6.03     Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(a) opening of two local currency Project Accounts (for DNGR and SNAPE)
and initial deposit by the Government of GF 200 million and GF 50
million respectively in these accounts, equivalent to half of its
PY1 contribution to project funding (para 3.69);
(b) submission of an appropriate legal instrument to establish the
project's *Comitd de Pilotage" (para 4.02);
(c)  submission of a decree creating the UME as a "Service Rattach6' to
DNGR (para 4.04);
(d)  submission of a decree creating the BTGRs as 'Services Rattaches-
to DNGR (para 4.06); and
(e) signature by the MARA's Minister of an arr@t6 designating the
project's key national staff not yet in post (para 4.11).
6.04     Conditions of Disbursement.  The creation of a renting company (para
3.41) and establishment of the SPTPs with statutes of private enternrises and
work arrangements acceptable to IDA (para 4.05) would be conditions of
disbursement against road maintenance expenditures.
6.05     Recommendation.  With the above agreements, the project would be
suitable for a credit of SDR 31.3 million (US$40.0 million equivalent) to the
Government of Guinea, on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



GUINEA
NATIONAL RUORAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Torritorkal Organizaton of Govemment*
.     COIJTE MUTAHiE OE
I EDESSE NJ0NL
(C.M AN
PlRESDENT 0 LA PUBLIQUE
_| WItEAII A    MNT8RE                           CM | K|NSTRE D       M|8TRE EF
MIN1STRE8-RESIENTS
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
POWNOR ADMNSTRATF        IPOUVOR A... TA                                                  .
DEOONCENTRE                              B                           DECENTRAULF
KTEREGIONAL'
TECN4QUES   A - 4  SUPER-PREFET  '         'ISTRE-RESE3NT                0
co'VEGI8NALS                                                           DE]* ,0  DEVELOPPEMENT'
_   .  L____________ cII.                                                -.
ICO*AiSSKON
.SECRETARECABET                  C              .... S  REGIANALE DE
GENERAL                                               ENALATO
Do         REUAU DE                                                                    -----E   LDEC-T--AU&8K1N
3     ~~COORDINUATiO
E8 STRAnEGE_
TECHMQLIES    ~I                       **PRSONTEL'ORGANES                   '
REGrONAUX                                         DECENTRAUSEE         CO"NJ^AFS  ,
.                                                                       -SECFETAIE SECRETAIRE
AUX ARES    COLLECTVrS                               RO
o1           ~~~~ADMINISATIVES  DECNTRUSES 
PRESIENT B       PRESIDENTS 0
---CTIONS  SERVICE                                                  DEETME  DSTICT. 
EECHORAES                      N _FEE.OALD              COLE.PRE    E  I
Baed an Deorees 003 andI SCET
004 PRG dated 01/05/89.
.sor45f2r5a'



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
QUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND ANINAL RESOURCES (MARA)
Organizatlonal Structures at Central and Territorlal Levels
ECHELON CENTRAL                   |                                    ECHELONS TERRITORIAUX
IAINGTERE DE                      P rESVENT DE LA REPIB"O E
DES rdumwxmm                                               -o~~~~~~~~~~~ oOOMITE REGK*4AL
ANNALE1LrS DE DEVELOPPEMENT
lp                                                 D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E DCEONTRALSATION
.   -.   El]            D                            SECNREM REGLWALES
. RVIER8N A                                                           DC      -RESCTIONARE
V~~~GNIALE OEDE                                                    COORDAIN DES N;EISE
-an2c .D pPAM    DE
ET,-.ANEFES                                                     ANNALES          u
. - ,,,,,,....................... ,STRunEGE ET DE....... <{m8
R!ot.X                            t u  At! RUA  D     E- M>N
O3rGANS 1         t             3v                                                    P;9" SlF
PR ONNAM                                 my
. .~~~MIOE
. Gna                                   .r=                                SE
-431    TEH'L PWE ET                                         TE1D
X~~~~~~WPL                     SAAM                                            ::      I 1
r_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ft ECORLE   DEVELOPPEME,
| - -.^3 r     3   r                                                      |B_SE



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .- . - .  
GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL RESOURCES (MARA)
Organization of Central Services
|D'ETAJ A LA PECHEDES RESSOURCES ANMALES                                    CAE|         CONEUXLERS
S ERVICE NATIONAL                                 l  {r                    NSPECTION GENERALE
DrAMEhUNAOEENT DES PCXNT DEAU                SCEAEGENERAL                       DE CAG#"4ULTURE
DECTKI IN DES                           AFR8 /SERVICE DE CONROE FANCNER 
AUONSTROr YS ETFUUEFS         /
BUREAU OE STRATEGE
ET OE OEVELCPPEUENT     * 
CENTRE    . IRECTiON  _DRECTION           DRECTION      DIRECTION      DIRECTION     DIORECTION    CENTRE DETUDE
NNAX)NAL OE    NONLE     NATIONALE DE   NATIONALE DE    NATIONALE       NATIONALE      NAWIONALE       ET OE
DOCUNTATN   LAICUtJRE    LELEAE             LA FORMATION    DE8 EAUX      OU 3ENE         DE LA      PWEECTIOINE-
ET                                      S .  ET DE LA  ET FORETS      RURAL   I I IETEOROLM3E  INT 0OE     -
D0FORMATION     CELLLLE             c       PROOTION                                                NIS AICOLE
SUR LE     ADMINISTRA-    RDMMATEA-
EVLOPPBAENT  _TE                nV ST                        SERI         CELULLE       SERVICE DE       OFFICE
RURAL      4L1J.EF                                    AK4MT   ADO*4TRATIVE           AFFANIES       OFFNEE
-J -  FORMATION            E~T      ADhW4sIAnIVE       .ti oi
PRODUCTION           .CELLULE                            fANCERE    ET FINANCIERES      C W018
____        ~~~~AGRIOLE  PRODUCTIONPLNATO                             SEVC
SERVICE   ~~~   -       ANMALE      SUGRSTO            TQ!EAREAT
NATIONAL     PROTECTION |OORDINATION                                   TEC    E
DE8 SOLS         DES          SAPTE
VEGUEAANX IAALE              ICRO-
|                                                           HDENT QUALITE|RI  ETUDES.
APPROVI       ANALE8FESTIER                             AROCOLES  |ECERCHES
SIONNEME# NT8|,.    CWRE8NI AMENGENT    P1TS ET ISNSENTS
A3RK:OLESS   CENTRALE   INAr1ONAUX DE        D ES        s ATIIIENTS      ET
IID'APPRO-   I ECYCLA0E ET I FORtET8         RURAUX    I ITHODES
ESSORCES   Vk*A* |IWLOAaTl0  | FQARE9E|IAr NSE
ECONOME  CENTFtE DE ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    EThCE
I   I I     FM            RURLE    } ACRICOLE   |STEORtOLOII
ARCOLE       RtECYCLAGE   PROGRAME DE   ECONO'AE ET       BASE       METEOROLOGE
,t| Af | WSATIOZN  LEOIYATION  |O   "  OAPPLQUEEI UX
ABArTOIRS     AGIOE        FORESTIERES    DE MATOT      RESSOUIRCES                   I
iLABORATOIRES    PULC |NACURELLESTI
DE                       DE r-R-O|UcaTION
VEGETAUX  |   ENTI E      CENTRE DE
APICCLE    V ULGAIAION                                                    eSdWi270&
DE TNMO



GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL NRASTRUCTUtE PROJECT
Organigram  of the National Directorate of Rural En           -irg (DNGR)
VE LA  OMlDACONNET
MDALE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~E RSORESANAE
ECENTRED OE   . .                                                RUUAL                         I IEJAU
IA M.... ....
ECOLE 2g9 f                             _                                                   ,~~~~~~~~~ECNO
#IRYIC;E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                   CAM        UARCU    ET
, F-CO 1OESt BT3RlRAX      N9U   l S
DEL  RCsientTecnclAsstnePst
CENTRE DE                ABJOU TE)0 DURENELE|l l| |OESa
FORff                                                    de  RURA. . _;llllll
1UI'M        ihAasePoin_d4gt
_ _swl



.--  N * - N
UINEA
NkIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Organlrmn of tho NaUonal Wator Supply Agency (SNAPE)
I~~~~~ME
t.
c*Wm45169



- 58 -
ANNEEX 6
F  1 ot 2
REPUBLIC OF GUIRN
NATION. RURAL DNFRATRUCTUJRE PROJECT
H                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Rurnl Water SusaN
Publcl Invstment Preormo tPIP) up to end-IM
A.    SNAPE Invest nt Prm    over l199-198
- rsholeh         -             Total
Year             Sprinca       We Is  Force Account Enterprise    Total    Water Points
179             15           1                                       -            88
1979-1980          7C           40          -            -                         115
1080-1981          es           45          -            -                         100
1981-1982          71           47          -                           -          116
1982-1908          66           45            4           44             76        160
1908-1984          5e           4            a           -               66        172
1964-1985          so           42           64          -               64        192
195-19866          67           40           64          176            240        867
1066-1906        10            44           26          278             801       495
1908           126           84           88          8Sf            80S        565
TOTAL             701           408         294          646          1,142(o)   2,886(*)
PERCENT           84#           171         la8           BoX            491        1001
*of which 17 are not for RWS.
B.    Renional Distribution of Existins Water Points as of end-l199
Achieeoment
Objectives    -Existing Water Points as of Ene-1988-           of objectlvs
Natural Region    Phase 1      Wells     Boreholes     Springs        Total         (Percent)
Culnde Maritime    1,075        -            19J           --          1i9           16.01
Uoyenns Guln6o     2,8a0        408          154          790         1,647         47.6X
Haute  uln6e       1,565        -            684          -            684          40.0X
Ouln6o Foe stlare  1,010                     144            1          145           14.41
TOTAL               TC          14125                     791                        ECu- MM



- 59 -                   Annex 6
Page 2 of2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Rural Water Supply
C. Investments Completed v8 Projected Requirements
610
6000
Nombre de
points d'eau
l_______                  231    ___    8RE8 
soco -    l                                                        _
4400
4000 
3000                                                
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,
SOURCE  SNAPE-CEMBRE  88)
I  __________________________   174  Dicembre 87)
1000-.                            -              - -
0~~~~~3
SOURCE: SNAPE - Hydrnl'      Vi                  -1



- 60 -                    Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Rural Water SUP1Y
Public Investment Program (1989-91)
1.        There are 20 Rural Water Supply projects in the 1989-91 Public
Investment Program (PIP), including the PNIR:
(a) 3 technical assistance projects;
(b) 9 water supply construction projects currently underway (3 of them
components of various rural development projects);
(c) 7 rural water supply projects (one of them a component of an
agricultural rehabilitation project); and
(d) a SNAPE base construction project in Kindia.
2.        The 3 technical assistance projects are the followingt
(a) Master Plan for village water supply and preparation of a 200
boreholes program in Cuin6e Forestibre proposed for funding by IDA
under the PN1R. Hydro-geological and socio-economic surveys were
completed in February 1989;
(b) Technical assistance provided by FAC for planning of SNAPE. This
assistance includes setting up a computerized mechanism to assist
the planning and monitoring of village water supply projects; and
(c) Technical assistance (6th EDF) for the restructuring of SNAPE.
3.        The 9 ongoing projects are distributed as follows:
(a) Guinee Maritime: 3 projects with a total of 552 water points, of
which 193 had been constructed as of 12131/88.
(b) Moyenne Guinee: 3 projects with a total of 325 water points of
which 86 had been constructed as of 12/31/88.
(c) Haute Guin4e: 3 projects with a total of 780 water points of which
210 had been constructed as of 12/31/88.
4.        1,660 water points should be constructed under these projects.
This represents 26Z of the targets to be attained in Phase 1 (up to 1995).
Work on these projects should be completed in 4 years (1989-1992). The total
amount of the invertment will be approximately GF 16 billion.



- 61 -                    Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
5.        There are 7 projects planned with a duration of 6 years (1990-
1995). These projects are distributed as follows:
(a) Guin4e Maritime: a 1,400 boreholes project;
(b) Movenne Guinie: 4 projects with a total of 1.400 water points of
which a 100 boreholes project is due to start in 1989;
(c) Haute Guin4e: a 250 boreholes project being negotiated; and
(d) Guinee Foresti&re: a component of 200 boreholes within the present
project.
6.        2,250 water points should be constructed through these projects.
This represents 35Z of the targets to be attained in Phase 1. Work on these
projects should be completed in 6 years (1990-1995). The total amount of the
investment will be approximately GF 22 billion.
7.        The construction of a base for SMAPE includes:
(a) a warehouse to serve as storage and workshop area;
(b) an office; and
Cc) housing for the base chief.



Republic of Guinea
National  ural InfrastruZMre Prolect
Rural Water SuPlY (RD  )
LIst of RS Prolocts In tho PIP
Regional                                   lPhase 1 p/  Completed          Ongoing Projcts
Agency a      ount                         Objectives   Projects   Completed    To be                   Progrm                 To be
12/81/s8   Completed      Total      Projects      Total Prormd
Maritime Guinea                           ------------------------------ Number of Water Points ------------------------
CCCE -            FF  40.0 million            -            -         187          183          360
EDF/FAC           GF 100.0 million             -           -           13          29           42
EDF             ECUS   2.4 million            -            -           18         147          180           -
CCCE              FF  40.0 million             -           -            -           -            -         400
Total                                      1075            -          193         369          662         400          962         123.
Middle Guinea
SOF (Saudi Fund)   2   3.2 millon              -           -           18          69           76           -            -           -
UNICEF/BND         5   0.3 million            -            -          86          140          206           -            -           -
* GF  90.01million
Italy              *   8.0 milIton            -            -           6           40          46            -            -           -
IFAD              GF  60.0 million            -            -           -            -            -         100            -           -
Kfw               DM  10.0 million            -            -            -           -            -         260            -           -
KfW               FF  62.0 million            -            -            -           -            -         600            -           -
IUD               FF  62.0 million            -            -           -            -            -         460            -           -
Total                                      2880         1261          86          289          326        1400        2986            -
UDoer Guinea
IDS              WI   8.2 million             -            -         128          294         420            -            -           -
EDF            ECUS   6.0 million             _            _          51          249         300            -                        _
EURO ACORD/EDF                                -            -          88           27          6O            -            -           -
Italy              8   4.7 million            -            -           -            -           -          250
Total                                      1686          424         210          570         780          260         1464         1l8
Forest Guine
IDA                3 2.8 million              -            -           -            -           -          200            -           -
Total                                      1010          146           -            -            -         200         846           86
GRAND TOTAL                                e600         1680 k/      489 y       118e        1667         2260        5737          919
a/ Phase 1:   1979-95
b/ Number of Water Points completed as of 12/31/88:  2,319
Source:   SNAPE



-63 -                      Annex 8
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
List of Key Positions 1/
(to be filled by national staff)
Positions                                         Number
A.   DNGR
- National Director  (*)                                        1
- Chief of Cellule Administrative et
Financiere (CAF)  (*)                                       1
- Officer in Charge of Programming -
Monitoring - Evaluation at the
Service Technique d'Appui (STA)                             1
- Counterpart to the Expatriate Training
Coordinator                                                 1
- Chief of Hydro-Agricultural Development Division  (*)         1
- Chief of Rural Roads and Constructions Division  (I)          1
- Chiefs of the four BTGRs                                      4
- Chief of the UME                                              1
- Officer in Charge of Environmental Matters                    1
B.   SNAPE
- Director General  (*)                                         1
- Chief of the Sensitization and Maintenance Div. (*)           1
- Senior Driller (Kankan) (*)                                   1
- Chief of Regional Office (N'z6r4kor4) (*)                     1
Total                                                    16                   ;
1/   An asterix ()indicates staff already in post;  the remainder of the
staff is to be designated by decree of the MARA's minister as t. condition
t        ~~of Credit effectiveness.



- 64 -                    Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
List of Resident Technical Assistants
A.   DNGR
1.   Chief Rural Road Engineer, 5 years as of PYI.
2.   Training Coordinator, 3 years as of PY1.
3.   Rural Civil Engineers (BTGRs) (3 positions), 2s3 years as of PYl
and lx4 years as of PY2.
4.   Road Works Supervisors (SPTPs) (2 positions), 2 years as of PY2.
5.   Chief Mechanics (SPTPs) (2 positions), 2 years as of PY2.
6.   Training Engineer (UME), 3 years as of PY1.
7.   Training Mechanic (UME), 5 years as of PYl.
S.ub-Total: 11 positions, 34 staff-years.
B.   SNAPE
1. Community Development Specialist, 3 years as of PY1.
2.   Drilling Expert, 2 years as of PY2.
Sub-Totalt 2 positions, 5 staff-years.
C.   TOTAL  13 positions, 39 staff-years.



- 65 -                     Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Resident Technical Assistants
Chief Rural Road Engineer
Title/Accountable to: Technical Advisor to the Division Chief for
Rural Roads and Constructions (DNGR) (this latter at the same time,
assumes the responsibilities of Deputy National Director of Rural
Engineering).
Location/Duration:   Conakry, with frequent short-term missions
within the country; 5 years.
Resaonsibilities: The Consultant will assist the Division Chief
for Rural Roads  and Constructions:    (a)  generally,  in all
administrative and technical operations relating to the preparation
of studies, the establishment of contracts and the control of works
concerning rural roads and constructions; and (b) specifically, for
all operations connected with the project's investment program for
rural roads in liaison with the BTGRs. The Consultant will also
assume the role of Chief of the Technical Assistance Mission in
post at the BTGRs.
Qualifications:   Public Works  Civil Engineer  specialized in
research, control and management of rural roads contracts executed
by private contractors, with 10-12 years experience of which 5 in
Africa.
2.        Training Coordinator
Title/Accountable to: Training Coordinator (technical assistant)
reporting to the National Director for Rural Engineering.
Location/Durations Conakry (cabinet of the DNGR) with constant
liaison with CEPERMAG (Sonfonia), frequent travelling within the
country in order to ensure liaison with the other training centers
leading to their participation in the project's training
activities, including the UME headquarters in Namou; 3 years.
Responsibilities:   The Coordinator will advise the DNGR in the
planning and organization of all training activities in close
cooperation with MARA's Training Directorate (DNFPR) and the end-
users (both civil-servants and employees of private contractors).
As part of this task, the coordinator will define a policy of
continuous staff training, constitute a document file for the
staff's personal career monitoring, and establish an index of
I



Annex 9
66 -                     Page 3 of 6
technical cards by position in conjunction with those responsible
for the technical divisions of DNGR, the UME, the SPTPs and other
private contractors. The coordinator will contribute to identify
the training needs of private contractors and to establish suitable
training programs for them. These programs need to mesh in the
overall training strategy whose focus is as much on the private
sector's as on the Administration's needs.  In conjunction with
CEPERMAG and the other training centers utilized under the project.
the coordinator will:  (a) prepare annual training programs for
each of the centers; and (b) study questions relating to the
adaptation of facilities (buildings, pedagogical equipment) to the
new training activities.
Oualifications: Rural Civil Engineer with 8 years experience in
the areas of training covered by the project, of vhich 4 years in
Africa.
3.        Rural Civil Ensineers (BTGRs)
Title/Accountable to:   Technical Assistant within the Regional
Technical Offices of Rural Engineering (BTGRs) reporting to the
DNGR through the Chiefs of the BTGRs.
Location/Duration:   3 positions, one each at BTGR branches in
N 'zdrkor6, Mamou and Bok4; 3 years for two positions as of PYl
and 4 years for one position as of PY2.
ResDonsibilitiess The Technical Assistant's responsibilities ares
(a) the implementation and organization of the work of the relevant
BTGR branch (the TA based in Mamou is also responsible for
overseeing the BTGR branch at Faranah, and will have to liaise
closely with the IFAD-financed TA in charge of the BTGR branch at
Labe), with the goal of implementing studies, establishing
execution contracts and monitoring operations connected with the
project; (b) in conjunction with the technical divisions of DNGR,
the definition of socio-economic and technical parameters for such
an implementation; and (c) the on-the-job training of engineers of
the relevant BTGR branch and of the prefectures covered by the BTGR
branch, especially in conjunction with the consultant engineering
bureau which will be in charge of supervising the road
rehabilitation contracts.
Qualifications: Rural Civil Engineer or Rural Works Engineer with
10 to 12 years experience (research and field work) of which at
least 5 years in Africa.
4.        Road Works Suvervisors (SPTPs)
Title/Accountable to:  Technical assistant posted at one of the
two Pilot Public Works Contracting firms (SPTPs), reporting to the
Director of the relevant SPTP.



Annex 9
-67-                       Page4of6
-    LocationlDuration:  Two positions, one in N'z4r4kor6 and one in
Gaoual: 2 years each.
-    Resi,onsibilities:    The  TA will  assist  the  SPTP director  in
organizing and mainly ensuring the efficient and effective
operation of the SPTP activities, i.e., emergency maintenance work
on feeder roads, under the tecbnical control of the relevant BTGL
In this capacity, the TA will help evaluate the staff of the SPTP
following their training at the IJME and assist in the collection
of data and the establishment of work standards for emergency road
maintenance. The TA will as an assistant to a private contractor
working for the Administration as part of a Rational Project,
assist in the liaison with the project partners (decentralized
collectivities and territorial services, etc.).
-    qualifications.    Rural  Public  Works  Engineer  or  Road Works
Supervisor with 10 years experience in the management! supervision
of road works, of which 5 years in Africa.
5.        Chief Mechanics (SPTPs)
-    Title /Accountable to:  Chief Mechanic of one of the two Pilot
Public Works Contracting firms (SPTPs), reporting to the Director
of the relevant SPTP.
-    Location/Duration:   Two positions, one in N'z6rkor6 and one in
Gaoual; 2 years as of PY2.
-    ResDonsibilities:    In  charge  of  organizing  all  maintenance
operations, repairs and provision of fuel, lubricants and
replacement parts for the efficient and effective operation of the
SPTP. The Chief Mechanic will also be responsible for evaluating
the staff under his supervision following their training at the
W4E.
-    qualifications:  Mechanic for heavy equipment for public works,
with 10 years experience, of which 5 in Africa.
6.        Trainina Engineer (tIME)
-    Title/Accountable to:  Technical Assistant reporting to the Chief
of the Mobile School Unit (tIME).
-    Location/Duration:  Hsmou, with daily work in Moyenre Guin6e; 3
years.
-    ResDonsibilities:   Same as the Road Works Supervisors posted at
the SPTPs. In addition, the Training Engineer at the tIME will be
in charge of practical training activities undertaken within the
operational framework of the tIME, consistent with the overall
training plan designed by the Training Coordinator.



-68 -                     Annex 9
Page S of 6
Qualificationss    Rural Public Works Engineer  or Road Works
Supervisor with 15 years experience in road works, of which a
minimum of 5 years as a trainer and 5 years in Africa.
7.        Training Mechanic-tUME)
Title/Accountable to:  Chief Mechanic of the Mobile School Unit
(UME), reporting to the Chief of the UME.
LocationlDurations  Mamou, with daily work in other locations in
Moyenne Guinee; 5 years.
Responsibilities*  In charge of (a) organizing all maintenance
operations, repairs and provision of fuel, lubricants and
replacement parts for the efficient and effective functioning of
the UME, and (b) the related practical training activities.
Qualifications   Mechanic for heavy equipment for public works,
with 15 years experience, of which a minimum of 5 years as a
trainer and 5 years in Africa.
8.        Community Development Specialist
'Title/Accountable tos  Advisor to the Director General of SNAPE
for community development matters in RWSS.
Location/Duration:   Conakry with frequent short-term missions
within the country; 3 years.
Responsibilities: The Community Development Specialist (CDS) will
assist SNAPE in defining and implementing sensitization programs
and activities for community management of water points and piped
water supply and sanitation, and in corresponding training
activities.   The CDS will also assist SHAPE in monitoring and
evaluating the community development aspects of the rural water
supply investment sub-components, and studies and pilot actions
implemented under the project.   The CDS will undertake these
responsibilities in close collaboration and cooperation with his
counterpart, the Chief of the Sensitization and Maintenance
Division.
Qualifications:  Specialist in Community Development, with 10 -
12 years of experience in the RwS field, of which 5 years in
Africa, including experience as a trainer.
9.        Drilling Expert
Title/Accountable to:  Advisor to the Chief of the SNAPE base at
Kankan for drilling and related technical matters, reporting t^
the Director General of SNAPE through the Chief of the Kankan base.



- 69 -                     Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
Location/Durations Kankan, with frequent trips to drilling project
areas; 2 years (PY2-PY3).
Resnonsibilitiesa   The Drilling Expert will assist the Senior
Driller at the Kankan base of SNAPE for all borehole drilling
activities undertaken by force account by SNAPE, and provide
corresponding training to the drilling team, including the Senior
Driller. The Expert will establish organization and management
systems for SNAPE's force account drilling programs--including
logistics, operation and maintenance of equipment, personnel
administration, accounting and training--and build up SNAPE's
capacity to supervise boreholes construction undertaken by
contractors.
Qualifications: Drilling Specialist with 10-12 years of experience
in drilling for RWS (or similar field), of which 5 years in Africa
including organization of drilling activities and training.



_ 70 _            ~~~Annex 1
- 70-                          _IOAf
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINT A
NATIONAL RURAL INPRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
;
!                                       Training Prosram
Background
1.        MARA continues to reorganize as part of the Government's objective
to establish a more efficient Administration, reduce direct State involvement
in productive activities, and promote private sector development.   The
Government aims to retrench from implementation activities and to direct all
its efforts to providing the required planning, control and advisory
services. The General DirLctorate of Rural Engineering (DNGR), and the Rural
Water Supply Agency (SNAPE) of MARA are parties to this process in the
following wayss (a) the dismissed surplus of DNGR personnel will have to be
retrained to look for jobs in the private sector; (b) part of DNGR's and
SNAPE's staff will have to be trained to assume their new responsibilities
in the streamlined organizational structure; and (c) new specialties will be
needed for specific tasks, e.g., topography.
2.        In this context, DNGR and SNAPE will need specialized training.
To this effect, the project would provide all above types of training and in
conjunction, if required, specific training for private sector operators.
As a general rule, all training activities will be opened, following due
selection of candidates, to staff of other ministerial departments involved
in roads (MTTP and MUH in particular) and of private contractors.
Corresponding training programs will be prepared and managed by DNGR' a
cabinet with the assistance of an expatriate training coordinator (for three
years). This will require close cooperation with the National Directorate
of Training and Rural Promotion  (DNFPR).   The  long-term training  in
specialized areas will take place outside the country. The other training
will be local:
(a) in the Sonfonia Center (CEPERMAG, under the tutelage of MARA),
near Conakry;
(b) occasionally in other centers, e.g., existing training centers to
which CEPERM&G will sub-contract specific training tasks following
approval by DNGR; and
(c)  in the field, using the Mobile School Unit (UME), to participate
in the construction of rural roads and the development of
bottomlands undertaken as part of the project.
DNGR and SNAPE will have to prepare a training program each year specifying
the requirements and targets both for in-house and external training, to be
approved by IDA.



Annex 10
-71 -                    Page 2 of 4
Basic Training Principles
3.        The project training program is established on the following basest
(a)  the  roject ensures the training of those staff (in key operational
and advisory positions) required for project implementation, both
in the Regions and Prefectures, and in the Central Administration,
by emphasizing the long-term "promotion* and re-training sessions;
and
(b)  the trained staff then contribute to training their fellow workers
through on-the-job coaching and in training sessions of medium and
short duration in Guinea. They are assisted in this task by the
expatriate technical assistants.
4.        This multiplier effect of training is the only means to ensure at
an acceptable cost the retraining of the whole staff. It requires a finely
tuned policy of continuous on-the-job training (and of recruitment) in
liaison with DNFPR.
Training Reouirements
5.        The goal of the trainint to be Promoted (25 to 40 weeks) sessions
is to bring officials to a higher level of responsibility. Sessions will
take place, as a general rule, outside the country, at a cost of vjout
US$1,200 per man-week.
The goal of the teneral re-training (8 to 16 weeks) sess;ons is
to master new techniques, but at the same level of responsibility. Sessions
will take place within the Region (Yamoussoukro, Ouagadougou, etc.), at a
cost of about US$800 per man-week.
Altogether, these two types of instruction represent at3ut 1,600
man-weeks of training. DNGR will oversee the participant selection. This
selection will be made after personalized evaluations by a training counselor
(a short-ternm consultant) whose mission will be to assist in the
establishment of the yearly training program in conjunction with the resident
Training Coordinator.
The sessions on specialized uiaradint of skill (2 to 4 weeks),
the most commonly-held of the courses, will take place in Guinea and will
contribute to creating a system of continuous on-the-job training for DNGR
and SNAPE staff (see para 4 above).  This will concern the staff of the
Administration (irrespective of categories and locations) who wil, be
involved in project implementation and the staff of small and medium scale
contractors (SHCs), ItAcherons', etc.. A small component is anticipated for
study trips and international exchange programs.
6.        To meet the above targets, the project will include the following
training componentss (a) establishment and equipment of a Mobile School Unit
(UME) for technical field training; (b) additional buildings



Annex 10
- 72 -                   Page 3 of 4
(for lodging), specialized public works equipment, and pedagogical equipment
for CEPERMAG; (c) funding of external training sessions for *general
retraining and "training to be promoted;' a.d (d) provision of short-term
consultancies to assis4 in local training at CEPERMAG and other training
centers.
Proarammini and Monitoring
7.        DNGR's cabinet will be responsible for programming and monitoring
training activities carried out under the project. As part cf the job, the
national officer in charge of training, assisted by an exratriate Training
Coordinator, will inter alia (a) deal with the orientation of staff during
PY1; (b) ensure a permanent liaison with the DNFPR. CEPERMAG and the other
training centers concerned; and (c) establish a simple index of technical
cards by work station, particularly in connection with the work of the UME
and the SPTPs.
Field Training
8.        The project will establish a Mobile School Unit (UME) based iu
Mamou, which will provide training under real life conditions, inter alia,
in the fields of topography, engineering, and public works. The target
group for this training will be (a) the Administration's staff, i.e., not
only DNGR's staff but also the staff of other technical ministries, in
particular MTTP; and (b) private sector operators, including the staff of
the SPTPs and SMCs.
Intra-Muros Training
9.        All staff must be able to process the information collected in the
field in order tot   (a) prepare technical reports and bids; (b) verify
quantities for payment; (c) establish progress reports; and (d) prepare
statistics and databases on the national rural highway network.   This
training will be given 'n the classroom at CEPERMAG and other training
centers in the country. Like the field training, it will be open to both the
Administration's and the private sector's staff.
Technical Assistance
10.       An internationally recruited Training Coordinatcr will assist in
training for the first 3 years after which the Guinean counterpart staff will
assume total responsibility for training activities (including supervision
of the UME).  In addition, the UME will be assisted for three years by a
Civil Engineer and for five years by a Chief Mechanic. These experts will
participate in the selection of their Guinean counterparts and, with them,
establish the annual training programs (including both theoretical and
practical courses) and the most effective ways to implement this program.
To the extent possible, the local instructors will offer training in the
local language in order to be fully understood by trainees.



Annex 10
- 73 -                   Page 4 of 4
GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Summarv Trainint Requirements by Type of Trainina
Overseas 1/  Region 2/  Guinea  Misc.31
------Staff Weeks------------
A.   DNGR's and SNAPE's
Central Services
- Administrative Servicess
- DI ,,R                       24-__
- SNAPE                        24         -         -          _
- Technical Services 42s
- DNC-R                       294        240      2,000        75
- SNAPE                        30         48         48        -
B.   DNGRIs and Other Local Senirices
(BTGR9 41, UME and SPTPs)          160        144      2,000
C.   DNGR's and SHAPE's Territorial
Services
(Prefectures, Sous-Prefectures)
- DNGR                        160        254      2,000
- SNAPE                        72        152        177        -
D.   Specialized Courses for Private
Contractors and Local
Collectivities 5-                                     2.036
TOTAL                    764       838       8,261        93
-                     mN
1/ Europe and North America.
2/ West and Central Africa.
3/ Study tours, exchange programs, etc.
4J Including topography whose corps is to be completely rebuilt.
5/ In addition, all other local courses will be opened to the staff of
small and medium-scale private contractors and local collectivities.



- 74 -                    Annex 11
Page 1 of 10
GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Feeder Roads Program
I.   Public Investment Program (PIP) for Rural Infrastructure
1.        Investments in infrastructure represent about 40Z of the total
capital expenditures programmed under the Public Investment Program (PIP)
for 1989-91. The lion's share goes to the public works and transport sub-
sectors, which account for 30Z of total PIP disbursements.  The proposed
project would represent about 6Z of investments in these sub-sectors. The
above situation vividly demonstrates the priority given by the Government to
continued rehabilitation of the country's basic infrastructure, particularly
rural infrastructure.
I1. Technical Standards for Feeder Roads
2.        Standard A Roads.  This standard, adopted for the roads of the
regional network, connecting the prefectures and the sous-prefectures, will
allow an average speed of 40 km/h. The roadway will be 4.5 meter wide with
I meter shoulder on each side, i.e. 6.5 m for total road width. Outside the
natural laterite areas, a minimum layer of 10 centimeters of gravel or
laterite will be placed on the roadway. In straight alignment, a symmetrical
slope of 4Z from the center line of the roadway to the edge will be
maintained to drain the water off the track. The triangular dingies will be
1.5 meter wide with a depth of 50 cm; in the areas with slopes greater than
6X, natural material comprising laterite or rocks will be placed to serve as
energy dissipators to control the erosion problems. Water outlets will be
provided at regular intervals and will follow the same elevation curve. They
will be reinforced at the base by rock materials.  In excavated areas at
least 1 m wide berm will be provided at the foot of the slope.   The
horizontal and vertical profiles of the road will follow the existing
alignment and slope, in order to (a) minimize the need for earthwork, (b)
provide adequate drainage from the road surface, and (c) provide smooth
access to the bridges.
3.        Standard Ba and Bf Roads.  Standard Ba is adopted for the roads
connecting (a) sous-prefectures to the villages, (b) villages with other
villages, and Cc) villages to the national or regional network. It will have
the same technical standards as Standard A but with a 3.5 meter wide roadway,
with 0.5 meter shoulders on each side (i.e., 4.5 m total road width).
Standard Bf is the same as Standard Ba. However, because the present traffic
is too low to justify total improvement, the road surface will not be
upgraded.   In the future, these roads may be improved to bring them to
Standard Ba.
4.        Standard C.  This standard is exclusively adopted for the 'cul-de-
sac' links between the villages and the production areas. The roads with



- 75 -                    Annexsll
Page 2 of 10
this standard will be unimproved with a non-graveled surface and a 3-meter
wide cross-section. This type of roads vill be maintained with the minimum
work necessary to keep the flow of traffic.
5.        Culverts.  Pipe culverts will be constructed with (a) metal type
ARMCO, or (b) rrefabricated concrete pipes, or (c) SATUJO process (in-situ
construction utilizing reusable inflated rubber coffers).   They will be
approximately 7-meter long for Standard A and 6 for Standard B. At each end,
a reinforced concrete wing wall will be used with an abutment to avoid
erosion. Following the technique used for the main part of the pipe, the
covering thickness will be of adequate dimensions to avoid caving or
ruptures. An 800 millimeter diameter minimum will be required if pipes are
to be cleaned manually. In order to facilitate the procurement of material
only two sizes should be selected. Square or rectangular culvert. will be
sized according to the expected hydraulic flows. They will be constructed
of reinforced concrete and will consist of a bottom flat bed with abutments,
two vertical walls, and a top flat bed creating _ homogeneous structure.  The
up-stream and down-stream of the structure s9-nould be protected against
erosion caused by water turbulence. In certain areas, the slopes should be
protected by using stones stabilized with cement.
6.        Bridnes.  The bridges will be constructed for one-way (3.0 m wide)
use and made with abutments of reinforced concrete, stones or gibbons. The
flat top bed imbedded in concrete will be 4.0 m wide, including 3.0 m of
roadway and 2 side walks of 0.5 m each.   The intermediate pillars, if
necessary, will be of concrete.
7.        Inverts.  At the Locations where the rivers are not flowing all
year round and the access is not very abrupt, the best solution would be
submersible inverts for one-way use with concrete slabs. The up-stream and
down-stream parts will be protected against erosion by a row of gibbons.
The demarcation structures, showing the edge of the road, will be installed
on each side of the road. In certain particular cases, pipe culverts could
be combined with the inverts, and the slopes protected with stones stabilized
with cement.
III. Types of Rehabilitation and Maintenance Work
8.        Type I - Rehabilitation.  This work consists of reopening a road
to the traffic when it is interrupted, and reconstituting the different
layers based on the standards defined in section B. Also included is the
rehabilitation of bridges, culverts and other drainage facilities identified
during preparation studies. This work is almost akin to new construction
except that it would follow the existing profile, the alignment and the
natural terrain as closely as possible, to minimize the need for additional
earthwork. The number of drainage points facilities required per kilometer
of roadway will vary depending on the hydrologic and topographic conditions
prevailing in each natural region.  The importance of compaction of the
traveled way is to be emphasized.
9.        Tvye II - Periodic Maintenance.  This type of work will start
immediately following the rehabilitation of roads and will be performed at
least once at the end of the first rainy season. It consists of one pass of



- 76 -                    Annex 11
Page 3 of 10
motograder to restore the cross-section defined in standard A or B, taking
into consideration that maximum material should be brought back to the center
of the road. This will avoid the creation of a depression in the middle of
the road that could result in water-ways erosion problem.   A compacting
action should immediately follow the grading and levelling of the roadway.
During this operation the drainage facilities will be redressed and cleaned.
Such an operation should be done twice a year, before and after the rainy
season, if possible.  It is to be noted that approximately every seven years
or so, new graveling would be necessary depending on the traffic.
10.       Type III - Routine Maintenance.   This work consists of daily
maintenance, including (a) pruning of trees and clearing of vegetation in
order to allow the sun to reach the roadway, (b) maintenance of drainage
system   (dingies   and   water-outlets   cleaning,   energy   dissipators
reh.bilitation), (c) cutting the grass on the shoulders and in the ditches,
and (d) reporting problem areas to the responsible authorities for immediate
action.
11.       Type IV - Emeraency Snot Maintenance.  Based on the information
received from the field, (a) the damaged and hazardous areas on the traveled
way (landslides, potholes and erosion of graveled surface, etc.), (b) damage
to the drainage system including culverts, and (c) damage to bridges and
invests,  should be repaired through quick emergency action.   This is
necessary to avoid in-depth structural damEges to the road and sometimes to
reopen the road to traffic (in case of destruction of a bridge or mud slide
for instance.)
IV.  Procurement of Services
12.       Tvne I. Rehabilitation.  Implementation of this type of work will
be carried out by private contractors (large in size and internationally
assisted) under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following the
procedures of the financiers (either IDA, or the other co-financiers, or
Government; in the latter case, the procedures of the National Procurement
Code will be used). Work locations of similar characteristics have been
regrouped based on the studies undertaken at preparation stage to make it
sufficiently attractive to the bidders. The bids will necessarily include
one year of maintenance by the contractor. Contract award will be based on
(a) the experience of the contractor in the area of feeder roads, (b) the
knowledge of the country, (c) the unit prices, and (d) the ability to
mobilize equipment rapidly. Additionally, the willingness to accept staff
of the Administration for on-the-job training and to subcontract certain
tasks (drainage systems for instance) to small local contractors will be
taken into account in reaching decisions on contract award. The latter will
constitute one step toward the creation of an intermediate class of small-
scale contractors.
13.       Tine II.  Periodic Maintenance.  After a period of one year of
maintenance perfermed by the contractor undertaking the rehabilitation work,
it is proposed that a multi-year maintenance contract be awarded based on
local competitive bidding.  The contractors could establish a maintenance
team in each region and would be required to grade the whole surface twice
a year.   The compensation to the contractor will be made based on the



77 -                      Annez 11
Page 4 of 10
quantity of work completed.  At the peak level, approximately 2,000 km  per
year can be maintained by the contractors. This can be divided into four
equal lots for the purpose of bidding.   During project implementation,
certain locations and items of work will be specified in such a way as to be
. tractive to local small and medium size private contractors.   These
contractors would also benefit from the training facilities provided under
the Project. This would give domestic contractors the opportunity to develop
their skills in the road sub-sector.
14.       Type III.  Routine Maintenance.  This type of work can be executed
in two ways: (a) set aside certain sections of the road (say 40 to 50 km)
for small contractors (tacherons").   Payments will be made after each
section is completed. A monthly rate of US$25/km will be used for the basis
of evaluation (a "cantonnierO can maintain 3 km monthly); and (b) allocate
certain sections of the road, depending on the population density, to certain
village groups with responsibility for timely execution of work. They will
also be responsible for the quality of work completed.  The project will
provide a set of hand tools for each village groups. A lump sum of US$10/km
will be paid (US$5/km using the project funds and US$5/km from the local
participation). Additionally, they will receive UNDP/WFP food rations (10
rations/month/km). the above alternatives will be tested under the Pilot
Feeder Roads Program.
15.       As part of project implementation, a test period of two years on
about 300 km using the contractors and village groups identified at
preparation will permit to evaluate precisely the physical and financial
performance of the operators, with a view to gradually reach permanent
maintenance of the 2,000 km of roads rehabilitated under the project and
divide work efficiently between small contractors and village groups. For
the latter, one village representative will be selected by villagers and
trained under the project to be responsible for work supervision.   The
representative will, inter alia, be responsible for (a) the hand tools
furnished under the project, (b) the distribution of food rations, (c)
payment to workers, and (d) the collecting of local contributions. In the
case of the small contractors, they will furnish necessary hand tools
themselves for job completion.
16.       Type IV.  Emergency Spot Maintenance.  In certain parts of Guinea,
no operational capacity (either private or public) exists at this time to
undertake emergency maintenance.  It is therefore necessary to assist the
private sector in developing such a capacity.  To this effect, two Pilot
Public Works Companies (SPTPs) would be set up under the project. They would
be established as private enterprises as soon as they are created in PY2.
The Government would retain a minority participation in their capital. The
equipment they would acquire and their working capital would be funded with
long-term loans provided under the project. The remainder of the equipment
would be rented from the rental company to be created by the Government (para
3.42). They would have to sign a "contrat plan, with the Government under
which they would commit themselves to performing the emergency spot
maintenance in their area of intervention, following annual work programs to
be agreed by DNGR and TDA.   Consistent with these programs, they would
receive each year a basic operating budget funded under the project. Beyond
the core tasks, they would be free to embark punctually on other type of work



- 78 -                    Annex 11
Page 5 of 10
corresponding to their mandate, e.g., road rehabilitation (under the
initiatives  support  program),  periodic  maintenance,  and  bottomland
development. They would be remunerated piecemeal for these tasks. The two
directors of the SPTPs would be selected during PY1 among the candidates
attending the training provided under the project. They would either already
be private operators or civil servants. In the latter case, they would have
to abandon their civil servant status before being recruited for the SPTPs.
These candidates would also have to mobilize the required capital funds and
produce evidence that they have put together an appropriate team to staff the
relevant SPTPs.
V.  Engineerina Stueies and Work Supervision
22.       Studies.   For the roads, it is necessary to prepare technical
reports precise enough to allow the contractors to prepare and submit the
best possible bids. This will avoid future amendments, cost overruns and
possible legal actions during the project implementation.   However, the
degree or technical sophistication will be kept to the minimum in order to
keep the costs of the studies commensurate with the total project costs.
The roads and the drainage systems will follow the standards defined in the
Master Plan as much as possible. The technical studies would be carri?d out,
depending on the quantity of work or technical complexity, by (a) the
regional BTGRs, (b) DNGIL's Technical Support Service (STA) in Conakry, or
(c) the two combined.
23.       Supervision.   At the national level, work supervision will be
carried out by DNGR's Rural Roads and Constructions Division.   At the
regional level, supervision will be entrusted to the BTGRs with the
assistance of prefectaral services.  However, as supervision expertise is
lacking at present, it is envisaged under the project to recruit th-ough ICB
an Engineering Bureau that will supervise all road rehabilitation works
executed under the project and also train DNGR's staff, in particular those
to be assigned in the BTGRs and prefectures to road supervision tasks. As
part of the SMCs promotion component, several local engineering bureaus will
be identified.  They will have access to the training provided under the
project and could therefore acquire sufficient expertise to undertake small
technical studies that DNGR would sub-contract to them. This will contribute
to laying the basis for privatization of supervision activities In the long
run.



- 79 -                       Annex 11
Page 6 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INPRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
List of Equipment Required for each
Pilot Public Works Company (SPTP) and the
Mobile School Unit (UME)
Types of Equipment                               US$'000
1 Bulldozer Type CAT D7.                             50 a/
1 Motorgrader Type CAT 120 G                        125
1 Tire Compactor CAT Type P300 .80
1 Backhoe Tractor    . .  ...  ......                50
3 Dump Tv-ucks (5m3) ........ . ......180
1 Wheeloader Type CAT 916                           100
1 Water Tank Trailer         ...       .....          3 a/
1 Low-Loader Trader Trailer .30
1 Water pump lOm3/h.                                  5
1 Twin Cylinder Manual Compactor                      6
1 Tractor and Trailer..                              32
1 Air Compressor..                                   20
1 Concrete Mixer             ..                       5
4 Pick-up 4x4 DC bl ..                               80
1 Motorbikes cl                    ...                4
1 Miscellaneous Tools                               20
Total ................                        820
(for each SPTPIUME)                         -
a/ Cost of rehabilitation of equipment (i.e. 113 of cost of new equipment)
belonging to MARA and to be reallocated to the SPTPs and the UME.
bI To be replaced every 3 years.
c/ To be replaced every 2 years.



REPUBLC OF  UINIA
NATIONAL RURAL INRASTRtCnATE PROJECT
Im.l_mntatlon Scheule for AID Roads i/
Lots      Prefectres             o0       1991    1998    1998        1994   Toal     A  Ba    of    TOtal             TeaI
Investment    InvoStaSfit
OF             use
m             -                    8 1    Sl ion            ml lion
1         Memou                   S9      le        89        0         9     219    0126    98           1.6            2.7
2         Klzsldouno              So       in        72        0         0     202    0 166    S           1.7            a.0
a         ftyls-lMrousn6           0        89    1i         in          9     289 116    9S  S0           2.0            8.4
4         Dlnguire                 0        so    1no          6         0     1  656    51   80           1.0            1.6
6         Fc'mnsh                  *       18       72        0         0     202  SV  16    09          1.0            1.7
6         Lol - N'z6r6keor6       so       I         94        *         0     224   O9    82   62         2.0            8.8
7         aoual - Kounra          80      1in        17        0        0      147    4    26   87        6.9             1.6
o         Macont                  o         ao       UN       22         0     152  45    25   62          1.8            1.9              co
9         Bok6                    0         80       41        0         0      71  86   86    a          9.8             1.8
18        Plta - T6l161           *        186    1e         46         0     278   21   M       67       1.8           8.1
11        Mshetn  - Kon.nkoro  24           so        0        0         0      74  56   24        -      0.8             1.8
12-19     Ceysh - DubrUo          0         a6      la        81         0     161  in    17    89        1.4             2.4
TOTAL                           144        869      665      297        0   2,109  629  961   625    16.9               27.1
T.              rorrad istmeC program under the PNDR also tnclude  22  km of' A and Bn roads unde the Oh ititatives suppot  POa,
280 km 4f C roads (non Identitftdo, and 40 km (10 km such of A nd B  roads, and 20 km of C rodo) r.haboIlted with lao-_be
methods under the pilot program.
0~
t-
0e-
0



- 81 -                      Annex 11
Page 8 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ComPonents                      1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
A.   Technical Assistance
DNGR
1.  Chief Rural Road Engineer
2.  Training Coordinator            _
3. BTGR Engineer
3.  BTGR Engineer
3.  BTGR Engineer
4a. Road Works Superv. (SPTP)
4b. Road Works Superv. (SPTP)
5a. Chief Mechanics (SPTP)
5b. Chief Mechanics (SPTP)
6.  Training Engineer (UME)
7.  Training Mechanic (UME)                          _
SNAPE
1. Community Development Spec.
2. Drilling Expert
B.   Roads Works and Supervision
Lot No. 1 - Mamou (KfW)
Lot No. 2 - Kissidougou (KfW)
Lot No. 3 - Beyla-K6rouan6 (USAID)
Lot No. 4 - Dinguiraye (USAID)                         _
Lot No. 5 - Faranah (USAID)
Lot No. 6 - Lola - N'Zerekore (USAID)
Lot No. 7 - Gaoual - Koundara (USAID)
Lot No. 8 - Macenta (USAID)
Lot No. 9 - Bokd (USAID)
Lot No.10 - Pita - Telimele (USAID)              _
Lot No.11 - Road Macenta - Konsankoro
Lot No.12 - Supe -ision (IDA)
Lot No.13-18 - Coyah-Dubreka (USAID)
C. BuildinRgs
Headquarters
Regions
Prefectures



- 82 -                 Annex 11
Page 9 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GUINE.
NATIONAL RURAL INFUASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
A. Road Rehabilitation
PY1     PY2     PY3     PY4     PY5      Total
(1990)  (1991)  (1992)  (1993)  (1994)
-Km___________________ mm --------------------
1. Main Pro2ram
Standard A               55     200     240       45        -       540
Standard Ba              80     335     425       80        -       920
Standard Bf              40     175     225       45        -       485
Sub-Total           175     710     890     170         -     1,945
2.  Initiatives Support (including standard c)
Standard A                -      29       s0      26       25       110
Standard Ba               -      19      20       18       18        75
Standard Bf               -      12      10        9        9        40
Standard C               30      50      S0       50       50       230
Sub-Total            30     110     110     103       102       455
3. Pilot Proaram
Standard A                8      29      10        -        -        47
Standard Ba              13      48      11        -        -        72
Standard Bf              19      33        9       -        -        61
Standard C               10      10        -       -        -        20
Sub-Total            50     120      30        -        -       200
4. Total Proaram
Standard A               63     258     280       71       25       697
Standard Ba              93     402     456       98       18     1,067
Standard Bf              59     220     244       54        9       586
Standard C               40      60      50       50       50       250
Grand-Total             255     940   1,030      273      102     2,600
_m             um          _      _



-83-               ~~~~Annex 1l
- 83 -                    Page 10 of 10
B. LenLth of Roads to be Maintained
PY2         PY3         PY4           PY5
(1991)      (1992)      (1993)        (1994)
---------------------Ka -------------------
1. Main Proaram
Standard A                            55         255          495
Standard Ba               -           80         415          840
Standard Bf              40          215         440          485
2.  Initiatives SuDport
Standard A                -            -          29           59
Standard Ba               -            -          19           39
Standard Bf               -           12          22           31
3. Pilot Program
Standard A                -            8          37           47
Standard Ba               -           13          61           72
Standard Bf              19           52          62           62
C. Road Maintenance Program 1/
1. Periodic Maintenance
Standard A                            63         321          601
Standard Ba               -           93         495          951
2.  Routine Maintenance
Petty Contractors        40          186         349          385
Village Communities      19           93         175           193
1/  The assumptions are as follows:
- Periodic maintenance (mechanized) is performed on all Standard A/B
roads as of the second year following their rehabilitation (the first year
maintenance is performed by the contractors in charge of rehabilitation).
Costs (a) Standard As GF 232,0001km; and (b) Standard Bat GF 196,000/km.
- Routine maintenance is performed on all roads (it is assumed that for
Bf roads such maintenance is sufficient, so that no periodic maintenan^.e is
required) and is carried out for 2/3 by petty contractors at a cost of GF
159,000/km and 1/3 by local collect'vities at a cost of GF 80,000/km.
- Category C roads are maintained by the local collectivities at their
own expense.



- 84 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
GUIEA
GUINEA RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TYDes of Bottomland Develooment
Area     Cost
TyDe                   DescriTtion                         (ha)    (GF/ha
I.  Small seasonably flooded, subjected to simple        490      640,000
improvements, such as construction of contour
bunded fields of about 250 m2; no major
irrigation or drainage work; all construction
work done by farmers under direction.
IT.  As at 1, but with a constructed main drain to        900     740,000
evacuate surplus water.
IIT.  As at 2, but vith added irrigation network           420     880,000
and provision of intake structures.
IV.  As at 3, but with a mall dam constructed             200   1,650,000
for storing not more than 20,000 m3 of water
for off-season irrigation and high level water
management.
TOTAL                                              2,010



Annex 12
- 85 -                     Page 2 of 2
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Valley-Bottom Area Develogment Protram
TYPE
BTGR       Prefecture   -----------------------------------
I         II       III        IV        TOTAL
------------------ hectares -----------------
Kindia     Coyah          70        50        40         20        180
Dubr6ka        -         30        20        20          70
Bok6          30        20          -         -          50
T1li=6l6      30        50          -         -          80
Sub-Total             130        150        60         40        380
Labd       Roundara       65        20         -          -         85
Gaoual        65         20         -         -          85
Pita          S0       160         40        30         280
Mamou         40        110        80        50         280
Sut-Total            220        310       120         80        730
Kankan     Faranah        40        60        20          -        120
Dinguiraye    30         30         -         -          60
KArouan6      30         20         -         -          50
Sub-Total__
t100      110       i2           -230
N':zr6kor4 N'zdrdkor6      -        70        30          -        100
Beyla          -         70        20         -          90
Macenta        -         60        40         -         100
Klssidougou   40         80       100        80         300
Yomou          -         50        30         -          80
Sub-Total              40       330       220         80        670
Grand Total              490       900       420        200      2,010
_          _m         _         __



Repubilc et Ouinm
National Rural Infrestructure Project
Sumary Account by Project Cemponent
OF 000
Phyeical         Price
VILLAGE                                     Contingnci..    Contt_gencle.
ONR      SMAPE             FEEDER  BOTi1l-L   WATER               PILOT
SwPORT   UPPSRT TRAINING    ROADS    ANS    SWPPLY   SIOIES  ACTIONS            Total       X    Amunt       X  Aount
I. DWRESTUEf COSTS
A. Civil Work.                     794.6    130.1    168.9  16977.9   1361.6   2193.4        0.0   2465.7       2068.9       9.4   2440.7   24.7   6425.5
S. Vebhcles                        991.7     46.4      77.9      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1126.0      0.0      0.0   17.7    197.9
C. Eq41pLPn"t                      404.4    256.4    612.0    416.9       0.0    125.1       0.0       0.0       imJ.1       0.0      0.0   11.7    220.7
D. Technical Aesistance
1. Short-term conmultancle        620.7      0.0    019.6       0.0      0.0       0.0    664.4       0.0       2104.6      5.0    105.2   16.1    337.J
2. Reldmnt Experts               1136.6    414.3    349.0    821.8        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       2779.'      0.0      0.0   24.7    665.$
Sub-total                         2009.8    414.6   1466.7    821.8        0.0      0.0    684.4       0.0       4376.5      2.2    105.2   21.0   1028.8
E. Training Course.                  0.0      0.0   1496.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       1496.2      5.0     74.9   16.2    278.4
F. mP                               88.6      0.0      94.4      0.0      0.0       0.0    726.8      46.7        900.1      0.8      2.8    7.7       69.6
Totl I vs     T COSTS             4228.6    647.4   8060.0  19716.1   1862.6   2816.6   1300.7   2601.5         86842.8      7.2   2682.1   22.6   6211.8    
II. RECIERENT COSTS
A. Incremental Staff                54.0     10.1      11.3      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         75.4      0.0      0.0   35.0       41.9
S. VehIlel OU                     1068.4     41.0      46.1      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1160.5     10.0    115.1   21.6    248.0
C. Equipment 086                   674.8     87.2   1567.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       2M96.6     10.0    22.9   16.8    421.2
0. Road iaintenance                  0.0      0.0       0.0   1987.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1987.0     10.0    198.7   86.5    706.2
Total RECURREC T COSTS            ITel.?     8t.4   1644.4   1907.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       5461.4      9.9    588.e   26.0   1417.4
Total BASELINE COSTS              6016.8    985.7   5624.4  21655.1   1862.^   2316.5   1890.7   2601.5         41803.6      7.0   8170.7   28.0   0626.7
Physical Contingnciee            290.8     20.9    286.1   2091.6    1SO..    185.4    t8.2    125.1           8170.7
Price Contingencle              1171.d    170.1   1038.4  5619.6    491.4    401.2    101.9    434J1           9626.7      7.4    712.9
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~    -                  ---------- - -
Total PROJECT COSTS               7460.4   1126.7  60947.9  29666.4   19t0.2   2905.t   1626.3   8060.6         54608.2      7.1   3868.7   17.6   9e62.7
Tezes                            941.0     58.0    064.6   1016.7    200.0    254.1        85.0    186.7       4102.0      6.6    860.0
ForeIgn Exchange                C530.7    612.4   5487.7  19756.9   1816.8   2196.0   1866.4   2877.2         86644.5      6.9   2689.2
-   ---                     ~~~~~~~~~------------------ -             ~
Volume Scaled by 1000.0  11/15/1909  11:46
D,w
o w



Republic of Quinea
National Rural In raetructur Project
Projects Componnto by Year
Totalo Including Contingencios                          Totals Including Contingencies
OF 000                                                  US$ 000
iMO     1991    1992    1998    1994   Total            1960    1991    19m      1998    1m4   Total
A. INSTITUIONAL  EVELOPMENT
1. ONmt SUPPuRT               2266.1  162.2  1805.9  1J18.6   897.6  7480.4            8.7      2.6     2.8      2.1     1.5    12.2
2. SNAPE SMUPT                 421.    886.8   256.8    67.7    26.1  1120.7           0.7      0.6     0.4      0.1     0.0      1.6
8. TRANING                    2047.7  1642.5  134.7  1069.6   628.5  0947.9            8.8      2.5     2.2      1.7     1.5    11.8
Sub-Total                        4785.1  8401.0  8015.9  2475.6  1647.2  16655.1          7.7     5.6      4.0     4.0      8.0    25.8
S. INVESTWIET A MIADTE"ANCE
1. FEEDER ROADS               2207.8  9784.7 110M.0  8616.8  21(0.2 29666.4            8.6    16.6    16.9       6.2     8.5    48.1
2. 00Tl01-LANDS                  0.0   60.4   290.2   567.7  1048.9  1990.2            0.0      0.1     0.5      1.0     1.7      8.2     cOD
S. VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY        73.3  1204.2   6O 67    26.0    27.8  2906.1            1.8      2.0     1.4      0.0     0.0      4.7
Sub-Total                        2066.1 11007.8 12706.9  4480.0  8289.8 84461.7           4.9    17.9    20.8      7.2      5.8    56.0
C. STUDIES A PILOT ACTIONS
1. STUDIES                    1525.6     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  1525.6         2.5     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      2.5
2. PILOT ACTIONS               867.8  1827.0   6t4.0   202.0    69.9  8060.6           1.4      2.2     0.9     0.8      0.1      6.0
Sub-Total                        2418.4  1827.0   564.0   202.0    89.9  4866.4           8.0     2.2      0.9     0.8      0.1     7.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS            10156.6 1579.8  16866.9  7107.8  5170.5 54608.2         O1.5    25.7    26.6    11.6        8.4   $6.6
Valu. Scaled by 1000.0 11/15/1969 11:60
IP0



Republic of Guinca
Nationf  .dral Infrastruc4rs Project
Summry Account. by VYer
Totals Including Contingencis                           Total* Including Contingenc_i.
OF 000                                                  USS 000
1090    1901    1902    1993    1994   Tota I           l00    19i1    1902    1990    19iW   Tot-.li
I. DrIESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                   4807.6  11760.9 12087.0  8624.8  2110.0 84940.0           7.1    19.1    20.9       6.2      8.4    560.
6. Vehicle                        548.7    26.2   166.4   404.2    91.4  1818.9            0.9      0.0     0.8      0.6      0.       2.1
C. Equlpmet                      1376.8   447.7    67.2    20.1   199.2  2106.6            2.2      0.7     0.1      0.0      0.8     3.4
0. 'c hical Assistanc
1. Short-term consultancies    1063.1   846.5   862.6   379.0   890.9  2547.9           1.7      0.6     0.6      0.0      0.6     4.1
2. Reeldent Expert.            4609.6   126.1  1009.0   406.4   245.4  8469.1           0.6      2.2      1.0     0.7      0.4      5.6
Sub-Total                        1652.7  1671.6  1372.2   780.2   642.8  6007.0            2.6      2.7     2.2      1.8      1.0     9.8
E. Training Courses               462.1   6C0.0   463.4   279.4   101.5  1646.6            0.0      0.9     0.7      0.5      0.2     3.0
F. mV                             967.7      8.8      8.6     8.6      8.6   971.9         1.6      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     1.6
Total DIVESTMENT COSTS           9260.4 14461.7  14909.7  5416.7  8148.. 47186            16.1    28.6    24.2       6.6      5.1    76.7       co
II. REOURRENT COSTS
A. lncrmntal Staff                 16.0    21.2    24.1    26.8    27.6   117.8            0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.2
0. Vehicle O&M                    276.6   801.9   847.0   288.8   806.2  1518.6            0.4      0.6     0.6      0.6      0.5     2.5
C. Equipment 0N                   602.6  6o2.6   6560.5   51.0   606.6  2949.6             1.0      1.0     0.9      0.9      1.0     4.6
D. Road Maintenance                 0.0   417.6   529.0   601.5  1068.7  2686.0            0.0      0.7     0.9      1.S      1.6     4.6
Total RECURREIT COSTS             606.2  1843.7  1457.2  1692.1  2026.8  7417.4            1.5      2.2     2.4      2.3      8.8    12.1
Total PROWECT COSTS             101560.6 1569.8  1686.0  n107.   6176.S 546u0.2           16.5    25.7    26.6    11.6        0.4    06.6
Value Scaled bvy 1000.0  11/16/1969  11:48



- 89 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Procuremer-t of Goods and Services
Svecification of the Main Lots to be Procured
A.    Technical Assistance
Source of         Value
Descriotion             Term                    Financina          Net of
Taxes
(US$'000)
Lot 1 (Feeder Roads and Bottomlands, Resident TA)
-Chief Rural Road Eng.    lx5 years                 IDA            900
-BTGR Engineers           2x3 years and             IDA          1.600
lx4 years
-Road Works Superv.(SPTPs)2x2 years                 IDA            600
-Chief Mechanics (SPTPs)  2x2 years                 IDA            600
Sub-Total                                                  3,700
Lot 2 (Feeder Roads and Bottomlands, Short-Term Consultancies)l/
-Pedologist              2 months x 5 years         IDA            250
-Agriculturist           2 months x 5 years         IDA            250
-Agricultural Economist  2 rnuths x 5 years         IDA            250
-Computer Specialist     2 months x 5 years         IDA            250
-Road economist          2 months x 5 years         IDA            250
-Financial taditor       2 months x 5 years         USAID          275
-Assist. to Supervision  1 month  x 5 years         IDA            125
-Environmental Spec.     2 months s 5 years         IDA            250
Sub-Total                                                  1,900
Lot 3 (Training)
-Training Coordinator    1x3 years                  IDA            500
-TrainiL.g Engineer (UME) ls3 years                 IDA            500
-Training Mechanic (UME) lsS years                  IDA            800
Sub-total                                                1,800
Lot 4 (Water Supply)
-Community Dvpt. Spec.   1x3 years                  IDA            530
-Drilling Expert        l12 years                   IDA            320
Sub-total                                                   850
TOTAL                                                           8,250 11
1/ The remainder of the short-term consultancies corresponds to studies and
training activities, and would be procured separately.



- 90
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
B.   Goods                            Value
Source of  Net of
DescriDtion        Financint  taxes        PY1   PY2   PYS   PY4   PYS
(US$'000)    ------Units or batches-----
Lot 1
Motorbikes               IDA       300     46           46
Lot 2
Vehicles                 IDA     1,900     48    2      7     34
Lot 3
Office Equipment         IDA       600     X
Lot 4
Other Office Eq.         IDL.      500     X     X      X
Lot 5
Heavy Duty Equip.      IDA/KfW   2.700     X            X     X     X
TOTAL                       6,000
C.   Civil Works
1.    Roads (Category A and B)
-Lot 1  Mamou           KfWIGVT 3,300      219
-Lot 2  Kissidougou     KfW/GVT 3,700      202
-Lot 3  Beyla-KRrouane  USAID   4,200            239
-Lot 4  Dinguiraye      USAID   2.100            136
-Lot 5  Faranah         USAID   2.200      202
-Lot 6  Lola-N'z4r4kor4 USAID   4.200      224
-Lot 7  Gaoual-Koundara IDA      1,800     147
-Lot 8 Macenta          USAID   2,200            152
-Lot 9  Boke            USAID   1.700             71
-Lot 10 Pita-T4limdlE   USAID   3,900            278
-Lot 11 Macenta-
Konsankoro     IDA     1,200       74
-Lot 12 Supervision      IDA     2.000      X
Subtotal         -     32,500   1,068   876
2.    Pilot Actions      (Coyah and Dubr4ka Roads, 161 km)
-Lots 13-18(6x27 km)    USAID   2,200              X      X
3.    Water SuDDlY
-Lot 19 (207 Boreh.)IDA         2,300
-Lot 20 (20 Boreh.) IDA           300
-Lot 21 (Superv.)   IDA         1,100
-Lot 22 (Com. Piped WS) IDA       450
-Lot 23 (CWS Des. + Sup)IDA       150
Subtotal                 4,300
4.    Buildings (Conakry)
-Lot 23                 IDA       500
TOTAL                   39,500



_91_                             Annex 15
REPUBLIC OF GUINE
RATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Disbursement Profiles
IDA''s I* m's   ProJect' 9 Estimated Profile          Standard Profile
FYs     Semesters   Per Semester Cumulative       Per Semester Cumulative
0----- -0$-------    z    --------000$--------  X
1990         I       1,200        1,200       3          400       400    1
II      2,000         3,200      8        2,800     3,200    8
1991         I       3,600        6,800      17       3,200      6,400   16
II      5,200        12,000     30        4,400    10,800   27
1992         I       5,200       17,200      43       5,200    16,000   40
II      5,200        22,400     56        4,800    20,800   52
1993         I       4,800       27,200      68       4,800    25,600   64
II      3,600        30,800     77        4,000    29,600   74
1594         I       3,200       34,025      85       3,600    33,200   83
II      2,000        36,000     90        2,400    35,600   89
195         I       2,000       38,000      95       2,400    38,000   95
II      1,600        39,600     99        1,600    39,600   99
1996         I         400       40,000    100           400    40,000  100
40 X 
41.
n 90    FY91       FY92      PY93        FY94       FY95     nY96
U.V
a   UmA#                4   PR



- 92 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC of GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A. Rural Roads (Standards A and B)
1.    The selection of rural roads to be rehabilitated under the project's 1845
km investment program was carried out on the basis of a multi-criteria analysis
applied to 248 stretches of roads (totalling approximately 4,500 km) which had
been previously identified. Seven criteria defined an index for each stretch,
aimed at measuring performance.  The criteria selected weres  (a) number of
population serviced, (b) agricultural potential, (c) existence/efficiency of
administrative services, (d) volume of road traffic, (e) physical accessibility,
(f) existence of development projects, and (g) priority/interest expressed by
local authorities. Each index was converted into a grade on a scale 0-5 and the
grades were weighted according to the criteria.  The overall grade for each
stretch measures the benefit of the stretch which is compared to the
rehabilitation cost for each stretch yielding the benefit/cost ratio which ranks
the stretches.  This multi-criteria analysis yields the list of roads to be
selected under standards A and B.
2.    An economic rate of return (ERR) is calculated using sector averages for
selected roads under each standard, i.e., A, Ba and Bf.  The average life
expectancy is assumed to be 20 years with no residual value. The schedule of
investment is as follows:
Table 1          1990               1991             1992                1993
Standard A(km)    39                171              225                  44
Standard B(km)    72                314              414                 80
Standard Bf(km)   39                174              229                  44
3.          Base cost estimates for rehabilitation of roads (Table 2) are
calculated using financial costs prevailing in June 1989. These are also used
as economic costs since (a) the share of incremental local labor in the total
cast is negligible, (b) taxes to be eliminated are estimated to be only 7Z of
base costa, and (c) physical contingencies to be added are also estimated to be
only 72 of base costs.
Table 2           (Base Economic Costs)           (GP '000/km. June 89 prices)
Standard A                                10,250
Standard La                                8,475
Standard Bf                                3.120
4.    Annual maintenance is estimated at GF 232,000 per year for standard A
roads, GF 190,000 for standard Ba, and is assumed to be negligible for standard
Bf. Appropriate notional maintenance would be needed for all standards in the
without project" case to maintain the present level of ices   A111 m I 4a.   t



Annes 16
- 93 -                    Page 2 of 4
is roughly equivalent, though probably greater, than the maintenance calculated
in the 'with project' case. By excluding these likely savings on maintenance
costs from the ERR calculation, the estimate is more conservative.
5.    Present and future rural road traffic is broken down into (a) agricultural
traffic (exports of crops, imports of inputs) and (b) all other traffic
(passenger traffic, transit traffic, non-agricultural goods traffic).   The
benefit accruing from the rehabilitation of rural roads for traffic type (a) will
be estimated through the producer surplus (i.e., the incremental agricultural
production, valued at local market prices, net of intermediate consumption).
The benefit for traffic type (b) will be estimated through the consumer surplus
(i.e., the savings on vehicle operating costs, VOC).
6.    The producer surplus is calculated according to the following assumptionss
(a) the road impact extends up to 2 km on each side, as indicated in t_ae BDPA-
Scet-agri PNIR preparation report (April 89), (b) on a typical farm, 7 people
live on 1.5 ha of paddy, with a basic personal consumption of 100 kg of rice per
capita and per year, (c) rice production is complemented by other food and cash
crop production which varies widely through the  country.   This non-rice
production is assigned a value equal to another 2.0 ha of paddy per family (paddy
represents from one-third to one half of cash revenue depending on the location
thus, a reasonable estimate), (d) the local market price is calculated on the
assumption that 50Z of rice is destined for the Conakry market (GF 190/kg CIF
Conakry minus GP 40 on average transportation cost) and 50Z to the Fouta-Djailon
market (GP 250/kg minus GF 50 on average transportation cost) (note that lkg
paddy yields 0.6 kg of rice under simple methods prevailing in Guinea), and (e)
the cost of inputs (ezcluding labor) under traditiosal cultivation is close to
GP10 per kg of rice.
7.    Table 3 shows levels of several of the performance criteria, as measured
in the BDPA-Scet Agri report, as well as the overall average including the non-
selected roads.
Table 3                        St.adard A    Standard Ba  Standard Bf General
Traffic (heavy Veh/week)          24.3             9.9          3.6       8.3
Traffic (light Veh/week)           6.9             7.6          1.1       4.1
Population density(hab/km2)       30.1           27.9          19.7      20.7
Production indez                   8.1             7.4          6.7       6.3
Agricultural potential index       9.7             9.1          8.0        6.7
Paddy yields (present)(kg/ha)      960             880          800        750
Paddy Yields (PYS)(ka!ha)         1390            1200          960        750
Source:     BDPA-Scet Agri, PNIR Preparation Report
8.    The 2 sets of paddy yields, Present and PYS, from Table 3, are based on
production indexes (scale of 0-15) which are proxies for agri-!:ltural pyoduction,
based on estimated food and cash crop yields per hectare. The yield iror paddy
is assumed to be proportional to the production indexes. As traditional yield
for paddy is 750 kg/ha (Annex 3), the average present yield for the farms
serviced by standard Bf roads is estimated at 800 kglha, for Ba, 880 kg/ha, and
for A, 960 kg/ha.



-94 -                      Annex i6
Page 3 of 4
S.    In the "without project' case, the yield is ausumed to remain constant.
The yield increase in the 'with project* case is assumed to reach its maxfimum
in PY5 and to remain constant thereafter.   The PY5 yields are based on the
agricultural potential index. The maximum yields in PY5 are estimated at
960 kg/ha for standa-d Bf, 1200 kg/ha for Ba, and 1,390 kg for standard A. It
appears that yields near the roads selected under standards A and B are
significartly higher than the national average (both now and in PY5). Similarly,
one can note that A roads have significantly higher yields than B roads.
10.   The population serviced by the considered roads is assumed to decrease
slowly (-11 per year) in the "without project* case, and a little more quickly
(-2Z year) in the 'with project' case.
11.   As mentioned, the consumer surplus is calculated on the non-agricultural
traffic. The total traffic volume for the average road of each standard is found
in the preparation study, the agricultural traffic is estimated and the non-
agricultural  traffic  is  calculated  from  the  difference.    Current  local
agricultural traffic it estimated according to the following assumptions: (a)
lOZ of tonnage is transported by light vehicles, vith an average of 0.4 ton of
rice per vehicle; (b) the average load is 1.5 ton of rice for heavy vehicle. plu;
ton agricultural inputs; (c) the average length of transportation for the
production generated around one km-long stretch is 40 km on standard A roads,
30 km on standard Ba and 20 km on standard Bf; and (d) the average annual growth
rate of non-agricultural traffic volume is estimated at 4Z.
12.   Table 4 gives the current non-agricultural traffic volume computed on the
above hypotheses, for each standard.
Table 4          Standard A               Standard Ba                Standard Bf
Heavy Veh/week      12.9                      3.6                       1.1
Light Veh/week       2.5                      5.0                       0.0
13.   Savings on vehicle operating costs were calculated for various rural road
projects in Guinea, mainly the "Projet de Ddveloppement Rural* (1988) in GuinGe
Maritime (CEF), and the 'Projet Pistes Rurales du Sud-Est du Fouta-Djallonm
(1986)  (FIDA).   The latter was re-estimated with 1989 prices yielding the
following figures: GF 115/km for heavy vehicles and GF 45/km for light vehicles.
Under these conditions, the first year benefit for one average km of road is GI
6,600 for standard Bf, GF 34,200 for Standard Ba, and GF 86,100 for Standard A.
14.   Table 5 gives the unit producer surplu  for the average km of road for each
standard during the project period.
Table 5       Standard A                Standard Ba              Standard Bf
('000 V GF/km)
PYl                460.4                    329.5                    128.5
PY2                954.1                    678.4                    260.8
PY3             1,483.8                   1,048.0                    397.2
PY4             2,052.3                   1,439.5                    537.8
PY5             2,662.6                   1,854.6                    682.8



Annex 16
- 95 -                   Page 4 of 4
15.   The ERR is 15.72 for the rural roads component and GF 6,419 million as
present net value with a discount rate of 10. If the investment costs increase
by 10X or benefits decrease by lOZ, the ERR reaches only 14.3 Z. With both
adverse variations, the ERR falls to 13.1Z.
B.    Bottomlands and Standard C Roads
16.   ERRs have not been calculated for individual bottomlands, or for individual
Standard C road stretches. An ERR is calculated for the subset comprising the
bottomland component and the Standard C roads component. Base cost estimates
for development of different types of bottomlands are given in Table 6 and are
based on current costs at June 1989 prices.
Table 6                              Investment Cost ('000 GF)
Type 1 development                            510/ha
Type 2 development                            550/ha
Type 3 development                            670/ha
Type 4 development                          1,440/ha
Standard C road                             2.500/km
17.   Economic cost for development is calculated by introducing a shadow price
equal to 50Z of the prevailing market prices of surplus local labor (20? of base
cost). Taxes are deducted (-10X) and physical contingencies added (+79) giving
a net variation in cost of -3Z. Similarly, the economic cost for roads
rehabilitation is calculated by a shadow pricing of prevailing surplus labor
costs (502 of base cost). Taxes are deducted (-72) and physical contingencies
are added (+7Z), which gives no variation. The initial yield of paddy is 750
kg/ha and the target for PY5 is 2,000 for type 1, 2,500 for typ's 2 and 3, and
3,000 for type 4. Yield is assumed to remain constant the following 15 years.
As stated in para 6, the value added for one incremental kg of rice is GF 165.
18.   It is assumed that the project will have a positive impact on vegetable
crops  (Annex 3).   A conservative estimate of the value added is 200,000
GF/ha/year, when counter-season crops are cultivated. It is further assumed that
30? of type 1 developments is affected, 40? for types 2 and 3, and 60? for type
4.
19.   Table 7 shows the schedule of implementation for bottomland development
and roads.
Table 7                   1990       1991        1992       1993       1994
Type 1 (ha)                0          20           90         160       220
Type 2 (ha)                0          50          190         290       370
Type 3 (ha)                0          20           80        140        180
Type 4 (ha)                0            0           0          40       160
Standard C road (km)      30          50           50          50        50
20.   The ERR is 23.2Z and a net present value discounted at 10? of GF 1,672
million.  If the cost of investment increases by 1OZ, the ERR falls to 21.8?.
If benefits decrease by 10? the ERR falls to 22?. If both variations are taken
into account, the new ERR is 20.7Z.



Annex 17
- 96-
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Proiect Budaetary Impact
(1995
PYl    PY2    PY3    PY4      PY5   Total  Onward
(1990) (1991) (1992) (1993)  (1994)             a/)
---------------------US$000--------------------
A.  MARA's Operating Costs b/   50    400    750   1,000   1,300  3,500  1,100
B.  Road Maintenance c/           -      -     200      500     800  1,500    750
C. Government's Share of
Investments               150  1,150  1,200       850     800  4,150    -
D.  Taxes on Investments         800  1,200  1,500      500     350  4,350    -
Total                   1,000  2,750  3,650   2,850   3,250 13,500  1,750
a/ 1989 Constant prices
b/ Financed by IDA on a declining basis: 100, 802, 60S, 43Z, and 20S.
c/  Financed by IDA on a declining basis: 752, 552, 352 in PY3, PY4 and PY5
respectively; remainder financed by budgetary line item in National
Budget earmarked for road maintenance.



IBRD
To Kedougo      M A L I                                    ~~~~~~~~NATIONAL 'RURAL
G Ul N EA                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INFRASTRUCTURE
TO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NoSooPROJECT
PROJECT INVESTMENT
PROGRAM
N,  AUwooiher Ro*ds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to                                      n o
AJIANfIC~4                                     MEO                                                                                                20 6  0    0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wS so1 



0    40         in12
GUINEA -                          E    AL 
BISSAU
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                         1                                 S
0 t'-tX   ? S<Dd |  Khda                       s               ^  fi   }J aou
~~.'     fln\
Sok           MM" 0FL Frih//V r{f
PROJECTIMMMMnNG MUCn                     NATIONAL RURAL          Y J     o8sikugu  m2 
g #- ~~~~~INFRATRUCTRE PROJECT O    
0  vi wco                                A,91TPTV REM CA ML
oX     69  ~~PaOKL C^PnAL           f          _ oMcet             oyla    
oCew tOM $0= OAE)                       P 05>RE iFECll^ESOWDARMEI (/gJ
WWW"'11 mooxn.t           lF NnTRMXr**                        f                7    A )A)/ 
r (3 sz^Pelsio W>s?   >_                        }   ~~~LIBERIA      /4reoL           c
C)       Z                           t      SIERRA                                 o 
~~~LEONE                                       Yomou       \      6r
,  \  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ioR
*L w=         w     ,                           a                                                                   mr 



