CREDIT NUMBER 2106 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(National Rural Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated              i  3o, 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2106 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /97, 1990, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (KfW), an agency of the Federal Republic of Germany,
a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent to $6,800,000 to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and KfW;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from Fonds d'Aide et de
Coop6ration (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the FAC Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and FAC;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) a grant (the USAID
Grant) in an amount of $27,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
USAID; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Preparation Advances" mean the project prepa-
ration advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated June 13, 1988, August 4,
1988, November 2, 1988, November 21, 1988, June 19, 1989 and
July 20, 1989 between the Borrower and the Association;
(c) "MARA" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal
Resources of the Borrower;
(d) "DNGR" means the national directorate for rural
engineering within MARA;
(e) "MTTP" means the Ministry of Transport and Public Works
of the Borrower;
(f) "SNAPE" means the national rural water supply agency of
the Borrower;
(g) "UME" means the mobile training unit, based in Mamou,
for training in rural road maintenance and engineering;
(h)  "SPTP" means a pilot public works company, for rural
road maintenance and engineering; and
(i) "BTGR" means a technical bureau for rural engineering
within MARA.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-one million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,300,000).


﻿- 3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a local
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Tiorrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement


﻿for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing June 15, 2000 and ending December 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lied of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the


﻿-5-
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
DNGR and SNAPE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate rural, engineering, water supply and sanitation
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
(i) open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Asscciation, and thereafter maintain two Project
Accounts in the name of DNGR and SNAPE, respec-
tively, in the Central Bank of the Borrower for
payment of expenditures for the Project, not
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the KfW
Grant, the FAC Grant or the USAID Grant; and
(ii) shall make into said Project Accounts initial
deposits of 200 million Guinean Francs for DNGR and
50 million Guinean Francs for SNAPE.
(b) In addition to said initial deposits, the Borrower shall
replenish the Project Accounts quarterly in amounts estimated, on
the basis of the budgets referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement, to be necessary for the timely and efficient execution
of Part B of the Project in the subsequent quarter.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause DNGR and SNAPE to
submit to the Association for review and comments:
(a) not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year the
Project is carried out, prog:ess reports on Project activities
during the previous six-month period;
(b) not later than September 30 of each year the Project is
carried out, budgets and work plans for their respective
operations in the following calendar year, in a form and in such
detail as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause MTTP and MARA to cooperate in the construction and
maintenance of the Borrower's feeder road network; and
(b) transfer the responsibility for construction and
maintenance of said network progressively from MARA to MTTP.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1990, prepare a plan for use of MARA's public works equipment, in
order to determine which equipment shall be transferred to the UME
and the SPTPs.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain the following committees, with such membership and terms
of references as shall be acceptable to the Association:
(a) a Project supervision committee; and
(b) not later than June 30, 1990, a coordinating committee
at the national level and four multi-disciplinary teams at the
regional level, to coordinate implementation of bottomlands
development.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1990, submit to the
Association for review and comment a draft manual of
administrative procedures for DNGR's and SNAPE's financial and
administrative units; and
(b) promptly thereafter finalize said manual and implement
its regulations, taking into account the Associations comments
thereon.


﻿-7-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1990, prepare a national policy on contribution to
the cost of road rehabilitation, and bottomland development by
beneficiaries, which policy shall include evaluation criteria and
minimum levels of such contribution; and
(b) promptly thereafter, collect said contribution from said
beneficiaries at levels satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than June 30, 1991, prepare a national policy
on contribution to the cost of handpumps for boreholes by
beneficiaries of such pumps on the basis of a nationwide study on
willingness and ability to pay for pumps; and
(b) promptly thereafter, collect said contribution from said
beneficiaries at a level satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-8-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's repzesentatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that:
(a) subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the FAC Grant, the USAID
Grant or the KfW Grant, made to the Borrower for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the FAC Grant
Agreement, the USAID Grant Agreement or the KfW Grant Agreement.


﻿-9-
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(c) The FAC Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1990, or the KfW Grant Agreement shall have
failed to become effective by September 30, 1990, or the USAID
Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1990, or such later dates as the Association may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Project Accounts referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (i)
of this Agreement have been opened and the initial deposits
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement have been
made;
(b) the UME and the four BTGRs have been established as
services rattach6s of DNGR, all with such staff, personnel rules
and terms of reference as shall be acceptable to the Association;
(c) the Borrower has established the Project supervision
committee referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement; and


﻿- 10 -
(d) the Borrower has appointed to DNGR the staff set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Economy and Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re de 1'Economie et des Finances
B.P. 579
Conakry
Republic of Guinea
Telex:
22399 MIFI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          82897 (FTCC)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                       1ev            Y
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) DNGR                  6,800,000        100%
(b) SNAPE:
boreholes             2,000,000       97%
(c) SNAPE:
civil works           1,200,000       100%
other than
boreholes
(2) Vehicles, goods
and equipment:
(a) DNGR                  3,900,000        100%
(b) SNAPE                   400,000        100%
(3) Consultants'               8,000,000        100%
services and
training


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  incremental                                100% in the
operating                                  First Year;
costs:                                     80% in the
Second Year;
(a) DNGR                  2,600,000        60% in the
Third Year;
40% in the
(b) SNAPE                   300,000        Fourth Year;
and 20% in
the Fifth Year
(5) Incremental                1,900,000        100% in the
road main-                                 Second Year;
tenance costs                              75% in the
Third Year;
55% in the
Fourth Year;
and 35% in
the Fifth Year
(6) Refunding of               1,100,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                3,100,000
TOTAL                     31,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Incremental operating costs" means
expenditures for DNGR's and SNAPE's current expenses, including
DNGR's expenditures for UME, such as lubricants and fuel for
vehicles, office rental and supplies, travel expenses and
maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment, required for the
Project;


﻿- 14 -
(b) the term "Incremental road maintenance" means
expenditures, including cost of equipment rental, to be incurred
by DNGR and SPTPs for maintenance of the roads rehabilitated under
the Project;
(c) "First Year", "Second Year", "Third Year" and "Fourth
Year" mean the respective twelve-month periods during which the
Project is carried out, starting on the Effective Date and the
first, second and third anniversary of said Effective Date,
respectively; and
(d) "Fifth Year" means the period after the Fourth Year
during which the Project is carried out.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(b) under Category (5) before: (i) two SPTPs have been
established with statutes and equipment acceptable to the
Association; (ii) an equipment renting company acceptable to the
Association has been established; and (iii) the Borrower has
caused MTTP to sign agreements with the SPTPs on the execution of
emergency road maintenance works under Part B.1 of the Project.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads, development of
bottomlands, provision of rural water and sanitation systems,
programming of rural infrastructure activities and testing of new
methods for the construction and. maintenance of rural
infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development
Strengthening of T)NGR's feeder roads construction and
maintenance capacity and of SNAPE's rural water supply capacity
through the construction, renovation and equipping of their
offices and facilities, provision of equipment, training of their
staff and establishment of four BTGRs and two SPTPs.
Part B:   Rural Infrastructure
1.   Rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance of about 2500 km of
feeder roads.
2.   Development of about 2100 ha of bottomland.
3.   Provision of water to about 140 villages through drilling of
about 220 boreholes equipped with handpumps, and construction of
two piped water supply and sanitation systems.
Part C:   Studies and Pilot Programs
1.   Preparation of a Feeder Roads Master Plan to serve as blue-
print to implement further feeder roads investments.
2.   Implementation of a Pilot Feeder Roads Program to develop
labor-based methods for maintenance and rehabilitation of feeder
roads, and to promote emergence of small-and medium-scale
contractors.


﻿- 16 -
3.   Implementation of a pilot bottomland development program.
4.   Studies and pilot actions to define a national strategy for
rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) development including an
RWSS Master Plan for Guinde Foresti&re, a nationwide study on the
willingness and ability to pay for hand pumps, strengthening of
SNAPE's RWSS extension and maintenance activities and a pilot
sanitation program.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more.
3.   Contracts for borehole drilling shall include provision and
installation of handpumps.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic
of Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods and civil works for bottomland development and water
supply, estimated to cost between the equivalents of $50,000 and
$150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,500,000, and civil works for renovation and
construction of regional and prefectural offices estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $800,000 may be


﻿- 18 -
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   The first twenty boreholes to be drilled under Part B.3 of
the Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding between local and foreign borehole
contractors already active in the Republic of Guinea. Contracts
for borehole drilling shall include provision and installation of
hand-pumps.
3.   Goods and civil works for bottomland development, water
supy1111T and renovation of regional and prefectural offices,
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of the comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for computer equipment and
consultants' services, and each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ financial, management, engineering and
rural development consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
List of Key DNGR Staff
-    Officer in charge of programming, monitoring and
evaluation at the Service Technique d'6ppui
-    Counterpart to the expatriate training coordinator
-    4 Chiefs of BTGRs
-    Chief of the UME
-    Officer in charge of environmental aspects of the
Project.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
shall specify; and (ii) prior to or at the time of each such
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
ments and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the


﻿- 22 -
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categorics, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the Geieral Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from


﻿- 23 -
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special. Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall promptly, upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


