Document of
The World Bank    FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ort No. P-3133-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
RADNA ORGANIZACIJA REGIONALNI VODOVOD "BATLAVA" - PRISTIN
(REGIONAL WATERWORKS BATLAVA (RWB) - PRISTINA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF UYGOSLAVIA
FOR A
KOSOVO WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
October 20, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Calendar 1980               August 31, 1981
Currency Unit        Yugoslav Dinar
Ub$l                 Din. 24,9114                 Din. 39.1301
Din. 1               Ub$ 0.040                    US$ 0.026
Din. 1,000           US$ 40.14                    US$ 25.55
Dinar 1,000,000      Ub$ 40,142.00                US$ 25,555.42
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
GWE                -  Gracanka Water Enterprise
OECD               -  Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
OTAM               -  Omnium Technique d'Amenagement
RWB                -  Regional Waterworks Batlava
SAP Kosovo         -  bocialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
SA6                -  Social Accounting Service
bFR Yugoslavia    -  Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
UNDP               -  United Nations Development Programme
WCCIs              -  Water Communities of Common Interest
WHO                -  World Health Organization
RWB's Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA - KOSOVO WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Radna Organizacija Regionalni Vodovod "Batlava"-Pristina.
Regional Waterworks Batlava (RWB).
Guarantor;        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFR Yugoslavia).
Amount:           US$41.0 million, equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:            Amortization of 15 years, including a 3 year grace period
with interest at 11.6% per annum.
Project Description:                The project will alleviate the increasingly
serious water shortage problems in the
communes of Pristina and Podujevo through
reconstruction and augmentation of the
water supply system. The proposed
facilities would provide sufficient water
for the rapidly growing population as well
as for the industries up to 1995. The
project will also strengthen RWB by its
assuming responsibility currently divided
among several communal agencies and also by
developing local capability in the
institutional and financial administration,
engineering, operation and maintenance
aspects with particular emphasis on RWB's
staff assuming responsibility for project
supervision. The project consists of
construction of a pipeline, water treatment
plant, pumping stations, reservoirs and
distribution network for the two communes.
It further includes implementation of a
leak detection program, provision of water
meters and a meter repair facility, and
construction and equipment of a technical
operations building. Technical assistance
will be provided to RWB in supervision of
construction and in preparation of final
designs for sewage collection systems for
Pristina, Kosovo Polje and Obilic, having a
combined population of about 290,000. A
total of 345 man-months of consulting
services at an estimated average cost of
US$7,900 per man-month is required. The
project presents no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                          ---------- US$ Million ---------
Local        Foreign        Total
Water Production and Transmission       14.63          18.34         32.97
Pumping and Reservoirs                   1.07           1.13          2.20
Distribution System                      3.48           1.88          5.36
Land and Buildings                       2.93           1.47          4.40
Operational Equipment                    0.48           3.44          3.92
bubtotal                     22.59          26.26         48.85
Engineering                              1.00           0.11          1.11
Construction Supervision                 0.77           0.86          1.63
Physical Contingencies                   2.93           2.98          5.91
Price Escalation                        11.56           3.79         15.35
Interest and Other Charges on
Bank Loan During Construction           -             7.00          7.00
Total Project Cost           38.85          41.00         79.85
Financing Plan                          ---------- US$ Million ---------
Local        Foreign        Total
IBRD                           -             41.00         41.00
Consumer and other
Contributions               26.22           -            26.22
Local Bank Loans               12.63          -            12.63
Total                    38.85          41.00         79.85
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY        1982     1983        1984       1985
Annual                           13.45    14.31       11.06       2.18
Cumulative                       13.45    27.76       38.82     41.00
Estimated Completion Date; December 31, 1984
Rate of Return:  14%
Staff Appraisal Report; No. 3464a-YU of September 11, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO RADNA ORGANIZACIJA REGIONALNI VODOVOD
"BATLAVA" - PRISTINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$41 million to Radna Organizacija Regionalni Vodovod
"Batlava" - Pristina (Regional Waterworks "Batlava" (RWB) - Pristina) with
the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to finance the
foreign exchange costs of a Kosovo Water Supply Project. The loan would have
a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace with interest at 11.6% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the
Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in
November, 1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Export Performance and
Policies"', 2972-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 5,
1980. In November 1980 an economic mission visited Yugoslavia and its report
entitled "Raising Productivity in Yugoslav Industry: Some Issues", 3383a-YU
was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 3, 1981. Basic data on
the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
evolved over the years with major changes introduced through the Constitution
of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic decisions has been
shifted from the federation to the republics, autonomous provinces and
communes. Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives



over the socially owned means of production has been increased by a
restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of
production producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, recent changes have extended the concept of workers'
management to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called
social compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part of
the system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the
participation of all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy
while maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy implementation.
Since the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these instruments have been used to
augment more conventional monetary and fiscal policy measures in the areas of
prices, incomes, and employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic and
social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the economy.
Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all economic and
social units, including government bodies, on a non-hierarchical basis. An
exhaustive interchange of information and several iterations are required to
achieve consistency among the plans of economic units concurrent with broader
social objectives. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into
legally binding medium-term agreements on supply, demand and investment
intentions. In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date, the
state is permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1979, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1X per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during the
period. Per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated to be US$2,430 at 1979 market
prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the driving
force of the economy with the share of industry in GDP increasing to around 45%
while agriculture has declined to about 12%. The past two decades have also
been associated with the growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world
economy. Between 1960 and 1978 merchandise exports and imports grew by around
6% and 8% per annum in real terms, respectively; much of this was with markets
in the convertible currency areas.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large regional
income disparities persist. The republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and
Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per capita income, and
the autonomous province of Kosovo, with one-third, are officially designated as
less developed regions (LDR). The difference between the most developed
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



region, Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition
to these interregional disparities there are large intraregional disparities
with differences in per capita income between communes as high as 10 to I .
These disparities reflect several factors, notably the greater incidence of
low productivity agriculture in the LDR and their higher dependency ratios
and population growth rates. Since 1971 sizeable concessionary credits
(with about 50% grant element), equal to about 10% of the social product of
the LDR, have been transferred to the LDR through the Federal Fund for the
Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions, which is financed
through a tax on all social sector enterprises in the economy.
8.         Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern
sector. Since 1954 employment in the modern social sector has increased by
around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and income
differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the traditional
(private or individual agricultural) sectors. The persistence of these
differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the working age
population caused by relatively high population growth in the LDR has
further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973, with
changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing added
pressure on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in 1978. 1/ The
incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized, because population and
labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of agricultural
employment, are all much higher in the LDR. In 1978 unemployment rates
ranged from 26.9% in Kosovo to 1.5% in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.         Yugoslavia has been successful in maintaining a relatively high
growth rate over much of its recent (1976-80) economic plan. Over the first
four years of the plan GDP growth exceeded 5% per year. The pattern of
growth has been markedly cyclical and heavily influenced by policy responses
to balance of payments difficulties and to inflation. Following slower
growth in 1976, macroeconomic policy became more expansionary in 1977, which
resulted in three years of rapid growth. This revival at a time when the
world economy was relatively sluggish put pressure on Yugoslavia's balance
of payments.  These strains were considerably worsened by special
developments in 1979 including sharp increases in the price of imported oil,
poor agricultural conditions and an earthquake in Montenegro. As a
consequence the deficit in the current account of the balance of payments
reached $3.7 billion in 1979, or about 5.4% of GDP. Faster growth and
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries. They
represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some currently
employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of registered job
seekers to total resident labor force would have been about 8.3% in 1978.



- 4-
renewed international inflation also led to significant worsening in domestic
inflation. In response to these developments the tone of macro policy became
sharply contractionary in late 1979 and 1980, and economic management in 1980
was dominated by the goal of improving the balance of payments. As a result
ot the purposeful application of a stabilization program the current account
deficit was reduced to $2.3 billion (approximately 3% of GDP), largely
reflecting an improvement in the trade deficit. The elements of the program
(which was supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF) included a 30%
devaluation of the dinar in June 1980, tight monetary policy, effective
incomes policies and targeted cuts in investment, particularly for noneconomic
purposes. As a result of these measures output growth was reduced from
previous years, and gross domestic product in 1980 is estimated to have grown
by about 2%.
10.        The main source of Yugoslavia's economic growth in the 1976-80 plan
was industry. While industrial production rose by only 4% in 1980, this
followed growth of almost 7% per year in the preceding four years. The plan
placed particular emphasis on production of energy, raw materials and
intermediate goods production to increase import substitution. These priority
sectors performed well during the first three years of the plan although
production fell slightly short of planned targets, while nonpriority sectors,
particularly consumer goods, grew at a rate faster than projected. Climatic
factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in agricultural output,
which rose between 1976 and 1980 at an average annual rate of 1.6% (compared
to a target of 4%).
11.        Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5% between
1976 ana 1979, considerably exceeding the 8.0% plan target. The plan's
emphasis on import substitution led to heavy investment in the priority
sectors: energy, mining, metallurgy, electrical machinery and chemicals. The
share of gross fixed investment in GDP rose from 28% in 1975 to almost 32% in
1979. In 1980, however, fixed investment is estimated to have declined by
1.5% in real terms, as a result of increasing restrictions placed on
investment activity, particularly in non-priority fields. In addition to
buoyant domestic demand, strong social pressures on enterprises to create new
work places may have been important in causing the higher than planned level
of investment. Overall social sector employment growth in the plan has been
rapid, at about 4% per annum (compared to a plan target of 3.5%) and has been
even faster in the LDR where the bulk of the structural unemployment is
locatea. Despite these achievements, the combined impact of net immigration,
demographic factors and the contraction in the rural labor force increased the
ratLio of job-seekers to social sector labor force.
12.        Inflation rates have varied widely over the course of the plan.
btabilization measures introduced in 1975 and 1976 reduced the inflation rate
(as measured by the retail price index) from 25% in 1975 to 9% in 1976. The
subsequent revival in economic activity was accompanied by a resurgence of
inflation. In both 1977 and 1978 inflation was 13%; in 1979, in part due to
increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices it increased to 22%. The sharp
reduction in economic activity in 1980 affected the inflation rate much less
than had been hoped, and the rate of inflation was 30%, in contrast to the 17%
that had been projected. Part of the deterioration in price performance can



be attributed to the higher prices of imported goods, resulting from both a
higher rate of international inflation and the effects of the devaluation of
the dinar. There has also been some dismantling of domestic price controls in
order to promote efficient resource allocation in manufacturing as well as
price increases administered to stimulate agricultural production and to
rationalize energy use. As a result of effective incomes policies, wage
pressures were muted in 1980, with real personal incomes in the social sector
falling by 7%. The official target for inflation in 1981 is for a rise in
prices over the year of approximately 32%.  Developments in the first half of
the year were not encouraging, with about 80% of the targeted increase for the
year having occurred by the end of June. Stricter price control measures were
introduced in June in an effort to contain inflation for the year within the
targeted amount. In view of the high inflation rate the dinar has continued
to depreciate against the US dollar over the year, including a relatively
substantial adjustment (of about 15%) in August.
13.        As noted above, Yugoslavia's balance of payments has remained an
issue of concern to policymakers throughout the plan. The plan itself
proposed substantial import substitution while maintaining an export growth
rate of 8%. While import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1980
overall it remained below the 4.5% annual rate targeted in the plan, primarily
by the imposition of deep import cuts in 1976 and 1980. Export performance
however was disappointing; despite a recovery in 1980, when merchandise
exports grew by an estimated 11%, export growth over the plan was about 4.6%
per year instead of the 8% targeted. The consequences of this export
shortfall were exacerbated by the deterioration in the terms of trade and
other special factors referred to earlier. Even though workers' remittances
were more buoyant than had been anticipated, the cumulative current account
deficit over the plan period was 60% higher than had been planned. The
government's program to put the balance of payments on a more secure footing
was supported by a two-year standby arrangement concluded with IMF in June
1980 in the amount of SDR 339 million per year. This standby was replaced in
January 1981 by a three year program for a total amount of SDR 1662 million.
The government's annual plan for 1981 continues to stress stabilization of the
economy in pursuit of balance of payments adjustment. The current account
deficit for 1981 is targeted at $1.8 billion; this is to be achieved through
export growth of 7% and a reduction in import volumes, chiefly in capital
goods. Social product is anticipated to grow by 3%; this slow growth will be
reconciled with the export target by further cuts in fixed capital formation.
Medium Term Prospects
14.        The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981.
The plan projects continued slow growth in social product and even slower
growth in domestic expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports;
this strategy also implies continued reductions in the rate of fixed capital
formation. As before, the plan projects simultaneous import substitution and
export promotion. It aims to reduce the current account deficit from the
present 3% of GDP to approximately 1% by 1985. The priorities stressed are
the development of domestic energy sources and raw materials, production of
basic metals, basic chemicals and capital goods. The plan also stresses
agricultural development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food
exports.



- 6 -
15.        Slower growth will make it more difficult for the s6cial sector to
generate additional employment at the pace of the past plan while the demand
for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties, more emphasis
is being laid on the development of labor intensive activities including
small-scale enterprises.
16.        Finally, the reduction of regional disparities remains a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
republics will play an important role in this process, and the transfer
mechanisms for the plan lay particular stress on encouraging social sector
enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make direct investments in
the LDR. As experlence is gained, these joint ventures could make a
significant contribution to the overall efficiency of production within the
LDRs by facilitating the transfer of technological and managerial knowhow
within Yugoslavia. Regional disparities, however, are expected to remain
significant over the medium-term.
Creditworthiness
17.        Gross medium- and long-term capital inflows averaged $2.5 billion
between 1976 and 1979 and increased to an estimated $3.5 billion in 1980.
Total medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated at
about $15.6 billion at the end of 1980 while short-term debt at the end of
1980 stood at about $1.4 billion.   Foreign reserves fell by $1.2 billion in
1979 and at the end of that year amounted to $2.5 billion of which official
foreign exchange was $1.2 billion. There was some restocking of official
foreign exchange reserves in 1980, and at the end of the year these amounted
to $1.4 billion, or roughly one month of imports of goods and services from
the convertible currency area. It is expected that the resources provided by
the Fund will permit Yugoslavia to retire some of its short-term debt, and to
build up official foreign exchange reserves.
18.        About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in recent
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial sources.
The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of suppliers'
credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the eurocurrency market
have become increasingly important for financing the economy's foreign
exchange requirements.  The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances the debt
service ratio on aggregate medium- and long-term debt averaged 15% between
1976 and 1979, while the debt service ratio in convertible currencies averaged
17% over the same period. The aggregate debt service ratio is not expected to
increase substantially during the next medium term plan (1981-85). Given
Yugoslavia's past debt service record, pragmatism and its demonstrated
capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when these are called for,
it remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.        The proposed project would be the 70th operation by the Bank in
Yugoslavia totalling about $3,054 million. Of this, approximately 41%
($1,248.4 million) has been for 23 operations in the transportation sector --
12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline and
an oil pipeline, and two for a port project. Historically, Bank lending has
concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation
loans, tive power loans, one telecommunications loan, two water supply and
sewerage ana three multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial
irrigation components). In recent years, Bank lending has increasingly
focussed on the agriculture sector for which it has made 12 loans totalling
$737 million (about 24% of the total). Twenty loans amounting to $410 million
(about 13% of the total) have also been made for industry. Two loans have
been made for tourism and the first Bank loan for air pollution control was
approved in 1976. In addition, IFC has made fifteen investments in Yugoslavia
totalling about $302 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IFC investments as of August 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
20.        The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i)   to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(1)   to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic
infrastructure and credit facilities;
(Iii)   to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors by
improving coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv)   to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic
infrastructure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v)   to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term
capital, encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to
tap other sources of medium- and long-term capital, and
supporting projects which generate or conserve foreign
exchange.
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the Report
and kecommenaation of the President for the Macedonia III - Agricultural
Development Project (Report No. P-3100-YU) of June 23, 1981.



-8-
21.        It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address
all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the less developed
regions (LDR), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development of the LDR and the agricultural
sector in particular. Reinforcing this strategy are the economic surveys of
the four LDR undertaken by the Bank and intensified Bank assistance in
project formulation and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
22.        The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in the
1976-80 Development Plan and in the draft 1981-85 Development Plan. In the
last plan period, the Federal Government agreed with its constituents on the
level of domestic resources to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal
Fund mechanism (para. 7) as well as the distribution of external resources
including Bank lending. The distribution pattern of Bank lending was
determined broadly on the basis of income levels and population size of
particular regions.
23.        Over the past five years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has
been to the LDR through operations for transportation, power, agricultural
development and industrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank
lending to the LDR through similar operations is expected to continue but
with even more emphasis on agriculture which deserves attention for a number
of development considerations (paras. 28, 30-32). Special attention will be
given to the needs of Kosovo, the least developed of the LDR.
24.        Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
Constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to
revamp the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for
coordination. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para. 5), the
process of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome. The Bank
has therefore seen it important to exert its influence in shaping the policy
framework and fostering coordination, particularly in the transport and
energy sectors where significant progress has been achieved.
25.        Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the banks will remain
a major objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought
through the implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user
studies undertaken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU
approved March 15, 1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations
in areas where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination
impact has most potential.
26.        A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has



- 9 -
become a significant vehicle for attracting additional sources of credit
through cofinancing arrangements, forging new banking relationships for
Yugoslavia and in some cases securing improved terms and conditions of
commercial loans. The Bank, however, remains the major source of long-term
external capital for the foreseeable future and, equally important, its
significant level of operations in Yugoslavia is regarded by foreign
financiers as evidence of confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance,
policies and prospects. While an increase in cofinancing on Bank projects is
desirable, both the projects and sub-projects involved must be suitable for
cofinancing given the complex system of management in general and the banking
and foreign exchange allocation systems in particular.
27.        Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 8.7% of
Yugoslavia's total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected
to remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt
service was 6.5% in 1980 and is projected to be about 5% by 1985.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
28.        In the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo (SAP Kosovo) about
45% of the community water supplies utilize surface water sources, about 35%
obtain their water from springs, and the remaining 20% abstract water from
locally situated wells. The water courses of SAP Kosovo flow into the
Adriatic bea, the Aegean Sea and the Black Sea; and it is within the
catchment area of the Sitnica River which flows into the Black Sea that the
communes of Pristina and Podujevo are principally located and the proposed
project is situated.
29.        The existing source of surface water for Pristina is the Gracanka
Reservoir (about 7 km southeast of the community) which has been in service
since 1966 supplying the community as well as the ore flotation plant at
Kisnica. Live storage is about 21 MCM. The catchment area above the dam is
about 114 km2, and average annual rainfall in the area is approximately
640-800 mm per year. The only other substantial surface source presently
suitable tor use by the Pristina and Podujevo areas is the existing Batlava
Reservoir which is located about 10 km southeast of the town of Podujevo,
with a catchment area of about 224 km2 and a live storage capacity of about
29 MCM. Prior to the initiation of the proposed Bank project, the reservoir
was used only to supply Kombinat Kosovo 'A' near Obilic.
30.        Groundwater and spring development in the Pristina service area
has been limited due to relatively low yields of wells. Two well fields, one
at Kuzmin and the other at Kojlovica, yield approximately 120 1/sec and 50
I/sec respectively. However, the number of wells (nine in the Kuzmin well
field and five in the Kojlovica well field) indicate low individual well
yields, and a similar situation exists with the two Podujevo wells.



- 10 -
Sector Organization
31.        Development and utilization of water resources in SFR Yugoslavia
occurs primarily at the Republic and Provincial level. The general pattern
is to supply and distribute water to urban domestic, commercial and
industrial users through self-managed enterprises, usually designated as
"Vodovods" (waterworks). These financially autonomous enterprises operate
under Yugoslavia's normal self-management principles, but are, however,
subject to control by the Communes regarding their investment programs and
tariffs. Usually for each commune, a Vodovod exists which develops a single
water source. However, as limited local sources become fully exploited,
Vodovods and communes seek to develop more distant water sources; and
self-management agreements with other communes and Vodovods become necessary
leading to the formation of "Water Communities of Common Interest" (WCCIs) in
order to develop joint supplies.
32.        In addition to Vodovods, another type of water authority, the
water economy enterprise (e.g., Ibar Lepenac Enterprise) has responsibility
for river management, flood control, and, occasionally, acts as an investor
for the construction of water supply and irrigation projects.
33.        "Water Funds" in each Republic and Province were in existence up
until a few years ago, financed principally by Government allocations, local
water taxes, and voluntary contributions pledged through referenda. The
Water Funds have now been superseded by the WCCIs. Although the WCCIs derive
some capital from Government taxation and grants, they depend to a great
degree on locally raised finances; and although established at the Province
and Republic levels, they generally serve in a coordinating role. At the
regional and communal levels, WCCIs deal with specific problems, taking prime
responsibility for the substantive work in water development.
34.        The "Vodovod" which would be the beneficiary of the proposed loan
is the Regional Waterworks Batlava (RWB), which is responsible for water
supply and sewerage services in the communes of Pristina and Podujevo. RWB
is the successor to the former Gracanka Water Enterprise (GWE) from which, in
January 1981, it acquired all existing staff, assets and liabilities.
bimilarly, when the new Batlava waterworks comes on stream it will take over
the Podujevo Commune water supply facility.
35.        RWB's highest decision making body is the Workers' Council,
selected by the Assembly of Workers. This council maintains two advisory
Commisions: Employment and Discipline, and also elects the Executive Board
of the Enterprise. The Board in turn appoints the General Manager who
actually runs the Enterprise.
36.        Three departments report to the General Manager:  Technical,
Administrative and Investment. The Technical Department is responsible for
operation and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage facilities, minor
network extensions and repairs, water meter calibration and repair, mapping
of the water and sewerage systems, and for workshops and transport vehicles.
The Administrative Department is responsible for the personnel, legal,
commercial, financial and accounting functions. The Investment Department



- 11 -
prepares medium and long-range plans and oversees execution of major
projects. It is estimated that the increased activities resulting from the
proposed project will require about 100 additional staff, representing an
increase of about 40% over the current level of 240 regular and 25 temporary
employees. RWB has agreed to continue to assign one of its staff as Training
Coordinator and submit to the Bank for its comments no later than March 31,
1982, a staff training program covering the project implementation period
which it will then carry out (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
bector btrategy
37.        The SAP Kosovo Five-Year Plan (1981-1985), now in the final stages
of approval, gives special attention to water resources utilization,
including community water supplies, irrigation, and industrial water with
emphasis on construction and rehabilitation of water systems.
38.        The communes of Pristina and Podujevo having decided that the
provision of potable water and sanitation services is of high priority, the
next Communal Five Year Plan (1981-1985) also emphasizes the need for urgent
measures to be taken to meet the water supply and sewerage requirements in
the project area. Since the proposed project is regional in nature
coordination between commune and Province planning is in progress. The
Regional Physical Plan for Kosovo Province, prepared in December 1976 and
approved by all the Communal Councils of the region, includes the proposed
project. Similarly, the Assembly of SAP Kosovo includes this project in its
Provincial Physical Plan (June 1975), as part of a regional solution to water
supply problems in the Province.
39.        The proposed project represents the first element of a regional
strategy aimed at solving the water supply problems in SAP Kosovo. Future
extension of service to the Province's rural communities contiguous to the
project facilities is under consideration as a subsequent stage of
development. Additionally, the proposed project has been studied in
consonance with the execution of the Ibar Multipurpose Project and with the
proposed Kosovo Irrigation Project.
Previous Bank Lending in the Sector
40.        The Bank has played a continuing role in the development of the
Yugoslav water and sewerage sector. Under the Morava Region Development
Project (Loan 1262-YU) the need for orderly allocation and utilization of
water resources was emphasized. Additionally, the Bank has, both in its
financial support and in the promotion of institution building, furthered
water supply ano sewerage development through the following Projects:
Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater (Loan 1066-YU); Sarajevo Water Supply
and Sewerage (Loan 1263-YU); and the multipurpose projects for Ibar (Loan
777-YU), Metohija (Loan 1360-YU) and Macedonia (Loan 1371-YU). The
multipurpose projects include water supply, irrigation and power generation
elements. No OED Project Evaluation Report has been prepared in respect of
any of these projects.



- 12 -
Bank Strategy
41.        Through its lending to the sector the Bank assists the Government
of Yugoslavia in meeting basic needs, in lessening the possibility of disease
outbreak, and in ensuring judicious selection, preparation, and design of
priority projects. The Bank will continue to play a key role in
institutional development in the proposed project, a principal objective
being the strengthening of the newly established regional water and sewerage
authority (RWB) to assume responsibility for planning, construction,
maintenance and operation of the system.
Project Area
42.        The Commune of Pristina is situated in the central part of SAP
Kosovo and consists of 94 communities including the city of Pristina, the
administrative and cultural center of the Province. The town area is
situated on the lower western slopes of the Grmija Hills, the promontories of
which interrupt the terrain relief of the built-up area. The topography of
the city opens towards Kosovo Polje, 7 km to the south-west, and the
industrialized zone of Pristina extends in this direction. The developed
area of the community of Kosovo Polje is generally concentrated along a
principal road traversing level terrain, about 7 km northwest of Pristina,
and the anticipated future growth of this town is projected symmetrically
along this road. Obilic is located northwest of Pristina and has also
developed along the main artery between the two communities. The town of
Podujevo, the administrative center of the Commune of the same name, is
situated approximately 30 km north of Pristina in an area called Malo Kosovo
(small Kosovo) in the Lab River valley.
43.        The industrial enterprises within the city of Pristina occupy a
relatively small area, which is reflected in the present relatively low
industrial water demand. Industrial plants are generally located in the
suburban area towards Kosovo Polje. These include plants for production of
synthetic fabrics, wall paper and shock absorbers, as well as food
processing, bakery, and fodder producing industries. Expansion plans for all
these industries are in various stages of implementation. South of the
community of Obilic there is the Kombinat Kosovo 'A' which processes lignite
from open-cast mines, produces gas and synthetic fertilisers and operates a
power plant. At present Kombinat Kosovo 'B' is under construction northwest
of Obilic with a greater capacity than the power plant at Kombinat Kosovo
'A'. The only major industry in the town of Podujevo is a wood product
enterprise. However, a new factory for brick and tile production, an
enterprise for production of radio components and a spinning mill are
envisaged by 1985.
Water Systems
44.        The Pristina area, including the towns of Kosovo Polje and Obilic,
is presently principally supplied from the Gracanka Reservoir and to a lesser
degree from the Kuzmin well field. From the Gracanka Reservoir a 784 m long
pipeline also supplies raw water (about 90 1/sec average) for flotation in an
ore-dressing plant at Kisnica. The pumping station lifts a flow of 320 I/sec



- 13 -
to a water treatment plant consisting of spray aeration, pre-chlorination,
coagulation, settling, rapid sand filtration and post-chlorination. From the
treatment plant, water flows through a gravity transmission main about 7 km
to the Maticane Reservoir in Pristina. From the Maticane Reservoir, water is
supplied through the Pristina distribution system to the Dragodan Reservoir
and to the Kasagija Reservoir.
45.        Although the Pristina distribution system lies in an elevation
range of 550-700 m.a.s.l., it is not divided into pressure zones. The total
length of distribution lines is approximately 60 km, including
asbescos-cement and cast-iron pipes of 80 mm to 500 mm diameter and about 10
km of smaller diameter pipes. The system has been extended indiscriminately
with resultant pressure problems. In the older sections of Pristina and the
central area of the city, the system is undersized.
46.        A 200 mm diameter transmission line from Dragodan Reservoir serves
the Kosovo Polje area. Although the flat terrain of the built up area,
ranging from 540 to 560 m.a.s.l., does not require division into pressure
zones, the high hydrostatic pressure in the system creates problems. The
total length of water main is over 20 km, and the diameters range from 50 mm
to 200 mm. In addition to Kosovo Polje the transmission main also supplies
Obilic and several smaller communities, comprising about 33 km of water mains
in all. The Kuzmin well field is connected into the Kosovo Polje system
through a 200 mm diameter line.
47.        In Podujevo two pumping stations above the two wells discharge the
water directly into the distribution network. Sodium hypochlorite dosing is
utilized for disinfection. The distribution system, built in a haphazard
fashion, consists of about 5 km of steel pipes with only about 1-1 1/2 km of
lines of 150 mm and 200 mm diameter; and the remainder of smaller diameters.
48.        Because the production meter at the Gracanka (Kisnica) water
treatment plant is inoperative, and none exists in the distribution system,
data on water produced can only be estimated. RWB and its consultants have,
in lieu of metering, estimated production based on filter runs and pump
characteristics including electric power consumption. These estimates are,
therefore, ornly very approximate. The consultants who prepared the
feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for the proposed project
(Hydroprojekt, Praha) and those engaged in the execution of the final designs
(Energoprojekt, Beograd) have agreed on an estimated figure of 30% for
unaccounted for water. In the proposed project provision has been made for
the acquisition of leak detection equipment and the institution by March 31,
1982 of a preventive maintenance program which will help reduce the level of
unaccounted-for water (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03 (b)).
bewerage Systems
49.        Collection and treatment of sewage in the Province has not
developed to the degree required to satisfactorily solve waste disposal
problems. In Pristina about 55% of the inhabitants are served with a
sanitary sewerage network. A surface drainage system has been constructed in
the central area of the town. In other areas during periods of heavy rains,



- 14 -
eroded clay soil and refuse which has accumulated in the open space between
buildings and along the roads are washed into the streets and into the main
watercourse, the Pristevka River, which meanders through the town, rendering
it an unsanitary open sewer. In 1967, a sewage treatment plant was
constructed for Pristina downstream from the city. The plant has not been
connected to the sanitary sewer system and has never been operated. All
mechanical equipment has been removed, and the remaining structures have
deteriorated considerably. Because the plant is situated near the city,
placing it into operation would not be warranted, even if renovation could be
technically and economically feasible. In Podujevo, the main area of the
town is served by sanitary sewerage. A sewage treatment plant has been
designed, but has not been built.  Of the industrial plants in the project
area only the food processing plant at Kosovo Polje has complete waste
treatment, utilizing a mechanical treatment plant. At Kombinat Kosovo, two
biological treatment plants have been built, but they are only in partial
operation.
50.        RWB is proceeding with a proposed program for sewage collection
and treatment for the communities of Pristina, Obilic and Kosovo Polje
including Kombinat Kosovo. Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering,
completed in 1979 by Hydroprojekt, Praha, recommend a central wastewater
treatment plant at Dobri Dub which could also handle sludge pumped from a
large pig feeding complex at Gornje Dobrevo. The proposed Bank project
provides financing for the foreign exchange element of the final designs for
these planned collection systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
51.        The proposed project, summarized in the Loan and Project Summary
at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the report titled
"Staff Appraisal Report of the Kosovo Water Supply Project", Report No.
3464a-YU daced September 11, 1981 was appraised by a Bank mission which
visited Yugoslavia in January 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in
June 1981. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Xhemshit Duriqi, Secretary
for Finance, Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo and included
representatives of RWB.  Annex III summarizes key events leading to Board
presentation and also notes the special conditions provided for in the Loan
Agreement.
Project Genesis and History
52.        Following a request in 1971 from the government of SFR Yugoslavia
to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), feasibility studies and
preliminary engineering documentation for a community water supply, waste
disposal and pollution control project for SAP Kosovo were initiated.
Czechoslovakian consultants (Hydroprojekt, Praha) retained by the executing
agency, the World Health Organization (WHO), in 1973 prepared technical and
organization reports covering the Communes of Pristina and Podujevo which
were completed by December 1976.  In May 1979, dry season water shortages



- 15 -
in Pristina reached a crisis level to the extent that the Pristina Communal
Executive Council decreed that water could be used legally for drinking and
personal hygiene only. Bank assistance was requested by the Provincial
Government of Kosovo in February 1980.
Project Objectives
53.        The basic objective of the project is the alleviation of the
increasingly serious water shortage problems in the Pristina and Podujevo
areas and the substitution of costly consequential emergency measures with
reliable permanent facilities. The proposed new and improved facilities
t        would have sufficient capacity to meet the maximum day demand up to 1995.
Through the rehabilitation and leakage control elements of the project, the
unaccounted-for water level would be reduced to about 20% from 1987 onwards.
Another important objective would be the strengthening of the regional water
supply and wastewater disposal authority which will assume responsibility for
these services, replacing the existing structure wherein the responsibility
is divided among several communal agencies.
Project Scope
54.        The project includes the construction of reservoir intakes, a
water treatment plant, pumping stations, transmission lines, reservoirs, and
improvement and expansion of existing water distribution networks. The
project also includes the provision of water meters and a meter repair
facility as well as construction and equipment of a technical operations
building for RWB, and the implementation of a leak detection program. The
technical assistance element in the project will comprise about 345
man-months of consulting engineering services for water supply construction
supervision and the preparation of final designs of sewage collection systems
for Pristina, Kosovo Polje and Obilic.
Project Implementation
55.        RIB will be responsible for the execution of the project.
Although it is already a relatively effective organization, with its
Investment Department playing an increasing role in construction supervision,
XWB will retain engineering consultants under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank to assist in project supervision and in sewerage design (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02). RWB has consultants engaged in the preparation of
final designs and tenders for the water supply elements, with completion of
this documentation expected during the last half of 1981. It is estimated
that the increased activities which will result from the proposed project
will require about 100 additional staff.  RWB management has concurred with
the view that training activities should be promoted and has agreed to
furnish to the Bank by March 31, 1982 for its review a training program for
developing and enhancing the skills of its supervisory and other staff. It
is expected that all components of the project will be completed by December
31, 1984.



- 16 -
Project Costs and Financing
56.        Total project cost is estimated at US$79.85 million and the
proposed bank loan of Ub$41.0 million would cover the estimated foreign
exchange cost including interest and other charges ($7.0 million) on the
proposed bank loan during the construction period. The balance of US$38.85
million equivalent would be financed by voluntary contributions, local bank
loans and internal cash generation. Cost estimates are based on actual
construction prices prevailing on similar large scale (500 lps to 2,000 lps)
water supply projects in Yugoslavia as of January 1981. To provide for price
escalation during project execution expenditures for foreign goods were
escalated at an annual rate of 10% for 1981, 9% for 1982 and 8% for 1983 and
1984. Local expenditures were escalated at annual rates of 25% for 1981, 20%
for 1982, 18% for 1983 and 15% for 1984. The mid-January 1981 exchange rate
of US$1.00 = Din. 28.5 has been utilized. An estimated 140 man-months of
consulting services is required for the preparation of sewerage system
designs and tender documentation. The estimated cost of these services,
including salaries, fees, travel and subsistence is US$1.11 million, an
average of Ub$7,900 per man-month. Additionally, an estimated 205 man-months
of consulting services will be utilized for construction supervision and
further developing RWB expertise in this field. For those services,
estimated at the same rate, the cost is US$1.62 million.
Lending Arrangement
57.        The proposed loan would be made to RWB for a period of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, and guaranteed by the Federal Government.
Procurement
58.        Equipment and materials contracts estimated to cost more than
Ub$200,000 and civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000
would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines, with domestic suppliers being accorded a
margin of preference of 15% or customs duties, whichever is lower. Other
equipment supply and civil works contracts will be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, up to an aggregate of $1 million for
goods and $2.5 million for civil works. Minor works, such as replacement of
service connections and addition and renovations to existing water supply
network may be carried out by RWB under force account, up to the value in
aggregate not exceeding US$4.5 million. Contracts for the supply of pipes
and for construction of the main transmission line have been awarded to
Yugoslav suppliers following international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines.
Disbursement
59.        The proposed loan would be disbursed over a three and a half year
period against 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures on
materials and equipment required; 35% of expenditures for civil works and
consulting services representing the estimated foreign exchange component;
amounts due for interest and charges during construction up to $7 million.



- 17 -
In view of the urgent need to award contracts for civil works and pipes to
permit work to commence before the winter season, disbursements from the Loan
Account, not to exceed $6 million, would be permitted in respect of
expenditures made afuer July 1, 1981 in respect of civil works and
equipment. (Loan Agreement Schedule 1, paragraph 4).
RXB's Finances, Tariffs and Future Performance
60.        RWB's revenues are mainly derived from monthly water and sewerage
charges augmented by the small but lucrative construction activities it has
undertaken for business enterprises in Pristina. In the years 1978-1980,
this accounted for about 20% of its total revenues and has to a degree
subsidized the water supply operation.  Although in the past few years RWB
has shown some small profits, the inadequacy of its internally generated
funds combined with its inability to borrow sufficient funds has made it
difficult to operate and maintain its existing systems and expand its
services to meet the rapidly growing demand.
61.        kWB's requests for tariff increases are subject to communal
approval. Its present tariffs are low even by Yugoslavian standards. The
proposed project represents a ten-fold increase in RWB's fixed assets and to
finance this large investment, the citizens of Pristina have overwhelmingly
voted to contribute 2% of their salaries for five years (1981-1985) to RWB.
Similarly, the Workers' Council of the Organizations of Associated Labor
within the Commune have also voted'to contribute a percentage of their income
for a five year period (1981-1985) towards financing this project. An
estimate of these contributions, which will be non-refundable is as follows;
------Millions-----
Dinar              US$
Voluntary Contributions:
- citizens (1981-1985)               750.0              26.3
- organizations of associated
labor (1981-1985)               660.0               23.1
TOTAL                             1,410.0               49.4
62.        Since these contributions will be made over a period of five
years, while the project execution period is only through 1984, RWB will have
to borrow short term from local banks to cover the financing gap during the
period of project construction. As a condition of effectiveness for the
proposed loan RWB will enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank with
Udruzena Kosovska Banka, Pristina for the provision of additional funds as
and when needed for carrying out the project (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
63.        The volume of water sold by RWB is expected to double during
1980-1987. In order to operate and maintain its system properly as well as
to maintain its financial viability, RWB will require substantial tariff
increases. Tariff increases amounting to 40% for 1981 were put into effect
on July 1, 1981. Future tariff increases required to meet its financial



- 18 -
objectives will amount to a five-fold increase in nominal terms and about a
three-fold increase in real terms by 1987. These tariff increases combined
with the growth in volume of sales will multiply revenues by a factor of
eight. In the same period, operating expenses including depreciation would
increase only about six times, leaving a margin which combined with the
voluntary contributions (see paragraph 61) would be sufficient to meet RWB's
obligations. RWB has agreed that beginning in 1982 and in each year
thereafter, RWB will take measures, including but not limited to adjustment
of tariffs which combined with the voluntary contributions will provide for:
(W) expenses of operation and maintenance; (ii) depreciation or debt service,
whichever is higher; and (iii) adequate working capital (Loan Agreement
Section 5.04 (a)). RWB has also agreed not to incur any debt, other than
those specified for the purposes of this project, unless a reasonable
forecast of its net revenues, including voluntary contributions shall be not
less than 1.5 times its debt service in any future years, including debt
service on the amount to be borrowed (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 (c)). As
an aid in attaining the technical, financial and administrative goals set for
RWB operations, RWB will monitor their results in accordance with selected
criteria and furnish a report to the Bank annually throughout the
implementation of the project and for five years thereafter (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.06 and Schedule 5).
Accounts and Auditing
64.        RWB would maintain separate accounts in respect of its
construction activities (paragraph 60) in order to provide realistic
financial results of its water supply and sewerage services (Loan Agreement,
bection 5.01 ta)). The accounts would be audited annually by the Social
Accounting Service (SAS) in accordance with generally accepted international
auditing standards. Audited statements would be submitted to the Bank
annually within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Impact of the Project
65.        The project will significantly improve the existing environmental
conditions in the project area by providing adequate quantities of safe water
to a larger number of persons in an expanded service area. One of the
elements of the proposed project is the preparation of final designs for the
construction of an adequate wastewater disposal system. When constructed,
this would further improve the ambiance of the project area.
Benefits and Risks
66.        The principal justification of the proposed project is the need to
provide Pristina, Obilic, Kosovo Polje and Podujevo, having a combined
population of about 290,000, with adequate quantities of safe water. The
improved health, social and economic well-being of the population will also
add to the benefits derived from this project. These benefits, however,
cannot be meaningfully quantified. If the project revenues from incremental
water sales and voluntary contributions which the consumers have undertaken
to pay are taken as a minimum measure of the benefits accruing from the
project, the internal rate of return would be 14.2%. At a discount rate of



- 19 -
10%, the proposed future tariffs combined with the voluntary contributions
compares favorably with the average long term incremental cost of water and
further reinforces both the economic and social justification of the proposed
project.
67.        Sensitivity analysis of the rate of return shows that it is
moderately sensitive to increases in costs and reduction in benefits. An
increase in costs of 10% would give a return of 11.0%.  Conversely, a
reduction of 10% in benetits accruing from water sales would still result in
a 12.7% race of return.
68.        The risks of not achieving the organizational, technical or
financial objectives of the project are minimal. The management and staff
have demonstrated their capability to meet the growing responsibilities. The
formation of the Investment Department combined with the assistance of
engineering consultants will ensure proper execution of the project
construction. The willingness of consumers to pay for water supply is
readily evident.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Radna Organizacija
Regionalni Vodovod "Batlava"-Pristina, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
70.        Features of special interest are described in paragraph 63 and
Section III of Annex III of this Report. A special condition of
effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01) is that
RWB has entered into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank with Udruzena
Kosovska Banka, Pristina, for the provision of additional funds as and when
needed for the carrying out of the Project (referred to in para. 62 of this
report).
71.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
October 20, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                                     ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                       Page  I  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (ThOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 -  HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             255.8                                       HOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
ACRICULLTURAL     142.8                  1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE              NARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      370.0        830.0    2430.0                    2609.1                    9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRANS OG  COAL EQUIVALENT)         875.1       1554.3    2440.3                   2368.4                     7896.6
PUPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (SHOLSANDS)    18402.0        20371.0   22139.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    27.9           34.8       41.5                    53.2                       76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2065                           ,
PO:ULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K.'i.                          71.9         79.6       86.5                    80.6                      142.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         124.0        139.0      153.7                   133.9                      523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              30.5         27.4       24.8                    30.1                       22.8
15-64 YRS.                              63.2         64.8      66.3                     61.5                       65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        6.3          7.8       8.8                      8.3                       11.6
PVPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCEN1)
TOTAL                                   1.2          1.0        0.9                     1.5                        0.8
URBAN                                   3.6          3.2        2.9                     3.1                        1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          23.2         18.8       17.5                    22.9                       14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           9.8          9.0        8.5                     9.1                        9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   1.4          1.3        1.1                     1.6                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)         ..         59.0         .
FOOD ANU NUTRITION
INDEX UF iOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               85.0         93.0     117.0                    119.8                      112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                       125.0       130.0      136.0                    125.7                     131.4
PROTEINS (GRAiS PER DAY)               93.0         93.0     101.0                     92.5                       98.1
OF WHICil ANIJiAL AND PULSE          28.0         32.0      39.0                     39.7                       62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MfORTALITY RATE          5.0          2.6        1.5                     3.4                        0.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         63.2         66.9       70.3                    68.9                       73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THiOUSAND)                               87.7         55.5      33.6                     25.2                       12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         33.6
UR8AN                                  42.4         62.0
RURAL                                    ..         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
POPULAIION PER PiYSICLAN               1616.0       1000.0     762.4                    973.3                      621.2
POPULATION PUR NURSING PERSON          1350.0/c      410.0     409.0                    896.6                      217.4
POPULATION PLR HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 200.0        179.0     166.0                    262.3                      119.4
URBAN                                    ..         70.0     101.6                    191.8                      120.9
RURAL                                    ..       1610.0    1836.9
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         17.0       18.2                    18.2                       17.9
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEliOLD
TOTAL                                   4.0          3.8       3.8
URBAN                                   3.3          3.2       3.3
RURAL                                   4.4          4.3       4.1
AVERAGE NU.BER OF PERSONS PER ROOi
TOTAL                                   1.6          1.4
URBAN                                   1.7          1.3
RURAL                                   1.5          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  54.5         87.9
URkb,N                                 92.7         98.4
RURAL                                  36.1         80.1



- 21 -                                             ANNEX I
TASLE 3A                                               Page  2  of  6
YUGOSLAV.A - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED Al~AE
-  .YOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    ;970 /b ESTIMATE /b               ELTROPE            MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
AD 'US.ED ENROLLYENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 111.0       106.0       99.0                   105.9                      99.6
MALE                 113.0        108.0     100.0                    109.6                    102.1
FEMALE               108.0        103.0      98.0                    102.2                    101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  58.0        69.0       82.0                    66.3                      89.3
MALE                  63.0         78.0      86.0                     73.2                     83.3
FEMtALE               53.0        58.0       78.0                     59.5                     85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    ..          26.0       21.0                     28.4                     18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMLARY                            33.0        27.0       25.0                    26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                           13.0        22.0       19.0                    23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         77.0        83.5       S5.0                     75.4                     98.9
CONSUltPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0        35.4       88.5                    83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          84.9       165.5      209.1                   181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4        88.2      170.2                   131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0        85.3       95.9                   123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0           4.0        3.4                      5.7                      4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8302.0      8837.6/d  9381.7/d
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    35.0        35.9       36 .0                   32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               63.0        51.0       30.9                    34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0        23.0       32.9                    28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 45.1        43.4       42.4                    42.3                      45.7
MALE                                  60.0        56.6       55.0                    56.5                      58.9
FEMALE                                30.9        30.6       30.1                    28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.8       0.8                     0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/e        15.1/f    13.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.57?        41.47?    38.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/e         6.6/f      6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e        18.4/f    18.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      430.0                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Noc applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962; /d Including nigrants workers abroad; /e 1963; /f 1968.
May, 1981



-22 -                                                                              ANNrLEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEF1MIMlOMS OI SOCILU  fiOtlAfOt
S9fli  Alabregh the date are dri-e  frot.sur    geratally jodgad the atas tuthoitetin-  end rlal,O   hcd5c   eOtdoa   benyoth    tn
dati-eely  eetb1eieeeo   h   ebo  enan                       "dtsiiof usttttnt     .5A rrrnerse  -sd by dIfeenkcunrist0  oleol.g  ut  dan.   the ban  ert. tne
stales, amadol etreconie oodra of  manatd,, lad i.a.. t-ede, and  ltrettiies crtain.010?ttrhenecce
Oh.  eesaegouPs era  (1) tbe eas  conty artoy of nhg eubjact  __nty  _td (2 anrnytopot   oeds   Ohtetaticnotooc.tt    r.
ofsh  sbjeo dt btmy  (eae.. fr C tetE-            Sorplee ttl Leporteec- actor  hbee "Middle  AuneMeb   l  ned Mddle tEat-' nenoen   ecot-                         o
Meal- ofoU-al  -aft  area oo7o gladte    afilroenr.ubr  and roraIdnith                                                              bynhs   nrpclos numberll of hopia  bd
d.iutrd-fnimat  of          .-f ag Iotrlare  noe.f praiyo   eraetl                           ealbeI p.h.I.en (..hI   rnro -en  -tnulte   bontti ad-
ouaa    i Eaantreoeaod aWrl  bethff           atlas 1(7-ohet) 1A6..                           end a- dlral yannsrr  nod  ennn  ynctr    yorci too ...us todr
1970, ea  979 amne,                                                                         ardnal aesitnert ,norao,-n  faths.ePI         onic   rOOst  n-rat bet sooer
Ud by s-   ,.d -  w.f1d                                                                                                      h-~~~~~oo   heprlsniiddbyth  noaronbae
Mane IC   =ao  noa.o h,ee                                                                                                                I-orec  ndc WOrshl)-ine,obr  anpd none
rbaa tmrinr   oeete   oe    -tnoo   rarooe    ooaic                                                   nrhtfooin  ofd-'    o- aIfo  onl nnh       aol   i    hut100   u
differeen  dftoisiora o  orbat arr    - say  ttai   19n6a0.tn   o   an s1r9t7rInmea   0 hcerder . or  Ioe  tay rrI                                           I rt-rIrodd r
argtettrec;i9i,   70,an  199  An. ofr bootehe1d6for1sn0nboncoe979                                                             tynmat.
ins  ife  iooeo1960  an0hlmnd 1979sa   mink.                                                     h.nora  a  -ynoOnceIdecn   f -rrnicCeratc WOPoelia    -cnnoce.ed  oa
p   tleml  mafml lIf  em petoenn PnbI            itgat7.  yaa.   hyen-Cnnntaa.ollneodbrrrrntyi    ot   uatr
stnstrfriiyrn  let han  three levlst -ean   de-tiret,  in                               r.i tnlgubn  and.. toaldrlieeymcnry
aeb torfse   t         te   it thea aeeigoed out tt, thre  tOn  oobinenou    of motalit        niCu710M
scat faen litcynad   -rr reo .ni      h                                ifrea-afote    Enroluro  Addlo
madfeeaases,        hi   eentcd   nyafeiertiy   ae  deallosfno                                      primary Echno.l-g   peuehnetinll.ridr   blrn  gd91
thecelactet  em           t o      ostnnsrd   -non.s   ehe  set  grtsret.oe                          dec   u   njee    t  dfoetlaai   dyren    dnetn 
in te yar  00  ac  th  ean  o detclfee ofd fatliyattnsle-. -e   drrocl      oe,  oeta   eal                                                    .ree    aeeeee        _d
aen  enb.rdoatonsulematlsasfor  ae"If  ypond  ri AryIarnua
mhna hastt   Ti uaa  echd                                                                           oaie..ld lyof 10f tn 17 t  yeoee op.lfi  ee.s; 1 orrtaocbmncnheirdtre gatanau
tota"Vllaea     1 -9,197  atd 197  deta            d      ,~_        hg..tf.oy.. tatod    rrohfod f. Idifrfl,  rear-                               ceca   ohoboerr  ldad
only;ifld,1970aaf be  dat.                                                       yctl-tanbanatir    orlern.  rb eeemdant- Trel e9een-rrofed  i
tos tla 1f . .e .... l.ta ren-o  -. rnm     - eTha. y r-  brteofnrdad                               a he-atno  nonaladalut".o- 1   ynoaotacd1   er = hsadii              Oman.
imer pafteeletfota err iMMa.16-0.ad17-9
atmesfrr lent-0d   19470  arC9 d97-7.                                                            Iaea aenln   fnctoead  ooeo.ieca)-Peeam                       nate  oc.tynt. manor 
krdaert  tt  (rr   .aa de  - Cepoooat cn Arc            e  nhroeed or ad-fe                      oaeeatm   tee   trof5n   eroana-boa  reneca.tame
MoaaoaO, 1960, 197 aIe 1979. dana.                                                              olt tr, os.dbe
roralet1aaO   19700,aId, eta197 dana.                                                               broa  -ar   oaee  publc yr Lbtoeo  `d  Doot nit: onom 
Idm aeatootst   Ana=tea  oubee  ofenaun a1It  train roll bear1 an-                         Poeadrcoee                  otutt   it crene tan  ergY.isne tit  era
her  oema  rerrdtthrayerrd  0  an  taruteeoaet  g 1970                  a-                 eeaonrnn    at   o   ann   roemytt9roroei   tn
gfotrat eooaf- o195   i Li ne-ea   7nnaerbn    r16, O.                   n  1979.MosntontaiI ohottaced  ctceretn9.t
CFdblm    11 Pl Rit.e -   `-`- ecgor.         IIe thueoa  - eoal t nb   n Inn,rnon                  in taIfcend   Ma  obnen  rnlato)-.h.rmnr  fnboda a to .A
or h-irs-oea9r0l bate   adr9          eieeo    ocoa   iolyp9n7g  roa.aera   obi adboea   ototAotrcnoeolnrr    7errr
all trmed  romanta eAe-a  0uy ,elnto n-'dol    -rte i cttanrstersIer h, o                                                                                 illoemdasopteiodico
MIM  ft 9flThfM1o9                                                                              to-hr  'deity  0  rappear  an --o    oocoontk
ydof  no    falLn II           octe    yndoo on ea boreorly    and. fee   and                       noineeeoo    ou      hIne   ct  non  unclodiutn. oarot  n  doT-V c.oeaa
toeu   f  cn)attbar  dbero   nnt  ocrtnr                           Ifea   coerts sad                                    y      y-o    V~t                             o      -
oatbonelemsreg   poodoner yrl-   acgt;19-6,190   o  17   aa                               tInt1  LaoI.c,rooed)-foolclyetn    rroe   aldm
enargy en Itroiean of ret food                 -opleeorilhl   Oncur  yen c- yuta-                  cooot   neanoo   l   to                   aftcoei   rit    ocot   r
_tro  er  orohol     o  o  nnta-ncon,f end       1 65iotiro   ul ccod 1979    recodntocccy   on dtcd oar ".IEr ernot-noo   ory ooa   roP                                 fcr-nO
haeaebrld lined; 1061-h), 197. end 1977 dane    _1t370P           o                       and 1079l. JunO.,I7 -619A-.
yen  aola eoolyoO  nocit -arer  ore dm7i. -  ocItd concer  of  p    aot                     encladn   erOeren  .c.o..ra.e. ro  a Iaf -.. yepttoiEAtt    t
ietieaeb  offod L rr fIday          ml And    focd. IaReodae .ho. ir-                           ctiyrna  r   opnb- asoctl, f-Ie.ro  fr Y'l lobo It dre
edOomann  of if  ream  onconaO  yrnmtn yi  Ory tO  00 reee of atoen aod           90, AI  ...I     crddaoafmeet.er  heard_ntnbt ttt1otdabrtretr
arfsaf rrntOo bre  r   -eberag    foe the  tl,i  enprdb   u   o  b    od                  onaororc    ac   bnuf     oyelaIon 60dr 910 end i97 And on
rorbe rena tenory;lOtb-tt, 0570 ouO0300 ducu.                                    no  rircone) lYtOc Cocon
.d.a feeh   tel   n  yd        I   r    err deco1 65tl-970.00701end oa77 dat.               rncr   0i     I907nor_
-Pzooit       yrr,tohlen   obegeaoy   fort) o-r darnbp-cco.                                        ynf p rca,, rctrn  c  coceo . cnco   20I peon r,c   ococoencyyrno
em birnb; 1960. 1977 eeC      t- 1979y                      If danea.1and    197od h  ootnc979 rd tOri hoteidroobn cadotoon.                                  i
ofae Itfomtm    hi,,n titm                                                                  hou    oee   oca   onn thanl blocoer ,r....r Illrlen"Ithic   _ stlAl
eoae  a  tteOte  Irarnete of oorulo dio l-n o.p ..ab, erooe  - coo-t                                ounnnataeo                  ityl. of mroo  nm-food   Andcoi6e5aod    r
her   d nepl  (tonal  ocher6, and real  eenh rAroe---           nt    ro strmeOrrda le.                            .
maco   at  a  than, frepretd h..        rablee P, r.yn loge 6, a  19d eeieodeia 197   A.--         ce ~IooeTen oornU           ocrrlo   u-he   O000rycnrn
rrreanmeof  necceceoamsprtoaaoa                In an a-obr   repeh,,""                       paaronooat'rYocc    ocrntrtde                                errte o...
foeneo  0  redeetlocte   00   or  ooa  2 enre  eo  anoarfl  nrl                             lro   nha-oftrnfr  .grino-fIcn   o  rs    ce
coridre   eaf hA.Ii-   aicc it. reronbO   IM,970se          97 AOOscce.  treonr                    ahon   Ooono   rc   oelt   oro  Ico   eo   ooeo                                ca
rrastahe,cecaarod  ocl Ario   Kbn iocbal(  00 loeher of   ebe. -reioO                       a   ao       ooonoiocoOc  obredcnl)aoaoosl
do rr  hat  yr  retdaoapcyocccueh   pit  dyhnda  I eec-g hrovc
feellt   antrr      edll  RI    pr.A-                 -h    fif....    n     --oA1                                                    t
unnesoonrtauarealdccauoeounnht-onl.etaetrasL
AIo   r-ynranea.cue,ndetl,nrdteatsrdi-eee
peetsnnacma of tbao.r ns.oeanire errelenOtna.  tocrara dOayneol eay inobode~~~~I. o.
nbaooletta ad   ierel,  is   o  ertrornetetr.ofheaosoret                                                                            ncntbten  soPit          er ..ni.
andaunanno  y  enr-orr  ysem   o  nt  seofnO  phnteaed  ls-                                                  ocoec   oor._ed  nrrccda   tcotan
letIarrellaira.I                                                                                                                                      eyl1011
Poeaia   a   tbrecte f-   ope.leotd  dbrfdhad. by combe  of.  ao.J  n     oyi
ctn    eaf ne. ..nob.a seonal abiora-rty  -ornrPto..Prt.
aela ed fesae geedese abete. punr.lul nu.sa..an



-23-
ANNEX T
Page 4 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - EGONOMIC INDTCATORS
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Rates (M)
(million US$ at                                             (at constaot 1972 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)                                     Actual               c/         c/                Projected
1979 cl          1975       1976       1977       1978       1979        1980       1981       1982      1983      1QP4
8ATIOAI. ACCOUNTS
Gross destic product a/            68,643              3.6        3.4        7.7        6.6        7.1        2.0         4.4       4.4        4.3       L.3
Agriculture                       7,853             -2.6       -6.5        5.4       -5.4        5.5       -2.8        2.0        2.0        7.n       2.0
Industry                         27,381              6.8        3.9        9.5        8.7        8.6        3.6        4.4        4.3        4.2       4.2
Services                         26,086             4.3        0.2         6.1        9.2        5.2        4.3        5.2        5.2        5.2       5.2
Consumption                        48,288              0.9       -2.2       10.7        5.0        5.6        1.0        4.9        1.4         2.4      2.4
Gross investment                   25,093              8.8        6.0       12.4        9.7       15.7       -2.1       -3.1        3.5        3 q       1.5
Exports ot GNFS                    10,695             -8.3       10.6       -4.4       -1.0        8.0       13.4        6.2        8.0        8.0       7.f
Imports of GNFS                    15,433            -8.1       -5.0        12.5        0.0       18.5      -12.5       -3.8        3.4        3.5       3.6
Gross national savings             21,433              8.2       14.6       -0.6       -3.6        4.0         -          -          -          -         -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 =100)              313            170        204        232        260        313        401
Exchange rate                          19.0           17.4       18.2       18.3       18.6       19.0       24.9
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                                           Average Anoual Tncrease (7)
(at current prices) b/                                                (At constant 1972 prices)
1960      1970       1975      1980       1985                           196n-70   1970-75   1975-80   1480-85
Gross Domestic Product a!        100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0       100.0                              5.9        6.5        5.4        4.4
Agriculture                     22.5      16.1       13.9      11.9       10.6                              3.3        2.Q        l.8        2.0
Ia4ustry                       42.2      37.4       43.8      41.7       41.5                               6.3        f.3        6.9        4.2
Services                       29.0      38.1        33.6     37.4       38.9                               6.9        4.7        5.0        5.2
Consumption                       67.2      72.8       74.3      69.5       67.5                              6.S        6.9        3.8        3.6
Gross investent                   36.5      32.3       33.0      31.6       28.4                              4.7        5.5        8.3        2.5
Experts GlIFS                     13.9      18.5       20.4      19.6       22.8                             I0.?        6.7        2.6        7.6
Imorts GNES                       17.5      23.5       27.7     20.8        18.7                              9.8        6.7        1.4        2.6
Gross natiousl savings              32.6      29.6       29.9        -          -                               S.3        6.2         -          -
As Z of GDP
1960     1970       1975      1979
PUBLIC FINANiCE
Total revenues                    27.9      33.1       36.8      36.1
Total expenditures                24.1      33.2       37.2      36.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)         3.3       0.1      -0.4        0.1
Foreign financing                  0.0       0.0      -0.4        n.n
19604,70  1970-75    1975-80  1980-85
OTHER INDICATOES
GNP growth rate (7)                6.1       6.7        5.7       4.2
GNP per capita growth rate         5.0       6.6        4.7       3.3
ICOR                               5.4       4.6        5.8       6.8
lmport elasticity                  1.6       1.0        0.5      0.6
a!  At market prices; components are expressed at factor costs and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Projected years at constant prices.
c/ Estiisate.
d/  Preliminary.
EMFlNA 1C
Septem-er 2, 1Q80



- 24 -
ANNEX T
P8se 9 of 6
YL!(:OSLAVTA - EZTEgrAL TRADF.
Amount                                                     Annual Growth Rates (M)
(million US$ at                                               (at cons-tat 1977 prices)
lnotcut-r current prices)                                                         Actual                   ,       e  _     /                Proiected
(1980)             1974       1975       1976       1977       1978      IQ79 -)   180n          1q6        1982      1983       1481
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchaodi-e exports                  8,978              0.0        (0.       14.9       -5.3         I.n        4.4     10.9          7.0        8.1        8.3       8.3
Pr-mary ai                        1,940            -80.8       -3.1        16.6        3.9        1.S        5.6       2.4          7.0        8.3       8 8.3     P.3
Manuf-ctures b/                   7,038              3.5        0.4        1 3.0      -8.8        0.8        4.0    13.7            7.11       8.3       Y.3        8.1
M-rchandise Imports                15,064             16.9       -7.8        -6.5       18.5        3.8       IR.8   -IS.0           -9.8        1.4       3.4        3.9
Food                              1,087             13.6      -40.9       45.8         4.3      -24.2       S1.9      1.8        -15.0         1.8       1.0       3.5
Petroleoum c/                     3,549            -31.4       -9.0       10.1        12.n       11.6       10.6    -8.7            4.6        3.(       7.5       4.8
lu-consry and ouoipneot           4,216             16.4        22.3      -8,8        17.8        7.1       2?.4   -21.1         -14.1        -1.0      -1.0      -1.n
Others                            6,212             22.2      -11.9      -12.7        22.1        4.4       12.8   -1'.5            2.3        6.9       9.6       S.9
PRICES (1972 = 100)
Ouport price index                                   158         172        180        20?        220        295      296           121        348       376       404
Im7urt p-cce inde-                                   175        184        189         216        226        269      333          384         417       494       489
Te-rs of trade index                                  qO.3       93.5        95.2       93.S       97.3        94.0    89.0          P3.7       83.6      87.9      87.7
Composition of Merchandise  Trade (Z)                                 Average Annual Increase (7)
(at current prices) d/                                        (at corstast 1972 prices)
1960       1970       1975       1980       1985                             1960-7t   1q711-79   1975-8n  198I0-PS
Exports                                     100.0      100.0       I00.0      100.0      100.n                               8.1        9.7        9.1       8.1
Pruour-  0/                                49.6       29.4        19.5       72.0       23.0                                -        -1.3        6.0       8.1
Mnuscfuctucos b/                           50.4       70.6        8n.5       79.0       77.0                                -         8.1        4.7       8.1
lports                                      100.0      100.0      10(.0       10O.0      100.0                               9.0        7.4        3.0       ?.4
Food                                        9.1        7.2         9.5        7.2        8.6                                -         9.O       15.9      -0.s
YetroLecm c/                                5.4        4.8       12.3        23.6        8.3                                -         8.2        7.2       4.6
Muchi-ery aod Oouspoet                     36.8       33.2        33.9       28.n       27.3                                -         9.4        3.1      -7.7
otr.ers                                    48.7       54.8        48.3       41.7       95.8                                -         6.n        7.8       9.3
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade witb                     Share of Trade with
Industrial Gountries (Z)         Developing Coo-tries (Z)         Capital SlIrpl-e Oil Fxporters (M)   rentrally Planned Econoorie- (7)
1965      1970      1975         1965      1970      1975            1065      1970      1979            -- 6-         1970       1975
Exports                          40.1      53.3      34.0          17.4      13.6      16.8             n.4       0.7       2.1                42.1      32.4      47.1
Pr-o-ry                        61.0      70.2      54.0          9.1       9.2       8.9             0.2       0.2       1.0                29.7       21.4      3S.?
Mnufacctures                   24.0      41.9      26.0         23.8       17.2      20.0            0.6       I.0        7.1                51.6      39.9      51.9
Ineports                         55.3      66.1      59.1         16.0       12.7      15.7            0.1       0.1       n.6                 28.6      21.1      24.6
a/SITC 0-4
b/ 4i0c 5-8
c/  S00C 3; incLudcs luctucunto, coal and electricity.
41 Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
oj  Estcmat-s.  cUo-g to cuhaogo  in the valuation of trade, -ospocenot do rot add up to totals, nor do aggregate price and volume indices eamal value 9r-vth
hotween 1978 a-d 1979 shown in next table.
if /PreLcc,xnury.
V19F1N6 Ir'
Septe-ber 2, 1981



4                                                                                           a
100.10 10-jO                                                             00
0-      0-        '4          0O    0                 Oo-0   N    -    COO  4000    0-0   N  -  N
C       <         0           0  0                    000   40  0  0-n    no       0      0
00'-.'0   '00  40  oC  0    0  00  0        Un  00        N       COON    tOn   ONNOHo   0  nOcON
00000,00000                 0  or-'  0     4040  0       0       00-0400   ron 00000000             ,-oo0-c
,'oro00    on. 0  -.                   o.'coO-oo   o000-00000-0000N0>    0  0  00-0,00'  0  n  '0  00
coo.-."    0'  00  <2'         o  ooo.o-,-,o  '-on   o,r-,o'cO'0o   o'   cc,  0  coon   0  ocr-'O'-'            0
00000       0   0  00  0    or',--40  00040  00  0000   0000000000.          400-0    00000        00-0000
00<    ,,0      000        00  '0  000.00"  0< 0c-0000000r.'C0    oOr-o  OWOt .0                 cc*  -  0
noccO 00' 0 00 -- bOO 00000 00000 00000' Or.. 00-coOc.. 0 orocOc 0
00-00 - 0 - 0 tOo,'. on"on 0. on -'44 o"'0'00 000 ,. - - 0 NONN0,'O Co
NO          n       0      000   000040   000   tO             0  ON    0.0   on    0   0  0-'  .'  0'   n
0 c 0 onco 0 "ono 00 0 -rA 00-00 0 00 00 0 0 N 000 0
00000-'0        0            0  o'  0-   con   0  N    0          0000>    40  -  0,-    00   0  00000           0
-.0000'          --     40       do.         0   '0  n  00         .-,000-    o0    0       nn   0    00040000
0000            0,       0    00 00,  0.  00.    o  0  00            00       000   0      -    n    00.00-00
cc                    n            0   -         -  -0c        '.000-    n-o   0         0       0,040
0-00                        0  0    =       0   0  0  00          000=      0-0.0  0        0  0    0  0  N
cOO              0       0  0 0000    00,0"                         0 nO   0 0 0             < 0'  0000
o'0o'o                   0   00 '*O               0  0  n          0  0        '-'0          0  N    0000
0,0000                   0-0   0  0          0    0. 0             0    0,   000             4  0'   00.00-
0           0       0    0  0           0    0  0  00               N    000               0    0. 0-
0000             0            n  0           0-   n  -  00'              N    -NOr,          4  0    0000
0000-            4            0  n                       00             '0   Or'             0  0    0000
000000                   0       0                0,-    0.0                  0 010-         0
OO
NOOo             -                                0      0-                   00'                     co-NO'
0'0 0 0 0 0 '0'0
0000'            0       0                        0                                                   0.000
0000             0                                                              4                     '0-0
'40  0                                                                          0'                    0,   N
* Oo.o          0,       0
000           '4       0'                                                     0
-              o       0                                                      0
OnO            0       0
0-0,          0                                                              0
0  0           -.-..   0<
OON                                   -  '4
0- 0                          'o  .000-0,   00-   0                  0-         '4-N0N00-O    0
000'      -'N   N           0000-0.00            0'0  Or-.0'40-    0- -       0000000          0-   00000    0
000       0,00  0' '4-o  0    0000    N.o00     0-.040.N0'4 r lOol 0,      --o  0-N003r  N  0 0-r.c00o
400       00.0000,"    0-                                                   0
'4'40-'0'    0,N               -         N               -    00000    N
-      r-      -      NO   -             0                     -     '0        0
'4'4   0000,00    oN    0'4                           '4000-000-000-0                      0,
-  N         -'0-0    000000      .0  00000    00  '4         0-00  00000...00   00  '40-00-   0-         0
000  00 0,0-  0-   00-0    4.000-      0-040 0,0-00.0 r 0.00,r 0-    '4'4'4  0.003.0-   0-  r No.00            0
-0  0, 000  0-   0                                                                                             N
N    0000,        0,    '4           .-        N               -    000-N      -
0,'                 -         -                              00
'40-   000-000     I <0  0040      .-' 0-        0    ,-'o.-o00    0    0-0,0,0,   .0
N            .000-   00000        0-00.0000-00   0-            0-0,  0000,0-0   0,   0000N0               N
0,0-  0  000  00  00000    N000        '4040-000000-00            '40400000-NO    -00000                       0-
00000             0                                               0,                                           0
-    '40-'40    -.N     0           '4        '4  N      -         00-0-00    NO        0,
0,0-
00-  00040   -0 0000               - 0,          =0-0000-0000-N
-                "'00-   '400000     0,0-   N0-0   0-0  00        0-00  0NNN 000-0-0000-0-00,0
o0,  00 00000000000                    0,00400000000-40-          000,  0000000-4   0    0000          N     to>
-00, 0  0-0, -    00                                              0-                                          o
Oo.                                                                                                                     Z-0        40
0-n                                                                                             0     .o    -           0,
N                             o  0-000,   0,0   0                   0         0   000000.00,0                         0'
<0                            0.0  0-NON   o0 0 0    0 0-                       ONONO   00000
O         -  -             00-0.0000.0         0-00  004000    0-0  0-      0-,.. 00-00-00-0000000    0                 00
-On       000000000                  00N00-      00010.00-0440-0010         o0-N   N000 04  0-  4 0004'0-
00        000  0- 00  0-  0-                                                0,                                           00
00                                                                                                                        00
00'                                                                                                                       N
0                                                                                               4   NO  N
00                              OOOON    0,04   0                     .0    .0   0000,000'4   0                           0
NO                                               4-   -              -          - 4'---''-   00    0-
00                            .000   Oo0-0       o0-  -  0-          00         0-0-0000000-0000,0                        0-
0  -             0000    NOON        0,0,  00000    N'4  0,       0-0-  .00-0-000   00   000,0-   00         0,
O .0.000000-000-0000                  0-000000-00044-'0040,       .000  0400-000' 4  .0  40000000              -0
0.                                                                                                                      0-
0         N  -  -4 0  0    00
0  00000   0,0   0                   0          0 00000-00-0-   00
00000-0-   oO   0  0-           0-        0- 00-0000    0-   0,000    00            00
N            000400-0-0,          00-000-0       00  0         000  0-0000000N000.0                       00
40  0, 00  0-   0-0000-000             000-0-0,0.04 ON0100        0000000000040000-0-                          0
00    0  0,  00
0,0   0             0          0000000,0000  00
4' .    . 0-00
o0-N0-     00  .0000-           0-        0400000000,0000                 0,
O            oo   00-000   00-0400-0   00000000-00   00  0-0000
I 4  0  4 0  00   0-"    0,0-00-       000-0000004 4 004 40-     0000  000000004   N  4 0-o000,   0'
00      0    00                                              *0
000000            0,0     0-          0-         o          0    0    0-000,
00    00-00       '40  000-            0-        0  0-000-0    0    .0000-00   00
O            -0000    0-N=0,      oO-'0,.o0-          0-       00  0-0-00000.000000             00
'0  0,  0 4 00  00000    00-000       0,0-000000400  00 40        oNo  0,0-0000040400000
O       0-   00                                              0,
"'0-   0-0-0-0,   0,0   o0-            0-        0-     0  0    0
00  0000   00000                                     0-0000  00000-
N            00-0    0000,        000  00,0           0        00-  004-0 0000       0-N0-0004 0
04  N  4 0 00   0400,   004000        004000 040 404 0            000 000,00-000000-00.0              0
000                        '                                                    00                                  0
01                0,       0-   0                                                                                   0
nO                                                                                                 4   004004       0
0>                                40-00,004         0,0   00-            0-        0-     N  0    0    0000-3.      0.
a
* C                               00o    NoOc       000  .00000          00        0- 0-00000-00    0000004   00
40  N  0 0 00  '400    00-00          00400004144400              0000, 00000-00  0-  4000000- "'"'0-   0-0"'0  000,  0-000  00  00  00000-000   00   000000   00
00                -        0-                                                   0,
000
O                                                                                        4              0.000                   0-
000 0000000 0,0- 00- 0- .0 '0 04 0-0-00 0 0
-'                          0                         00
00    tO O'.'N    0-00  000            0         0  000000-00-000                00
"'"00    *0000      o'00  ,oo'o         00       -.o0-  0-00.0,00   0-   00-000    0            00
0 4  00    0 00   00-0    000000      00040004 0 4 4 0 00         00000000-0-004   0  000000-0
0,      0    0                                               0,



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.  bTATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of August 31, 1981) 1/
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-nine Loans fully disbursed                                   880.3
777    1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water   45.0        1.3
894    1973   Stopanska Bank Skopje          Agricultural
Industries           31.0      0.1
916    1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    19.6
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways              93.0      0.3
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion      44.0      3.6
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater            6.0      1.6
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0      3.9
1263    1976   barajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage             45.0    10.9
1264    1976   barajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control              38.0      6.8
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit               50.0      3.0
1360    1977   Management Organization       Multipurpose
"Metohija"                   Water                 54.0    42.7
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka             Agriculture
Titograd                      Industries           26.0      7.2
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture
Industries           24.0    13.2
1377    1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                       Roads                 56.0      0.1



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in       Second Power
each Republic                 Transmission         80.0       28.5
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka             Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0       49.5
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             100.0       11.9
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
blovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                      Roads                  80.0       11.8
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine          Hydro Power           73.0       34.0
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0       14.5
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0        4.8
1613    1978   btopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0       10.8
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka            Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit               20.0        2.4
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       50.7
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
barajevo                      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0       49.4
1678    1979   Roads Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and Macedonia        Roads                 148.0       68.4
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0       50.1
1759    1979   Road Organization of           Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways             21.0       12.9
1768    1979   Port of Bar                   Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0       48.8
1769    1979   Railway Organization          Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways             14.0       11.6



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Numrber  Year            Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka            Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0       83.8
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
berbia and Vojvodina       Roads                 125.0     125.0
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0      50.0
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0      30.0
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka            Fifth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit               20.0      20.0
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka               Fifth Industrial
bkopje                       Credit               10.0      10.0
1951    1980   Investbanka                   Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0        87.0
1977a/  1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways                34.0      34.0
1993a/  1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0        90.0
2039a/  1981   btopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture            80.0      80.0
Total (less cancellation)                               3,012.7      892.92
of which has been repaid                                 388.5
Total now outstanding                                   2,624.7
Amount sold                             9.2
of which: Amount repaid                9.0                 0.2
Total now held by Bank                                  2,624.0
Tocal undisbursed                                                    892.92
a/ Approved but not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at August 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                         Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation         -      2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                         Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry             9.2      0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KMD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                            Industry         16.3      0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires             12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper   70.8       -      70.8
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel    10.0       -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant      10.0      -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel             50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                      Processing        4.0      2.4      6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6     2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors       7.0     -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                     Tourism            21.0     -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                         Machinery          18.7      -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial           Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises      30.3      -       30.3
Total Gross Commitments                                287.8    11.8   299.6
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             153.5     5.2   158.7
Total commitments held by IFC                          134.3     6.6   140.9
Total Undisbursed                                       81.7     0.8    82.5



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. About
one-third of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder
expected to be completed by end-1981.  Project costs have been substantially
above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by
the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which is
assisting in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
individual sector. In the absence of land consolidation, on farm
development and use of sprinkler irrigation have been slow. Recently,
organizational arrangements and revised schedule of implementation were
agreed upon, with irrigation of about 400 ha in 1981.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The costs of equipment and civil works had increased by end 1975
by about 71X over the appraisal estimate. As a result of this and of a
reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the project was
redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116). Phase I is a
reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a pipeline
extension to link up with the pipeline constructed under the Sarajevo Air
Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing was
obtained. Naftagas obtained additional local currency financing required
for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementaion has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. While two of the three sections have been
completed and gas deliveries have commenced, the third section has been
delayed due to the reorganization of the borrower and a consequent change in
project administration of the third section which is now scheduled for
completion by late 1982. This change in project administration for the
third section was approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980
(Second Amendment to Loan 916--YU, November 14, 1980, R80-324).
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974: Effective
Date; February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date; December 31, 1981
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the
earthquakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to
port installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused
further delays but works are now proceeding. Closing date has been extended
to December 31, 1981 to permit completion of works.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater; US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about two years behind schedule. Services to the Bank
financed Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in
time for its initial operation and remaining water supply component has now
been completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage
component.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date; November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The regional development study undertaken under this project
provided the basis for the preparation of the Second Morava Regional
Development Project (Loan No. 1951-YU). The flood control and water quality
studies are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays in selecting
consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 2 years behind
schedule due to foundation, design and construction problems which, however,
are being overcome by intensified efforts of the borrower in the supervision
of the contractor and consultation with the panel of experts. Construction
is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and Titovo Uzice
components, the remainder are well advanced. Feasibility studies on sewage
treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been completed. The pilot
irrigation components which were delayed pending the establishment of
suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The creation of the



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Republic Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than
anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June
8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage
collection is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by mid
1981. Construction of the sewerage treatment plan is underway and expected
to be completed by early 1982.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initital
deliveries of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally
planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were
the major cause of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and
high presssure loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed.
Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates. Closing
Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981 to meet payments under
existing orders and letters of credit.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are
progressing satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year
behind schedule. Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it
is expected that by mid-1981 all major contracts would have been awarded. A
demonstration irrigation farm of 32 ha involving 28 farmers has been highly
successful.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
t
Progress of all major works is satisfactory. The winery and the
cold store are completed. Plantations of vineyards and orchards are on
X           schedule.  Irrigation works are nearly completed.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries; US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all seven agro-industrial sub-projects have been
approved by the Borrower and loan proceeds for the individual sector have
also been fully committed. Progress in project implementation is slower
than expected due primarily to slow processing of bids and contract
finalization.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 90% of the loan amount have been let and
physical execution, while slower than expected at appraisal, is underway on
the most critical sub-stations and lines. The tariff study and most of the
least cost development study have been submitted to the Bank. Delays
continue to be experienced regarding management studies, revised
interrepublc agreement on joint operations, remaining portion of least cost
development study and securing of foreign financing for balance of items to
be imported.
Loan 1477 becond Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
All participating banks have identified the main investors. About
95% of loan proceeds have been committed and in the social sector, all
agroindustry investments are in the procurement or implementation phase;
however, the project is about one year behind appraisal estimates. Measures
to speed-up disbursements and overall project implementation have been
discussed with the participating banks. The project monitoring and
evaluation system is working satisfactorily.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well. The level of
compensation payments is however increasing and substantial tariff increases
have failed to keep pace with inflation. Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Croatia section opened to traffic ahead of schedule. Slovenia and
berbia sections expected to be completed by fall 1981.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80% of the loan amount
have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively problem
free. However, Part B of the project (Mostar power plant), which is not
Bank financed, has been delayed primarily due to additional studies needed
concerning site geology and additional time needed to complete financing.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date; November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are slightly
behind appraisal estimates mainly because of the delay in the approval of a
special project (lead smelter).
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date; November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans are almost fully committed. Disbursements for Loans
1612 and 1614 are well ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal,
while Loan 1613 is behind appraisal estimate. However, disbursements for
Loan 1613 is expected to accelerate as a result of recent changes in the
Borrower's procedures.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date; February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the dam, alimentation canal, main canal and
irrigation network are underway. Thermal pipeline, diversion tunnel and
coffer dam construction have been completed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Sub-project approval and processing of tender documents have been
proceeding more slowly than expected at appraisal. About 40% of loan has
been committed.  Cost overruns may necessitate a reduction in scope of the
project.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date; August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The five participating Republics/Provinces have awarded 63
construction contracts, 40 of which have Bank financing. Disbursements are
somewhat ahead of schedule, except that for the Autonomous Province of
Kosovo.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Action for award of contracts for equipment and construction of
civil works is in an advanced stage. Studies on subsurface drainage in
experimental plots have commenced. Progress on civil works, although
somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Disbursements are lagging behind
appraisal estimates but are expected to improve following recent award of
contracts for supply of construction equipment and strengthening of staff
engaged in processing withdrawal applications.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date; December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project close to schedule, emergency works completed and
contracting for restoration works completed with some works in progress.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation about nine months behind schedule due to
delays in preparation of final designs and bidding documents.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 million loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date; April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $2.3 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as result of complicated engineering design for
repairs to badly damaged tunnel.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date; August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
About 40% of the loan has been committed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Slovenia and berbia have completed pre-qualification of
contractors, called for bids and completed analysis. Serbia is ready to
award contracts, Croatia and Vojvodina contracts have been approved by
Bank. Consultant for toll study has been selected. CRO and ITE
co-sponsoring Highway Safety Conference in Yugoslavia October, 1981.
Co-financing was obtained for an amount of US$110 million in October, 1980
(see Semi-Monthly Report to the Executive Directors, R80-299).
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit; $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing Dates; October 31, 1984
Sub-project identification and preparation is at an advanced stage
and a number of sub-loans have already been approved.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II: $87 million loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: August 28, 1981; Closing Date; December
31, 1986
Out of 12 agroindustry sub-projects for which bids were invited,
bids have been opened for 11, and award of contract made for 6.
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway: $34.0 Million loan of May 15, 1981; Effective
Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Original terminal date for declaring loan effective September 15,
1981, has been extended to November 16, 1981 to permit additional time for
ratification and delivery of documentation.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development: $90 million loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
Terminal date for declaring loan effective is October 15, 1981.
Bids have been opened for majority of agro-industries sub-projects, and the
rest are in the process of tendering.
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development: $80 million of July 23,
1981; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
Terminal date for declaring effective is November 30, 1981.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
bection I; Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first presented to Bank:             February 1980
(b)  Time taken by RWB to prepare project:        Ten months
(c)  Agency which prepared the project:           Regional Waterworks Batlava
(RWB)
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:        April 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:              January 10, 1981
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                  June 26, 1981
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:               January 31, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Retroactive financing of expenditures of up to $6.0 million is
recommended to permit construction to start before the winter season.
section III: Special Conditions
1.         As a condition of effectiveness an agreement is to be entered into
between the Borrower and Udruzena Kosovska Banka, Pristina, for the provision
of additional funds, as and when required, for carrying out the project (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01).
2.         RWB has agreed that:
(a) Beginning in 1982 and annually thereafter it will implement
tariffs which, combined with voluntary contributions, will provide
for;
(i)   expenses of operation and maintenance;
(ii)   depreciation or debt service, whichever is higher; and
(iii)   adequate increases in working capital (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.04 (a)).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)     without the concurrence of the Bank, it will not incur any
debt other than the ones specified for this project, unless
a reasonable forecast of its net revenues before
depreciation and interest (including voluntary
contributions), exceed 1.5 times its debt service in any
future years, including debt service on the amount to be
borrowed (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 (c)).
(c)     it willprepare and furnish to the Bank for its review by
not later than March 31, 1982 a training program for
developing and enhancing the skills of its supervisory and
other staff (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06);
(d)     it will provide the Bank annually during project
implementation and for five years thereafter with a report
on the results of its operations monitored in accordance
with administrative, technical and financial criteria (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.06).



IBRD 15684R
hUStRIA   -,\   H5NGARY
PODUJEVO                 $1  El1*\                  ?OVDO   RCMANIA
CROArIA
ZEGR VIN        5 E R E IA   S -
YUGOSLAVIA
KOSOVO WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                                                             OENIA4O
\&f 0 14' 0}00t; ;-G 5* 2       .-REECE
9            Proi.aw                                                                                       Sa1kopac
TRANSMISSION LINES: .-
MAIN
OTHERS
*                 X       TREATMENT PLANTS                                                        Batlava Dam
1. ,    PUMPING STATIONS
f                ,)      STORAGE RESERVOIRS
o                         WELL FIELDS
INTAKE
Ol    1    2    3    4 
KILOMETERS
This rap has been prepared by the
World Bark5 staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attaac,ed
The denominations used and the
hb-undnes shovn on this reap
do not inp.y, on the part of the
World Balk and it, affRfiates, any
judgment on the legal status of
ttnY temtorv or any end-rsmet
o, -Ccetran- of-cih oo-a,nxe,
OBILIC
PRISTINA
Vronlevac 
- ~~~~~~~~~~Ka'sagija
Dragodan    ~         o~aI)
r ovic                                                                                                      SR S  SEREIA
Mafii!ane                                  ..N       ( M iss
NONTENE(~F _
< 0 KO~~~~SOVO POLJE                                                                                      X            j
SA.. /A?  KOSOVO                    (
KUZMIN                                                                         Y      -j         Pirere
WELL FIELD                              /'                                  ' 1c a                      ALBANIA          -         '
/Bdovac                              /      SR. MACEDONIA
___________________________________________________________________________________________________                                                                        JUNE 1981



