Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
o , -?oR 3 -Ag
Report No. P--4700-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
BANKING SECTOR LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt4OO MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC 3F ARGENTINA
February 29, 1988
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Austral (A)
US$1 - A 0.800
(June 14, 1985 to April 8, 1986)
US$1 - A 1.255
(December 31, 1986)
US$1 - A 3.500 (fixed rate for foreign trade)
US$1 - A 3.950 (floating rate)
(October 15, 1987)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANADE - National Development Bank
BHN    - National Mortgage Bank
CBA    - Central Bank of Argentina
FIs    -  Forced Investments in Non-Negotiable CBA Bonds
GDP    - Gross Domestic Product
IMF    -  International Monetary Fund
Ml     - Money
M2     - Ml plus quasi-money
M3     - M2 plus bankers acceptances
M4     - M3 plus indexed deposits
NBFIs  - Non-Bank Financial Institutions
RRs    - Reserve Requirements
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCAL US ONLY
BANKING SECTOR LOAN
Table of Contents
Pairs tlo.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .......................                          i - i;
PART I - THE ECONOMY                             .1...................       1
PART II - THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ........................................ 4
2.1  Recent Trends .................................................. 4
2.2  Present Financial Sector Structure ............................. 6
PART III - MAIN BANKING SECTOR ISSUES ................................. 7
3.1  Lack of Confidence in the Financial System               .      .      7
3.1.1  Shallow Financial Sector ................................ 8
3.1.2  Inadequate Prudential Regulation .10
3.1.3  Weak Financial Condition of Banks ...................... 13
3.2  Over-regulation and Segmentation                   ..                16
-.2.1  Segmentation of Deposit and Credit Markets .........     16
3.2.2 Credit Allocation Through Central Bank
Rediscount Lines .........                                  18
3.3 High Cost of Credit             ......... 21
PART IV - TIHE PROPOSED BANKING SECTOR LOAN .........                       24
4.1  Objectives of the Loan and Mair Components   .          .    ....... 24
4.2  Description of Main Roforms           ......... 24
4.2.1  Increasing Deposit Mobilization and
Confidence in the Banking System .........                  24
4.2.2  Improving Credit Allocation .........                         -
4.2.3  Reducing the Cost of Credit .........                        28
PART V - LOAN FEATURES .........                                            30
5.1 History .........                                                     30
5.2  Loan Amount, Borrower and Implementing Agency .........             30
5.3  Letter of Financial Policy .........                                 30
5.4 Tranche Release .........                                             30
5.5  Disbursement and Procurement Mechanisms .........                   31
5.6 Benefits and Risks .........                                         31
PART VI - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY .........                      32
PART VII - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF .........                             34
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION .........                                        34
This document has a restricted diitribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aut' 'TIJ



TABLE OF CONTENTS (contd.)                                           Page No.
TEXT TABLES
1. Monthly Real Interest Rates and Financial Depth ................. 9
2.  Loan Portfolio Quality Indicators .14
3.  Percentage Share of UnprofitsF'e Banks, 1986 .15
4.  Structure of Deposit Liabilities in the Banking System .17
5. Breakdown of Credit by Type .18
6.  Rediscounts as a Percentage of Total Deposits .19
7.  Recent Evolution of CBA Rediscount Lines .19
8. Rediscounts, Reserve Requirements and Forced Investments
Net Position with Central Bank (as of Harch 31, 1987) .20
9.  Real Interest Rates, 1982-87 .................................. 22
TEXT GRAPHS
1. Selected Financial Indicators.                                      5
2.  Real M3 and Real Deposit Rates ................. ............... 10
3.  Real Annualized Spreads ........................................23
ANNEXES
I - Key Macroeconomic Indicators .35
II - Balance of Payments, 1980-l995 .36
III - Supplementary Toan Data 3heet .37
IV - Status of Bank Group Operations .39
V - Letter of Financial Policy ................................... 41
VI - Policy Matrix .52
VII - Technical Assistance Component .55



SAWKING SECTOR LOAN
Loan and  oaaSar
Borrower:       Republic of Argentina
Amount:         US$400 million
Terms:          15 years,  including 3 years of grace at the standard
variable rate.
Loan
Objectives:   The main objectives of the Banking Sector Loan are:
(i) increasing deposit mobilization and confidence in the
banking system; (ii) improving credit allocation; and
(iii) reducing the cost of credit.   Achievement of these
objectives will increase the overall efficiency of
Argentina's financial sector and enhance its ability to
finance investment and growth.
Loan
Description:  The proposed loan consists of two componints:   a policy
component and a technical assistance component.
The policy copDonent involves a set of reforms directed at
reaching the three above-mentioned objectives.
The reforms aimed at increasing dey,osit mobilization and
confidenice in the banking system include:
(i)  liberalization  of  depos.t  interest  rates;
(ii) enactment of stringent reguLations on loan portfolio
classification according to risk of default, provisions for
potential loan losses, and interest accruals on problem
loans; (iii) establishment of a Deposit Insurance
Corporation for the rehabilitation or liquidaticn of
problem banks; (iv) public disclosure of barking
institutions' balance sheets and income statements; and
(v) a macroeconomic program consistent with a reduction in
the rate of inflation and the maintenance of a realistic
exchange rate.
The reforms aimed at improving credit allocation include:
(i) reduction of reserve requirements and elimination of
forced investments on incremental deposits; and
(ii) rationalization of Central Bank rediscounts
(restrictions on their growth, treatment of rediscounts
with the same transparency as other fiscal expenditures,
reduction of subsidies, and streamlining of rediscount
portfolio administration).
The reforms aimed at reducing the cost of credit include:
(i) reduction of the consolidated public sector deficit;
(ii) rationalization of public banks, including action



- ii -
programs to allow them to adjust to the reduced
availability of Central Bank rediscounts; and
(iii) speeding up the liquidation of failed financial
institutions.   The. increase in deposit mobilization,  the
redimensioning of the banking system as a conseqtance of
more stringent regulhtions, and the reduction in the level
of reserve requireme(its on incremental deposits will also
help to reduce the ccst of credit.
The technical assis;ance component is geared to strengthen
the banking superintendency's capabilities on both credit
risk analysis and assessment of the overall financial
condition of banking institutions.   This will allow it to
take timely actions to stop unsound financial practices, or
if necessary, to force insolvent institutions to exit the
market at an early stage of insolvency.
Proiect Risks:  The major risk asscciated with this loan relates to the
possibility of setbacks in macroeconomic policies that
would interfere with the implementation of needed
structural reforms, including the banking sector reforms
supported by the proposed loan. These risks are mitigated
by the commitment to stabilize the economy and to proceed
with a program of structural reforms which the Government
continues to show, as demonstrated by its October 1987
reform package.   The multi-year  rescheduling  of the
external debt, the new money facility for 1987/88, and the
standby arrangement with the IMF also reduce these risks.
Disbursemenit:  The loan would essentially be disbursed in two trancbes.
It is anticipated that the first tranche (US$199.5 million)
would be disbursed soon after loan effectiveness.   The
second tranche (US$200.0 million) would be released about
nine months after loan effectiveness, subject to a review
of the adjustme-nt program and an assessment of the
macroeconomic  situation.    The  technical  assistance
component (US$0.5 million) would be disbursed over a period
not to exceed two years.



REPORT AND RECOWOENDATION O  THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BAK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEmELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A BANKING SECTOR LOAN
TO T4l ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Argentina for the equivalent of US$400.0 million in
support of a Banking Sector Adjustment Program. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - TEE ECOOM
2.       Argentina's recent economic history has been characterized by
large and rapid fluctuations in GDP, the public sector deficit, Inflation,
real exchange rate, external balance, real interest rates, and wages. This
instability has resulted from frequent changes in policy, low public
confidence and persistent structural imbalances.
3.       High  and  rising  inflation,  physical  and  technological
deterioration of the country's productive capacity and huge external debt
service requirements resulted in general economic stagnation, such that the
1986 per capita GDP was 6% lower than in 1970.  Gross investment fell from
21.6% of GDP in 1976 to 11.8% in 1986.  Heavy borrowing in the late 1970s
multiplied sevenfold the country's external debt as a share of GDP, from
10% to 68 .  Unfortunately,  very little of this debt increase went to
augment the productive base of the nation. Today, interest payments on the
external debt absorb about 7% of GDP and about 70% of merchandise export
earnings.
4.       The productive sectors, particularly manufacturing, are beset by
major structural and financial problems.  Most manufacturing firms have a
depleted capital stock and lack access to sufficient working capital at
acceptable interest rates as financial speculators compete for these funds.
Financial intermediation is costly and inefficient while interest rates are
high both in nominal and real terms.
5.       When the current democratically elected Government took office at
the end of 1983, it faced spiralling inflation and growing balance of
payments difficulties. Also, t1.e aftereffects of an industrial recession
were threatening the solvency of the financial system.
6.       Toward the end of 1984, the Government entered into a 15-month
Standby Agreement with the IMF and rescheduled its external debt with
commercial and official creditors.   However, during the first quarter of
1985, as the economy remained sluggish and political pressures mounted,
adherence to the program slackened, and the review scheduled for March 1985
was delayed to July 1985 after the June introduction of the Plan Austral.
7.       The high inflation tax and negative interest rates during 1982/83
had demonetized the economy and led to a process of financial
disintermediation unprecedented in Argentina's history.  During the second
quarter  of  1985,  economic  conditions  worsened  significantly.   The
Government  made important efforts to achieve economic adjustment in the
context of the Plan Austral and its subsequent corrections.   The  Ilan



- 2 -
Austral was an economic  stabilization program which included a major
tightening of fiscal and monetary policies, a wage and prize freeze, and
the pegging of the domestic currency to the US dollar.   The program
initially succeeded in reducing inflation from 30% per month in June 1985
to an average  of 2% per month for the second hal'  of 1985.   These
stabilization efforts were complemented by a program of structurel reform,
including fiscal and trade reforwa,, public sector rationalization, and a
program of incentives to expard the role of the private rector.  However,
it did not succeed in maintaining inflation at the initially targeted
monthly rate of 3%.  Much still remains to be done to achieve the goal of
sustained economic stability. Neither itprovements under the Elan Austral
nor higl real interest rates have been sufficient to remonetize the economy
to the levels of the 1970s (M3/GDP, which stood at about 30% in 1976,
currently stands at about 17%), indicating that financial markets'
confidence in Government policies has yet to be testored.
8.       In March 1986,  the Government began to phase out the wage and
price freeze and replaced it by a system of administered prices. In April,
it introduced crawling peg type adjustments in the exchange rate system and
in public tariffs, and adopted a program to step up tax collection.   Tne
final tranche of the Standby Agreement was disbursed in June 1986 following
the Government's presentation to the Fund of a letter setting out its
proposed economic policy objectives for the second half of the year.  The
Government also received the final scheduled disbursements of new money
under the 1985 agreement with the commercial banks.
9.       Prices began to rise again in mid-1986, reachlng a monthly rate
increase of 8.8% in August.   'nflationary pressures were rekindled by an
excessive growth of the money supply, the phasing out of the wage/price
freeze, and a sharp rise in the price of beef which weighs heavily in the
consumer price index.   In response to these developments, the Government
tightened monetary and fiscal policies and reintroduced price controls,
adjusting prices in line with a targeted decline in the rate of inflation.
These measures were combined with selective liberalization of imports. As
a result of the new measures, inflation again began to subside.
10.      During 1986, the real economy rebounded strongly from the sharp
decline  in real  output  in 19b5.   Both  invescment  and consumption
expenditures expanded in 1986.   Although the  tight monetary policy
introduced during the last quarter of 1986 dampened the upturn in economic
activity, real CDP rose by about 5.5% for the year, fueled by a strong
recovery in the industrial sector.   The upsurge in economic activity
produced an estimated 24% rise in the value of merchandise imports above
the depressed level of the previous year.  The total value of merchandise
exports, on the other hand, reflecting a deterioration in world grain and
oilseed prices, fell by 17%. As a consequence, the deficit in the current
account of the balance of payments increased to about US$2.6 billion (3.8%
of GDP), compared to US$1 billion (1.5% of GDP) a year earlier.
11.      In 1987, after a first quarter growth of over 4% of GDP on an
annualized basis the economy slowed down considerably.   During the first
semester, consumer prices increased by 6.3% per month on average (more than
double the increase of the first semester of 1986), reflecting the
political pressures on the fiscal deficit created by approaching elections



- 3 -
and the phase of the beef cycle.  The resurgence of double-digit monthly
inflatihn in July caused grave concern. In July, a new agreement with the
IMF was sigrned,   which implied a severe tightening of both monetary and
fiscal variables i-ediately after the elections of September 1987.  The
public sector deficit limit for the second s?mester was set at 2.A% of GDP
(as compared to 6.4% in the first semester) with most improvement to be
achieved on the revenue side.   The Central Bank was to keep regulated
interest rates above inflation and the expansion of the money supply at a
fraction of inflation.
12.      The July IMF program was combined with the announcement of a set
of medium-term structural reform measures.   These were related to che
fuller liberalization of the hydrocarbons sector, transport and
communications, divestiture of industrial public enterprises, restructuring
of public banks, and a more rigorous supervision of private financial
institutions.
13.      However, shortly after the program was agreed, economic conditions
and performance began to deteriorate once again and continued to do so for
the remainder of the year, so that:
(a) External. Mainly as a result of factors beyond Government control
Lhe trade surplus for 1987   ropped to US$850 million,  about
US$1.5 billion lower than expected earlier in the year; in spite
of the very stubstantial capital inflows, the authorities wc'e
obliged to virtually deplete their reserves and even run up some
arrears.   The trade account surplus for 1988 's expected to be
over US$2 billion, buoyed by recent increases in commedity prices
(in dollar terms).   However, with interest obligations of about
US$4.5 billion a year, a need to rebuild reserves, and after
allowing for other capital inflows, a new external financing need
for 1988 of around USS3 billion is anticipated.
(b)  Fiscal.  The deficit of the consolidated public sector for 1987
was 7%.  In October 1987, the authorities proposed a package of
mea.sures to address the issue. A compromise solution was approved
by Congress in early January 1988 (a welcome advance from previous
approaches to resolving such problems) which is expected to result
in a reduction of the deficit by 3% to 4% of GDP in 1988.
14.      The  IMF  is expected  to release  the  third tranche  (around
US$225 million)  of the orgoing Standby Agreement by mid-March.   The
commercial banks would release an associated tranche of US$550 million from
their 1987 US$1.95 billion new money package. To qualify for the IMF third
tranche release, Argentina met October 1987 performance criteria and agreed
on detailed quarterly pe;formance criteria through mid-1988 and indicative
targets for the remainder of the year. The main features of this new plan
are the revenue package approved by C%ngress in January, expected to reduce
the deficit for 1988 to about 39 of GDP. and additional measures to be
adopted to reduce the deficit further.  ArgAntina and the IMF have agreed
on the need for a longer-term support arrangement based on a medium-term
policy  framework for structural  adjustment.   This is a welcome new
development which the World Bank intends to support fully through a program
of sectoral adjustment and investment  loans.   Several major reform



. 4 -
programs, particularly in agriculture, external trade policy, and banking
are already under way and are supported by Bank loans. The Banking Sector
Loan submitted for approval at this time is part of Argentina's economic
and financial reform program.
15.      This program now needs to be extended and refined, particularly in
the areas of industrial modernization (requiring major changes in fiscal
incentives and deregulation), public enterprise reform (requiring major
financial, budgetary, managerial, and staffing changes as well as
privatization), and socl1al sector reform in public housing, social
security, health and education. Once Argentina's current liquidity crisis
has been addresred and while the Government successfully implements the
ongoing Standby Agreement, it is reasonable to expect that public
confidence will gradually re.urn and that sustained improvement in macro-
economic conditions needea for achieving the objectives of the Banking
Sector Loan will materialize.   A new medium term external financing plan
also involving the commercial banks remains to be worked out. Serious work
on this cannot be expected to start until a new medium-term policy
framework for structural adjustment has been further detailed.  Meanwhile,
Argentina may again have to run up arrears witil commercial bank creditors.
PART II - THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
16.      Argentina's  financial system is composed primarily of banking
institutions, while the capital. markets, insurance business and non-bank
financial intermediaries (NBFIs) are relatively less important. Commercial
banks account for 42% of total financial assets, the Central Bank for 34%,
marketable securities constitute 12% (of which only 3% is equity), and
NBFIs and institutional investors account for the remaining 12%.
2.1 RECENT TRENDS
17.      In the  last 15 yeeirs, Argentina's financial sector has been
subject to extreme instability and drastic policy reversals and has
operated in an overall  framework of macroeconomic instability.   Policies
went from extreme regulation, with an effective nationalization of deposits
and an allocation of credit exclusively through the Central Bank (1973 to
mid-1977), to total liberalization of interest rates, credit allocation and
entry into the system (mid-1977 to mid-1982), to a return to financial
repressicn and substantial reliancq on Central Bank credit (mid-1982 to
early 1985), to, most recently, gredual movements toward a more liberal
system.  These policy shifts, coupled with macroeconomic instability, have
resulted in a weakened financial sector characterized by high real interest
rates, large spreads, shallowness and segmentation.
18.      In this  context,  the number  and composition  of financial
institutions have undergone substantial changes.  After the 1977 financial
reform a large number of NBFIs were liquidated, merged or transformed into
commercial banks.   As a result, the number of financial institutions was
reduced by half between 1978 and 1984, while the n=mber of banks rose from
150 to 203.   The number of institutions,  including commercial banks,
continued to decline thereafter, and currently there are 294 institutions
compared to 721 in 1978.   Some institutions, particularly those which
specialized in long-term lending, such as finance companies, credit unions,



- 5-
and savings and loan institutions, have either felded or have beeni forced
to merge or change their line of business  to survive.   Many of these
institutions converted into banks in the period between 1977 and 1980 to
take advantage of a larger scope of operations. The demonetization process
started in 1981 made it clear that the banking system was overdimensioned
and a steady process of concentration began.   Thus, the reduction in the
number of financial  institutions also    cluded commercial banks.   The
number of commercial banks has declined from 207 in 1980 to 183 at present.
However, considering the low level of monetization, compared to that of the
mid-197Cs, there is still room for further concentration.
GRAPH 1
SELECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS
(1978=100)
180.
160._
1408  -                                                         Credit
I iZ0            ---o~                                __
188x ___o-o---v_wt--                                 ~          Real M3
e   80                                                         w- Branches
x   60                            .- Personnel
40 .
20
78   79   80    81    82    83   84    85   86
Year
19.      While solving the banks' problems should have priority because of
their relative importance in the Argentine financial market, issues
affecting other financial institutions and financial markets should also be
tackled.   The Bank is currently carrying out a study of the country's
capital markets, insurance business and NBFIs which couid lead to a follow-
up operation  in the financial sector.   Many of these institutions and
markets are financially weak and thus contribute to the overall fragility
of the financial system, already overburdened by major difficulties on the
banking  side.   The  securities  markets,  and  the  stock exchanges  in
particular, are characterized by: (i, .he slow growth in transactions and
their volatility; (ii) the small importance of the market relative to the
size of the economy; (iii) the limited role of private instruments; and
(iv) the high average trading cost by international standards.
20.      Similarly,  pension  funding  in Argentina,  which  is  a State
monopoly, is going through a major structural crisis, characterized by
severe  financial  difficulties.    The  Government  ir aware  of  these



- 6 -
difficulties, and initial steps have been taken to improvc this situation,
such as allowing the establishment of private insurance companies which
will specialize in pension funding (available to the public on a voluntary
basis  and as  a supplement  to the public pension system).    Improved
management and finances of the National Social Security System and
efficient private pension funds could provide the capital markets with
badly needed in\stitutional investors.
21.      Argentina's  economic  crisis has also permeated  the  insurance
market.  The Government is a r      participant in the insurance market both
through its role as regulat    aId supervisor,  and more directly as the
owner of various insurance COL   ies and of the quasi-monopolistic National
Reinsurance Institute (INDER).  Inflation has been a major hindrance to the
development of the insurance business and an important reason for its
currently  weak  financial  condition.    In addition  to  inflation,  the
insurance business has also been affected by: (i) the excessive number of
insurance companies;  (ii) the poor financial situation of many of tLhem,
partly as a result of price controls; (iii) the inability of the insurance
superintendency to monitor and control developments in the sector; (iv) the
large degree of losses in the business which appear to be related -o the
lack of supervision and fraud; and (v) the monopolistic role of INDER which
has become very costly to the country.
2.2 PRESENT FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURE
22.      As of March 1987, there were 294 insti.tutions in operation in the
institutional  financial  system.   This  included 189 banks,  64 finance
companies, 11 savings and loan associations, and 30 credit unions. Banking
institutions include 183 commercial banks, 2 development banks, 2
investment banks., 1 mortgage bank, and 1 Government-ow.-Ad savings and
insurance  bank.    Of  these,  37 were public  and  152  private.    The
institutional financial system operates through a network of about 4,400
branches, and employs about 144,000 persons, of which 56% are working at
public banks, 42% at private banks, and the remaining 2% at NBFIs.
23.      The public banks consist of 2 national commercial banks (including
Banco de la Nacion,  the larg,est commercial bank in the country which
accounts for about 19% of total deposits); a hou-ing bank (Banco
Hip3tecario Nacional, the third largest bank with 5% of total deposits); 2
development banks (of which the most important is BANADE, the industrial
development bank); 25 provincial banks (of which Banco "> la Provincia de
Buenos Aires is the largest with over 10% of total deposits); 5 municipal
banks; a savings and insurance bank, mostly engaged in providing insurance;
and a small investment bank.   Public banks control  50% of the banking
system's total deposits. On the asset side, they grant 58% of the value of
total loans.
24.      Private commercial banks are quite heterogeneous.   There are 31
foreign banks and 121 domestically owned banks. Private banks control 48%
of total bank deposits.   On the lending side, private commercial banks
grant 39% of total bank loans.   Finally,  while the NBFIs are large in
number, they account for only 2% of the system's total deposits and 3% of
the system's total loans.



25.      The equity base of the Argentine institutional financial system
amounted to US$4.6 billion as of January 31, 1987. Of this 57% belonged to
public banks, 40% to private banks and 38 to NBFIs. The book ratio of the
system's total deposits to its equity appears to be extremely low (3:1).
However, the capital of the banks is grossly overstated for the fcllowing
reaso.s: (i) real estate amounts to about 75% of the system's equity, but
is carried on the books at prices well above actual market values; and
(ii) the quality of the system's loan portfolio has deteriorated,
compromising a substantial proportion of its capital and reserves (for
which adequate provisions have not been made).
26.      As of August 31, 1987,  there were also 20 institutions under
Central Bank intervention and 180 in liquidation.  The number and size of
the liquidations have imposed a substantial cost and operational burden for
which the CBA was not prepared.
27.      In addition to banks and NBFIs, the financial system is composed
of 241 insurance companies, a Government-owned reinsurance company, 5 stock
exchanges (of which the largest is in Buenos Aires accounting for about 97%
of total transactions), private brokerage firms and investment companies
(mutual funds), and a Government-owned pension fund.   Furthermore,  there
are informal markets whic:i perform over-the-counter trading in securities
and provide financial services such as linking companies with excess funds
to others requiring funding and providing guarantees.   These markets are
known as the "extra-bursatil" market and the "intercompany" market.   Both
have grown rapidly in recent years, the latter at the expense of the formal
banking system.
PART III - MAIN BANKING SECTOR ISSUES
28.      The main issues affecting the banking system are:  (a) the lack of
confidence in economic policy and in the soundness of financial
institutions which has resulted in the shallowness of the financial system;
(b) the over-regulation of the system which has led to the segmentation of
deposit and lending markets, high forced investments, reserve requirements
and a large intermediation role of the Central Bank; and (c) high banking
costs and interest rates resulting in a high cost of credit.
3.1 LACK OF CONFIDENCE IN THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
29.      The economic and financial difficulties of the recent past have
had a strong impact on Argentina's financial sector.   The macroeconomic
instability has not only demonetized the economy, but has also resulted in
disintermediation affecting banks, non-bank financial intermediaries and
the securities markets.   The rapid growth of the informal market is an
indicator of this disintermediation process. Not only have real financial
savings declined, but the maturity of financial assets has shortened
dramatically.  At present, maturities of over 30 days are considered long
term in Argentina. As a result, the use of capital market instruments has
been discouraged.   High and fluctuating  inflation has been a major
hindrance to the development of Argentina's securities markets and
institutional investors. The public pension fund system and the insurance
business have been severely affected by inflation.   Sluggish economic
growth and high inflation and interest rates, together with uncertainty



- 8 -
over future economic and political developments, led to reductions in
investment needs, and encouraged firms to limit their indebtedness and
finance their operations with internally generated resources.
30.      In addition to inflation,  inappropriate exchange rate policies
also help explain the disintermediation process that characterizes the
Argentine financial sector. The overvaluation of the domestic currency in
the late 1970s and its ultimate consequences--capital flight and successive
devaluations--have made domestic asset holders wary of policies that fix
exchange rates in a scenario of high inflation. Therefore, the maintenance
of low and stable rates of inflation, together with a realistic exchange
rate, are key elements in any program to foster resource mobilization
throughout domestic markets.
3.1.1 Shallow Financial Sector
31.      Financial  depth can be measured by the ratio of a monetary
aggregaFe (such as M3 or M4) to GDP, with M3 defined to include money,
quasi-molaey, and bankers acceptances, while M4 also includes deposits
indexed to inflation; and also by following real trends in these monetary
aggregates. These aggregates have fluctuated widely since the early 1970s.
M3/GDP peaked at 30% in the third quarter of 1974 and reached its val:ey at
8% in the second quarter of 1976. After recovering to 25% in 1980, M3/CDP
experienced an almost continual decline through the second quarter of t9RS
(9%) when the Plan Austral was launched.   The Plan Austral brotnght high
real rates and boosted confidence which produced a substantial rise in the
stock of real deposits.   As a result,  M3/GDP increased significantly,
averaging 17% during the last three quarters of 1986.  The data also shows
similar trends for M4/GDP and for real M3 and M4.  Tnese trends highlight
the disintermediation which has occurred in the Argentine economy in recent
years.   Depositors realized that the real value of their financial assets
was being eroded by inflation.   As a consequence, many of them shifted
their assets either out of the country or out of the finaacial sector.  A
related indicator of the disintermediation process is the significant
reduction in total credit outstanding as a percentage of GDP.   Credit
outstanding declined from 29.5% of GDP ln 1982 to 12.4% in 1985 before
rebounding to 16% in 1986.



-9 -
Table 1: iOIrwYRITAL I I IST USATS AND FIANCJAL DEPTU
1980  1981  1982  1943  1984  1985  1986  1987
In percentages:
Reg. dep. rate ^1  0.3    01    -3.7    -2.8    -3.7    -1.8    -0.5    -1.0
Free dep. rate j/  0.3  0.5    -2.5  1.4  0.6  1.:  1.1  1.0
M43/GDP         25  24  17  11  12  12  17
34/GDP          32  29  21  13  14  17  20
In March 1985
billion Australes:
Real  13        8.5  7.5  5.8  4.4   4.0  3.9  5.7
Real 34        10.9  9.1  7.2  5.2   4.7  5.3  6.7
1I Quarterly average of monthly rate (deflated by combined index
of WPI and CPI). Fouxth quarter data for all years excluding
1987. Second quarter data for 1987.
Source: Central Bank of Argenttna.
32.      The impact of interest rates on resource mobilizatiocn can be
measured by comparirg trends in interest rates with those of monetary
aggregates, which are used as a proxy to estimate the financial depth of
the economy (Table 1 and Graph 2).  The comparison of real interest rates
and monetary aggregates for the 1980s shows that financial savings do
respond to the real level c.f interest rates, even though the return to
positive interest rates (for non-regulated deposits) since 1985 has not
fully reversed the reduction in the ratios of M3 and M4 to GDP or that of
real M3 and real M4.  This would suggest that the public either expects
higher inflation in the future (and, therefore, deflating current nominal
rates by ex Dost inflation probably overestimates real rates) or that the
differential between returns on austral-denominated assets and that on
foreign assets is not large enough to compensate for the risk of unexpected
more rapid devaluation cf the austral.   In any event,  to restore
depositors' confidence and increase mobilization of domestic resources, it
will be necessary to maintain positive real rates while lowering the rate
and variability of inflation.



- 10 -
GRAPH 2
REAL M3 & REAL DEPOSIT RATES
(1985 Bill. Aust., x)
10.
B
4-
+\ t . d.f   ...Real  113
_28           5MII                        4               > t  +~ Reg.  Rates
-4t  Free Rates
-6e 
-Z  b                ~~~~+
78   79   80   81   82   83   84   85   86
Quarters
3.1.2 Inadeguate Prudential Regulation
33.      The problems of the banking system have been compounded in recent
years by the weak position of the Central Bank and its organizational
deficiencies.   Major problems have been found in banking supervision
(particularly in the loan portfolio classification system, accounting
rules, information disclosure, and supervision of public banks), and in the
intervention and liquidation of problem banks.
Banking Supervision and Regulations
34.      Insufficient Banking Supervision.   The major problem affecting
banking supervision is the lack of focus in assessing the overall solvency
of  the  financial  institutions.    The  banking  superintendency--
organizationally part of CBA--has traditionally concentrated on compliance
with the complicated CBA rules on reserve requirements, forced investments
and interest rates, while analysis of loan portfolio quality and operating
efficiency has been largely overlooked.   This has limited the banking
superintendency's capacity to take timely actions to stop unsound financial
practices.   Similarly,  the inability to force insolvent institutions to
exit the market at an early stage of insolvency has resulted in substantial
losses to CBA and weakened depositors'  confidence.    In particular,  the
following shortcomings can be highlighted:
(a) Inadequate Loan Portfolio Classification System. The most serious
problem is the lack of an adequate loan portfolio classification
system according to risk of default. The current system does not



- 11 -
have a precise definition of the different risk categories,
leaving the interpretation to the financial institutions.   In
addition, the present classification is not reviewed periodically
through on-site  inspections  (on average  each institution  is
visited once in three years, with cases wh-re institutions have
not been visited  in more  than  five years).    The  banking
superintendency also has insufficient information on loans to
related parties. All of this causes the banking superintendency
to have a limited knowledge of the solvency situation of each
intermediary; this limits its capacity to require timely
corrective actions or to predict possible failures.   It also
limits the Central Bank's capacity to attract potential buyers of
ailing institutions since the amount of losses that have to be
absorbed is not clear.
(b) Distorted Accounting Rules. According to current rules, it is up
to each bank to decide whether the accrual of interest income on
doubtful loans should be discontinued.   In practice, most banks
continue accruing interest on loans in arrears until the
borrower's bankruptcy, thus distorting their income statements.
Similarly, loan loss provisions become obligatory only after a
borrower has been declared bankrupt. Another problem lies in the
revaluation of fixed assets according to the wholesale price index
rather than based on market values, leading to an overvaluation of
real estate assets.
(c) Lack of Information Disclosure. Publicly available informatior; on
the performance of individual banks  is severely limited.   A
monthly Central Bank publication (available with a three- to four-
month lag) contains balance sheet figures of individual
institutions but does not show income statements or information of
loans in arrears. Balance sheets and income statements are being
published once a year in the Government's official gazette but
with little disaggregation. This lack of information limits both
the capacity of depositors to discriminate between institutions
and the capacity of the Central Bank to force depositors to assume
at least part of the losses of failing banks.
(d)  Difficulties  in Controlling  Public  Banks.    The  banking
superintendency has severe difficulties when trying to control
public banks (especially provincial banks) either because of their
political power or legal autonomy.   This not only limits  the
capacity of the banking superintendency to require sound practices
from public banks but is also a form of discrimination against
private  banks.    This  is especially  true when considering
compliance with reserve requirements or similar regulations.
Dealing with Problem Banks
35.      Interventionl and liquidation cum deposit insurance have been the
more common ways to deal with the large number of problem banks in
Intervention means the removal of existing management by the Central
Bank and appointment of a "delegate" as Its representative.



- 12 -
Argentina in the last few years. CBA's objective has been to maintain
stability and confidence in the system while attempting to strengthen the
financial sector and promote its redimensioning. To attain this objective,
CBA is financing almost all deposit protection actions, and the lengthy and
ineffective processes of intervention and liquidation, as well as the
recapitalization of banks that are sold to other institutions.  Financing
these actions involves sizeable losses for CBA. However, confidence in the
system is not being maintained and the system is only gradually being
redimensioned.
36.      The present policy of CBA is to give priority to interventions
rather than to liquidations, in order to maintain the stability of the
system. However, since the public knows that most interventions lead to a
liquidation, the run on deposits, mainly by unprotected depositors, is
dramatic. In some of the recent interventions, withdrawals amounted to 90%
of total deposits.   When an institution is intervened all deposits and
withdrawals, whether protected or not by current deposit insurance
regulations, are covered by CBA. Since 1980, 77 banks and other financial
institutions, all of them private, have been intervened by CBA (8
institutions were intervened in the first semester of 1987).  Most of them
were later liquidated.
37.      The management of intervened banks is entrusted by CBA to 2-3
"delegates" per bank, hired to that effect. The "delegates" do not receive
instructions from CBA as to the policies they should apply, except for
ceposit interest rates, which are  to bc kept at market levels.   Both
recruitment difficulties  and  lack of management directives  lead  to a
bureaucratic approach to the management of intervened institutions. The
real economic situation of the intervened bank is not always verified,
minor management restructuring measures are applied (other than sale of
real estate) and commercial activities are neglected.  The possibility of
selling an intervened bank is seriously hampered by the small number of
sound potential buyers among domestic banks and by discrimination against
foreign banks.   All this makes the sale of intervened banks difficult,
extends the duration of the intervention period, and frequently dooms the
banks to late and costly liquidations.
38.      If a liquidation is decided, the existing deposit insurance fund
Is drawn upon to cover deposits up to a limit of A 60,000 for current
accounts and A 15,000 for savings and time deposits.  This fund is only an
account in the Central Bank, funde.d by those private banks which choose to
be members of this deposit protection scheme.  Their monthly contribution
is 0.003% of total deposits.   If the fund is depleted or CBA decides to
cover deposits beyond the limits set by the current regulations, GBA itself
provides the fi;nding to pay off depositors. CBA also finances salaries and
overhead of banks in liquidation as well as miscellaneous expenditures
(legal procedures, severance pay. etc.).  Up to the October 1987 reform
that eliminated all controls on deposit interest rates, only regulated
deposits--i.e., those subject to interest rate controls--were eiigible for
deposit insurance.
39.      Until  recently,  the  administration  of  failed  financial
institutions by CBA has been lengthy and ineffective, basically because of:
(i) lack of experienced staff and management; (ii) legal and bureaucratic



- 13 -
constraints; (iii) lack of proper accounting and information systems,
including adequate computerization; (iv) legal actions by the previous
shareholders to block or reverse the liquidation process; and
(v) ineffective recovery of the loan portfolio (over 90% of the assets to
be liquidated).   Of the 180 financial  institutions  presently under
liquidation, including banks and other financial institutions, 15 have been
going on for over 10 years and 75 for over 5 years.  Twelve liquidations
were started in 1986/87 (si:x each year).
40.      The staff of the banks in liquidation in the last few years has
been reduced from 20,216 to 2,813 through severance and sale of branches to
other banking  institutions.   Most  of the real estate of banks  in
liquidation has been sold (about 1,6(0 properties were liquidated in the
last two years); and a new management team appointed in 1986 is improving
considerably the effectiveness of the liquidation process.   However,  the
key issue continues to be the slow recovery of the loan portfolio which
maintains a large number of borrowers in an uncertain situation and
unnecessarily increases CBA losses.
41.      The need for improvements  in the system of intervention and
liquidation is urgent, since the achievement of sound sales and mergers,
alongside efficient liquidations, is the key element for a successful
policy of restructuring and redimensioning of the system.   The overall
treatment of private problem banks should follow a different strategy, and
use different institutional me('l-nisms to overcome the serious handicaps
constraining proper sales and me O,ers.
3.1.3 Weak Financial Condition of Panks
42.      The country's economic and financial difficulties of recent years
have contributed to low operating returns to most banks.  The analysis of
annual information for a large sample of banks covering 1982 through 1986,
and of more detailed information for all banks during 1986, shows a
continuous decline in their return on equity and a weakening of their loan
portfolios.   However, the actual situation is even worse since published
financial statements contain insufficient provisions for potential loan
losses and include accrued but unpaid interest on doubtful loans.
43.      As of March 1987, out of 152 private banks in operation (excluding
NBFIs), 9 were under CBA intervention, 18 were committed to a CBA-
controlled financial strengthening plan, 8 were deemed to need the adoption
of a similar plan, and 36 were on a special watchlist due to potential
solvency and/or liquidity problems.   Adjusted figures that portray the
status of the loan portfolio more realistically show that banks
representing nearly 26% of total banking assets have lost at least 50% of
their equity, while institutions accounting for 41% of total banking assets
have had negative real returns on equity in 1986.   This combination of
negative net worth and negative return on equity is worrisome, reflecting
technical bankruptcy and inability to generate resources internally to
recapitalize.   The financial difficulties of many banks--besides the
negative impact of the reserve requirements and forced investments which
will be analyzed in the following section--result from their large
irregular loan portfolios and high operating costs.



- 14 -
44.      Irregular Loans.   The banking system reports irregular loans2
amounting to about 92% of its total net worth, with 25% of net worth for
private banks and 141% for public banks. These figures probably understate
the magnitude of potential losses because of the inadequacy of the loan
portfolio classification system.   Furthermore, aggregate figures for the
groups conceal the magnitude of the loan portfolio weakness for specific
institutions.  For instance, as of March 1987, 36 banks (23 public and 13
private), representing 45% of total banking system assets, reported
irregular loans larger than their net worths.   The situation gets
compounded when the ratio of "problem" loans to net worth is estimated,
where problem loans are defined as the sum of irregular loans and
refinanced loans. As shown in Table 2, provincial and municipal banks show
the worst performance. If provisions for doubtful loans are deducted, the
percentage of irregular loans to net worth drops from 92% to 14%. However,
there is reasonable evidence indicating that risky loans are underestimated
and that net worth is overestimated (due to overvaluation of fixed assets).
While the insolvency of private banks is particularly worrisome because it
may result in public panic and deposit runs, that of public banks is too
because of the effect of CBA bailouts on the quasi-fiscal deficit.
Table 2: LOAN PORTFOLIO QUALITY INDICATORS a/
(as of March 1987, percenta%es)
Irregular
Irregular    Problem   loans net of
loans/    loans/   provisions/
net worth   not vorth   net worth
Official banks:
National               133.0       172.0       7.0
Provlncial/municipal   174.0       202.0      58.0
Total                141.0       176.0      17.0
Private banks:
Domstic                 32.0       41.0       13.0
Foreign                  9.0        11.0       6.0
Cooperative             25.0       30.0       14.0
Total                 p5.0       32.0       11.0
'tal banking system  92.0       116.0     14.0
I/ Zxcludes institutions with negative or insLgnificant net worth.
Source: Central Bank and IBRD staff estimates.
45.      Concerning profitability, Table 3 indicates the importance in the
market of unprofitable banks.  The analysis has been made using return on
equity (ROE) ratios computed on the basis of both reported figures and
2.1  irregular loans, according to Argentina's loan portfolio classification
system, include past-due loans, loans to potentially insolvent
borrowers, loans to borrowers under legal proceedings, and loans to
bankrupt borrowers or borrowers facing liquidation. Only normal loans
and refinanced loans are excluded.



- 15 -
adjusted figures.  Average reported figures per group of institutions are
reasonably good. However, the ratios vary greatly across institutions. A
total of 43 institutions, representing 15% of total banking assets, show
negative ratios:  1 public national bank, 7 provincial/municipal banks, 10
private domestic banks,  6 foreign banks,  and 19 cooperative banks.
Furthlermore, many institutions report overestimated results due to the
inclusion of accrued but unpaid interest on doubtful loans.  Figures were
adjusted to correct for this overestimation of profits.3   Adjusted figures
bring the number of unprofitable banks to 86.  The significance of the
market share of the institutions with negative adjusted ROEs--41% of total
banking assets--is a clear indication of the crisis characterizing the
Argentine banking system.
TSble 3: PBP7CM3TAGZ SNARE 0F UIPROFITASI BANKS t1"
According to        According to
reoorted figures    adiusted figures
Banks in  Unprofitable I in group  Unprofitable I in group
operation   banks     assets    banks     assets
Public banks:
NatLonal                    5          1        4          2        35
Provinctalimnicipal        29          7        25        18        60
Total                    34         8         9         20        41
Private banks:
Domestic                   58         10       21         23        39
Foreign                    31          6       24         10        44
Cooperative               54          19       36         33        S3
Total                   143        35        24         66        42
Total banking system    177        43        15         86        41
Sources: Central Bank and IBRD staff astimtes.
46.      Onerating Costs.  Operating costs are extremely high in Argentina.
The monthly ratio of operating costs to average total deposits stood at
1.77% in March 1987 for the whole financial system.  These are extremely
high figures by international standards (about four to five times higher
than the average OECD and non-inflationary LDCs).  These costs increased
dramatically between 1981 and 1985 (from 0.87% of total deposits a month to
about 1.80% of total deposits a month, respectively), and have remained
fairly stable at this level since then.
47.      There are three major reasons why operating costs are so high in
Argentina:
iJ Adjusted figures have been computed (i) estimating the 1986 average
percentage of irregular loans net of provisions to total loans;
(ii) applying this percentage to the value of 1986 financial income;
and (iii) subtracting the resulting figure from total net results to
obtain net adjusted results.



- 16 -
(a) the substantial demonetization and disintermediation of funds
experienced by Argentina's financial institutions, particularly
after the reforms of July 1982 (across-the-board debt relief
through negative real interest rates), has caused operating costs
to represent a growing proportion of intermediated resources; as a
result of the process of disintermediation there is an excessive
number of financial institutions and branches, given the present
size of the Argentine financial market;
(b)  the short maturitv of financial contracts which is typical of
economies characterized by high and variable inflation and
uncertainty; in the case of Argentina, there are practically no
deposits with maturities longer than 30 days (with an average of
about 19 days after the positive effects of the Plan Austral).
The continuous rollover of most operations represents an extra
burden on administrative costs (computer processing) and staffing;
and
(c) the excessive expansion of banks' branches even when the process
of demonetization and disintermediation was in full swing during
1982/83; this can be explained as an attempt to capture a greater
portion of the inflation tax, hedge against hyperinflation, or
increase market shares due to the expectation that reforms might
lead to restrictions on branch expansion.
3.2 OVER-REGULATION AND SEGMENTATION
48.      Notwithstanding the significant steps towards liberalization taken
in the last 12 months, the Government still controls important aspects of
the banking intermediation process.   The most pervasive elements of the
regulatory framework are the substantial reserve requirements and forced
investments on banks' deposits and the large influence of the Central Bank
in credit allocation through a large rediscount program. Through extremely
high reserve requirements and forced investments in non-negotiable Central
Bank bords, the Central Bank was able to appropriate an equivalent 66% of
total banking deposits as of March 1987 (20% in the form of reserve
requirements and 46% in the form of forced investments). This not only has
a negative impact on banks' profitability but severely limits the banking
system's role in the allocation of credit.  An important portion of these
funds, in turn, is recycled mostly to public banks in the form of multiple
Central Bank rediscount lines (Central Bank rediscounts amounted to an
equivalent 35% of total deposits as of March 1987). The explanation behind
this s gmentation is that the banking system has traditionally been used as
an important source of public sector deficit financing in Argentina. Such
financing has been done through high reserve requirements and forced
investments.
3.2.1  Segmentation of Deposit ard Credit Markets
49.      Up to the recent October 1987 reform that removed all controls on
interest rates, deposit and credit markets could be divided into three
segments:   the regulated segment subject to interest rate controls on
deposit and lending instruments, the unregulated or free segment which
since September 1986 was not subject to interest rate controls, and the



- 17 -
indexed segment (inflation- or foreign exchange-adjusted deposits and
loans).   Since the plan Austral, banks are not allowed to accept indexed
deposits; therefore their relative importance in total deposit liabilities
has declined significantly (Table 4).   The Government has increasingly
liberalized its stance toward free deposits in the last three years and as
a result the proportion of free de2osits to total deposits has increased
from less than 10% in December 1984 to over 50% in April 1987 (Table 4).
The Government succeeded in maintaining this segmentation through the use
of quotas on banks' ability to accept free deposits, by putting a floor on
the minimum amount required to make a free deposit and by discriminating
against free deposits on the access to deposit insurance.
Table 4: STRUCTURE oF DEPOSIT LIABILITIES IN THE tANKING SYSTUM
(in percentages)
Regulated          Time deposits
sLk,ht deposits  Regulated Free  Indexed  Total
December 1984      21.9       52.6   8.2  17.3   100.0
June 1985          22.7       51.1  15.9  10.3   100.0
December 1985      ,6.5        34.7  37.4  1.3   100.0
June 1986          23.9       33.9  41.4  0.8   100.0
December 1986      20.8       30.1  48.3  0.8   100.0
April 1987         15.1       10.7  53.3  0.8   100.0
Source: Central Bank of Argentini.
Reserve Requirements
50.      Reserve requirements on regulated deposits varied according to
maturity and bank type.  Demand deposits were subject to RRs amounting to
89.5%.   Reserve requirements on time deposits ranged between 16% (for
deposits between 7-14 days) and 8% (for deposits over 30 days).   Most
public provincial and municipal banks were not subject to these RRs.
51.      On September 30, 1986, the Central Bank implemented a reform which
lowered RRs on free deposits and eliminated forced investments on their
incremental growth.   RRs were lowered to 3% for free deposits with
maturities between 7 and 29 days, 1.5% for those with maturities from 30 to
89 days, and zero for those with maturities over 89 days from a previous
level of 7.5%.  The Central Bank has not been able to maintain these lower
RRs on a continuous basis since this is one of the few tools it currently
has to effect monetary control in a speedy manner. The October 1987 reform
not only eliminated regulated deposits but also extended these lower RRs to
all incremental time deposits. RRs on demand deposits were not changed.
Forced Investments
52.      In addition to reserve requirem_nts, banks had to keep certain
varying percentages of their deposits as forced investments (FIs) in non-
negotiable Central Bank bonds.   There were two types of FIs:  (a) those
which were a function of the total amount of deposits, thus vaiying in



- 18 -
direct proportion to changes in the respective deposit base (these FIs can
be regarded as remunerated RRs); and (b) those imposed on stocks of
deposits as of specific dates.   The largest first type of FIs was BONIN
which as of March 1987 amounted to about 5 of total deposits. The second
type of FIs consisted basically of DeRosito Indismonible and DENOR which as
of March 1987 represented 18% and 23% of total deposits, respectively.
After the October 1987 reform, the Central Bank is consolidating all FIs in
a single instrument which is expected to have some degree of negotiability.
3.2.2 Credit Allocation Through Central Bank Rediscount Lines
53.      The main issue regarding the allocation of credit in Argentina is
the pervasive role of the Central Bank as financial intermediary. Through
its policy of high RRs/Fls and rediscounts, the Central Bank directs a
large proportion of total credit in the financial system and in the process
it affects its allocation and the finances of the various banks.  Banks'
finances in some cases are improved because of preferential access to these
rediscounts, while in other cases they are worsened because of high RRs/FIs
and limited access to rediscount facilities.   Provincial banks and some
public nati nal banks have been the principal beneficiaries of the large
volume of rediscounts granted by the Central Bank. Since about two thirds
of the rediscounts are granted to the public banks,  the effective
immobilization of resources is substantially greater for private commercial
banks than for public banks.   The data in Table 5 show the considerable
importance of rediscounted credit in total credit.  While this proportion
has been gradually going down, at 42.4% of total credit it is still very
high.
able 5: BREAKDOWN OF CREDIT BY TYPE
(as a percantags of total credit)
Regulated  Indexed   Fres  Rediscounted  Total
1985 (December)   1.6      9.9     39.2    49.3      100
1986 (November)  11.5      4.1     40.6    43.7      100
1987 (March)     11.9      2.5     43.1    42.4      100
Sources: Central lank of Argentina and World Bank estimates.
54.      There are three major types of rediscounts:  (i) rediscounts for
export financing; (ii) rediscounts to support financial institutions under
intervention or liquidation; and (iii) other local currency rediscounts
(about 115 different lines, with various mechanisms for adjusting principal
and interest, representing about 75% of CBA's rediscount portfolio).  All
rediscounts are austral-denominated although rediscounts for export
financing adjust according to the exchange rate.  As shown in Table 6, as
of March 1987, CBA's rediscounts amounted to about A 6.5 billion (including
principal and capitalized interest and adjustments).   About 70% of the
rediscounts in australes are concentrated in 11 major lines.  These lines
include the following: lines to support Banco Hipotecario' operations and
finances, credits to provincial banks, seasonal agricultural credits, and



- 19 -
consolidated loan (to support banks' losses caused by the massive
rescheduling of liabilities in 1982).
li mtDISCOUNTS AS A PUCTAr OIF TOTAL DXPOSITS
(Nt.. 31.  1W7)
Redi&oountsI
Deposits  l.ditamtu  deotts
---- (in A mtiLa) ---   (in X)
Pubilo bank.                8,362     4.654      54.0
Private financial in.tltutLots    10,77a  1,796  16.7
Total                  18,307     6,480      35.4
Sourue: Central Bank of Argentine.
55.      The evolution of rediscounts over time is another interesting
trend to follow. Rediscounts started to be used in an important manner by
the Central Bank in 1982, however, they only grew explosively between late
1984 and mid-1986. Total rediscounts grew as a result of additional new
lines granted, extensions of existing lines, capitalization of unpaid
interest and inflation adjustments. Since mid-1986, which corresponds with
a new management at the Central Bank, the real growth of rediscounts has
been stemmed. The data show that curtailing the growth of rediscounts will
not only require reducing new rediscounts, but also tackling the inertial
growth of the existing stock of rediscounts.
Table 7: kXCElt EVOLUTION O CIA REDISCOUNT LIKES
(in A Millton of Jim 1985)
Princlpal   Accruals    Total
December 1984             228.6      721.7      950.3
June 1985                 815.3     1,805.3    2,620.6
December 1985           1,877.2     2,181.6    4,058.8
Jun 1986                2,037.5     2,315.2    4,352.7
December 1986           1,759.0     2,423.7    4,182.7
February 1987           1,654.1     2,570.1    4,224.2
Source: Central lank of ArSentL"a.
56.      Inadequate Administration of Rediscounts.   The Central Bank has
relied until very recently on information obtained from the individual
financial institutions to determine the exact stock of rediscounts, forced
investments and reserve requirements. The result has been a poorly managed
rediscount portfolio which has increased Central Bank losses. The Central
Bank is embarked on a program to modernize its procedures to manage its
portfolio of rediscounts.   It has recently implemented a computerized
system which will allow it to cross-check the accuracy of this information.
The Bank has been assisting It in this program, and a Project Preparation



- 20 -
Eacility was provided for this purpose. Once the processing of rediscounts
is fully computerized, the Central Bank will be able to maintain up-to-date
records of its portfolio, and therefore know with certainty its exposure to
individual banks.
57.       Bankwise Analysis of Net Position with Central Bank.   As a result
of the large intermediation role of CBA, many banks are net borrowers from
CBA (in the sense that the rediscounts obtained from CBA exceed their RRs
and FIs),  while  others  are net  lenders  to  it.   An  analysis  of  the net
position and iW.s composition by individual anks is critical to preparing a
viable proposal for reducing the Central Bank's role.
58.       A breakdown  of  financial  institutions  by  type  of  ownership  and
indebtedness to CBA shows that out of the 294 institutions, 65 were net
borrowers  from  the  Central  Bank.    The  total  net  debt  of  these  65
institutions  amounted  to  A  3.7  billion.    Table  8  provides  detailed
information on the composition of the net debt by type of institution and a
breakdown of its major components (rediscounts, forced investments and
reserve requirements).   Net indebtedness  to the Central Bank,  however,  is
not evenly spread among them. Banco Hipotecario and BANADE are the largest
debtors with 29.7% and 5.6% of CBA's net lending, respectively, followed by
an intervened private bank with 4% and three provincial banks with debts
totalling 9% of CBA's net lending to the financial system.   Thus,  almost
50% of CBA's net lending to the financial system is concentrated in six
large institutions.
Table S: REDISCOUNTS, RESERVE REQUIREMENTS AND FORCED INVESTMENTS
NET POSITION WITS CENTRAL BANK (AS OF MARCH 31, 1987)
(in A million and percentages)
As Percentage of Total Deposits
Reserve
require-
ment +
Reserve  Forced   Total         Total  Reserve Forced  forced
Total  require- invest-  redis-   Not   redis- require- Invest- Invest-
Bank group           deposits   mont    ment   count  positLon count    Ment   aunt  mcnt
Fublic national banks
I Bank of Provincia
Buenos Alres        6,479.7 1,334.9  3,427.2 3,448.3 -1,313.8  53.2    20.6   52.9  73.5
Provincial & nunicipal
banks               1,882.7    0.0    15.3 1,236.0  1,220.7  65.7    0.0    0.8   0.8
Local private banks   5.258.0   834.7  3,006.8 1,212.8 -2,628.7  23.1   15.9   57.2   73.1
Foreign banks         2,610.1   395.6  1,355.7   325.7 -1,425.5  12.5   15.2   51.9   67.1
Cooperative banks     1,584.5  297.4   990.2   87.5 -1,200.1   5.5    18.8   62.5   81.3
Finance companies       351.5   18.7   217.0   86.0  -149.7  24.5    5.3   61.7   67.0
Savings & loan
associations            96.6    6.4    98.1   70.0   -34.5  72.5    6.7   101.5  108.2
Credit copanies         38.0    2.4    32.0   10.5   -23.9  27.8    6.4    84.2   90.6
Investment banks         6.1    0.3       6.1    3.1    -3.4  50.7    5.4   100.1  105.5
Total banks      18,307.2 2,890.4  9,148.5 6,480.0 -5,558.9  35.4    15.8   50.0   65.8
Source: Central Bank of Argentina.



- 21 -
59.      Im21ications.   T.he regulatory regime described  in the previous
paragraphs--reserve requirements, forced investments and CBA rediscounts--
has several important implications:
(a) The high level of RRs and FIs severely limits discretionary
lending  by  the  banking  system.    The  CBA,  in  turn,  has  a
preponderant role in credit allocation through the rediscount
mechanism.
(b) The Fresent set of regulations has contributed to the high
interest rates on banks' free loans and to the poor returns on
bank equity. The banks' lending capacity is reduced by the large
amount of FIs and RRs, generating pressures on the spread between
deposit and lending rates.   A sensitivity analysis made by Bank
staff using November 1986 figures shows that, under the present
set of regulations, banks would have to charge nearly 5% a month
in real terms on free loans to get ,. reasonable return on equity
(a return on equity similar to opportunity costs).
(c) From a macroeconomic standpoint, the Central Bank runs large
los3es in its intermediation role, since the average interest rate
it pays on FIs is higher than the interesc rate it charges on its
rediscounts. For example, in November 1986, the average difference
between these rates was about 1.5%  (per month).   The resulting
loss is a major cause of the Central Bank's quasi-fiscal deficit
(if we simply annualize this loss, we obtain an estimated loss of
more than 1% of GDP).
(d) This degree of segmentation generates important transfers among
agents in the financial system that are difficult to quantify,
although the broad groups of winners and losers can be identified.
The recipients of rediscounted loans at preferential interest
rates  belong  to the most  favored group.   The recipieints of
regulated loans do nearly as well. The burden of these transfers
falls upon the banks' shareholders, borrowers at free rates, and
the holders of regulated demand and time deposits.
(e)  The performance  of Argentine banks  is very sensitive  to the
relative amounts of FIs and RRs, as well as to the yield on these
investments.   Since these instruments are a form of taxation, the
higher their relative amounts or the lower their yields, the
stronger is the upward pressure on spreads or the lower the
returns on bank equity. Furthermore, the impact of the mechanism
when rediscounts are included is uneven.   This is clear if we
consider that public banks are the largest rediscount recipients.
3.3  HIGH COSI OF CREDI'T
60.      A major issue affecting Argentina's economic recovery is the high
cost  of credit.   As  shown in Table 9, monthly real  interest  rates,
particularly free lending rates, have been very high for most of the last
two years (excluding the third quarter of 1986 when rates became sharply
negativ, because of an unexpected surge in inflation). High lending rates,
which reflect both high deposit rates and large spreads, hinder the
resumption of investmer,t.



- 22 -
ZTkls 9: RRAL ISTZST RArlS, 1982-57 g/
(monthly averages for the quarter: percentage)
Real reaulated Lnterest rates                   Real free interest rates
Annualized                                   AnIzul Lsed
Lending   Deposit    Spread    spread    LendLng   Deposit    Spread    spread
1982   1         0.67       -0.54      1.21      15.49        0.28      -0.38       0.66       8.25
II        0.87       -0.34      1.21      15.51        1.05       0.01       1.04      13.24
III      -10.14      -10.90      0.76       9.49       -7.03      -8.84       1.80      23.85
rv       -2.64       -3.09      0.45       5.52        1.40      -0.91       2.30      31.42
1983   I        -1.88       -2.59      0.71       8.82        1.08      -0.11       1.18      15.18
II       -0.43        -1.33     0.90      11.35        3.31       1.27       2.04      27.43
III        -3.84       -4.69     0.85      10.70        2.80       1.52        1.28     16.44
IV       -1.76        -2.61     0.85      10.70        3.88       2.89       0.99      12.58
1984   l        -3.77       -4.64      0.86      10.86       -1.90      -2.77       0.86      10.86
(I       -3.49       -4.34      0.85      10.65        1.00       0.09       0.90      11.39
II         -3.91       -5.14     1.23      15.83       -1.53      -2.46       0.93      11.76
IV         0.97      -0.73      1.70      22.38        8.70       7.58       1.12      14.30
1985   I        -2.15       -3.77      1.62      21.33        1.21       0.40       0.81      10.19
rI       -4.87       -6.39      1.52      19.82        1.25      -2.67       3.92      58.66
III         2.97        1.50     1.47      19.15        5.33       4.45       0.88      11.12
IV        2.81         1.43     1.38      17.84        4.06       3.53       0.52       6.48
1986   I         2.52        1.14      1.37      17.78        3.45       2.70       0.75       9.37
II        0.59       -0.75      1.35      17.41        0.62       0.30       0.3e       3.92
rII       -1.38        -2.75     1.37      17.68       -0.98      -1.32       0.34       4.18
IV        1.80        0.37      1.43      18.57        2.37       2.75      -0.38      -4.48
1987   I        -1.01       -2.13      1.12      14.31        0.30      -0.54       0.84      10.57
II        1.17        0.22      0.95      12.06        3.24       2.70       0.54       6.72
*/ Deflated by the percantage change of the quarterly average of the WPI and CPI.
Sources: C.F. Macroeconomia a;id IBRD staff estL tes.
61.          High  deposit  ral-es  are  mainly  the  result  of:                       (i)  the  domestic
financing of large public sector deficits which sets a very high floor for
domestic  interest rates  (in the last few months Government bonds have
implied a return to investors of not less than 20% a year in real terms);
(ii)  the public's  fears of abrupt devaluations or explosive inflation,
resulting in additional pressures over interest rates in the form of risk
premiums; and (iii) the financial system's weak financial condition which
also implies an element of extra risk in depositors'  decisions.   Large
spreads,  in turn,  are basically explained by:   (i)  the high reserve
requirements and substantial forced investments resulting from the use of
the financial system as an important source of public sector deficit
financing, including the financing of Central Bank losses (quasi-fiscal
deficit); (ii) an important proportion of non-earning assets in the
financial system (non-performing loans and fixed essets); and (iii) the



- 23 -
financial system's high operating costs, which result from the strong
demonetization and the extremely short-term nature of most financial
operations.
62.      As discussed earlier,  up to the recent October  1987 reform,
financial resources flow mainly through two broad segments:   free and
regulated.   Accordingly,  there were two important intermediation spreads.
Graph 3 depicts the evolution of the annualized real intermediation spreads
for these two segments between 1982 and 1987.   Larger spreads in the
regulated segment are possibly explained as an attempt by CBA to compensate
banking institutions for the substantial reserve requirements and forced
investments imposed on regulated deposits.
GRAPH 3
REAL ANNUALIZED SPREADS
(Percentages)
581
48--       o
38.                                                          Regulated
2 0.                                                         Free
-101
82       83        84       85       86        87
Quarters
63.      There has also been a wide dispersion of Interest  rates on
deposits, rediscounts, FIs an4 loans across segments.   Interest rates on
regulated deposits were kept at levels closs to inflation for most of the
Plan Austral.   Interest rates on non-regulated deposits were allowed to
fluctuate  freely,  and were  generally positive  in real terms.    CBA
rediscounts, on average, carried interest rat-; ve;y similar to regulated
deposit rates.  Rates on FIs in the regulated segmant were above the rates
on regulated deposits, while on the non-regulated segment they were roughly
equal to the free deposit rate. Regulated and rediscounted loans had rates
slightly above  inflation.   Finally,  interest rates on free loans were
extremely high in real terms (over 3% a month above inflation during
several months).



- 24 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED BANKING SECTOR LOAN
4.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE LOAN AND MAIN COMPONENTS
64.      Argentina's banking system is hindering the country's economic
recovery. Low monetization and resource mobilization through the banking
system, serious financial difficulties in a large number of banking
institutions, large segmentation of deposit and credit markets together
with scarce and costly credit for the private sector, make it difficult to
achieve efficiency in investment and growth. To help solve these problems,
the proposed Banking Sector Loan contains a set of reforms designed to
achieve the following objectives:   (i) increase deposit mobilization and
confidence in the banking system; (ii) improve the allocation of credit;
and  (iii)  reduce  the cost of credit.   The proposed loan has two main
components: a policy component and a technical assistance component. The
policy component involves reforms aimed at achieving the three previously
mentioned objectives. The technical assistance component includes support
in various aspects of banking supervision and control.   A policy matrix
spelling out the objectives of the proposed loan, major issues, measures
already taken by the Government, measures to be taken under the loan, and
proposed timing, is contained in Annex VI.
65.      The Government  is aware of the serious problems affecting the
banking system and since September 1986 has been implementing important
reforms to solve them. The proposed Banking Sector Loan would give credit
for these refurms and would also support additional reforms as described in
the following section. The complex nature of financial sector reforms makes
it advisable to proceed in a gradual way.   For this reason,   the present
loan focuses on improving the structure of incentives (regulations)  that
govern banking markets.   Possible future loans could focus on further
restructuring certain public and provincial banks and on the development of
capital markets (with special emphasis on insurance companies, pension
funds, and equity financing).
4.2 DESCRIPTION OF MAIN REFORMS
4.2.1 Increasing DeRosit Mobilization and Confidence in the Banking System
66.      Liberalization of Deposit Rates.   With the purpose of increasing
deposit mobilization through domestic markets, the Government has recently
announced the elimination of all controls on savings and time deposit
interest  rates  (October  1987).   This  reform completes  a process of
deregulation of deposit rates initiated in September/October 1986 when
controls on the growth of free deposits were substantially reduced.   Free
deposits have been experiencing an important growth since then.   As a
consequence of this reform, lending rates on all loans financed with
deposits are also free. This reform is a major step in the deregulation of
the banking industry.
67.      Improving Prudential Regulation.   With the purpose of gradually
forcing banks to show their real condition in their financial statements
and thus expediting the rationalization of the system, the Government has
amended key accounting regulations.   The loan classification system has
been redesigned to provide more objective classification criteria, and



- 25 -
interest accruals are not possible on non-performing loans.   In addition,
the Government will enact a new regulation establishing a revised system of
loan loss provisions to cover more adequately the risk of default
asso_iated with each loan. At present, provisions are mandatory only with
respect to borrowers that have declared bankruptcy. The revised regulation
will expand the provisioning criteria to cover all non-performing loans,
including past-due loans. This new regulation will be enacted by the time
of loan effectiveness.   Through the tightening of these regulations,
problem banks will be forced to recognize already existing losses in their
balance sheets and income statements and adjust their equity accordingly.
If the resulting adjusted equity were to be lower than the capital adequacy
standards established by the Central Bank, banks would be forced to raise
new capital, merge, enter into the deposit insurance scheme mentioned
below, or leave the market.
68.      Establishment of a Deposit Insurance Corporation.   In order to
expedite--in the most cost-effective way--the  solution of both  the
overdimension and the widespread solvency problems affecting the banking
system, it is important for the Government to have an effective mechanism
to handle ailing banks. For this purpose, the Government will establish an
autonomous Deposit Insurance Corporation--similar to the American FDIC or
the  Spanish  Deposit  Guarantee  Fund--to assist  the process  of bank
rehabilitatien.   The main objective  of the corporation would be to
restructure insolvent banks, if so decided, or alternatively to liquidate
them. The corporation would be financed by fees from participating banks,
complemented,  if required,  by advances  from the Central Bank.   The
corporation would Le entitled to perform a widc gamut of activities to
rehabilitate or liquidate banks with a view to minimizing costs.
Rehabilitation activities would include lending, purchase of assets, and
recapitalization.   In the latter case,  existing shareholders would lose
their invested capital and control of the bank. The corporation would then
assume ownership and control until new owners are found.   These owners
could either be domestic or foreign.
69.      In  the  case  of a liquidation,  deposit  insurance would be
restricted to small deposits.   This would reduce the corporation's losses
and enhance depositors'  discipline.   In the October 1987 reform,  the
Government ratified its policy to insure only small deposits and, in line
witn Bank recommendations, it expanded this limited insurance to all small
deposits (previously, only regulated deposits were eligible for insurance).
The Government will send the draft law establishing the Deposit Insurance
Corporation for Bank comments by May 31,  1988.   The Bank has already
provided the Central Bank with a note describing the main characteristics
that, in its view, should govern such a corporation.   A summary of these
characteristics has been incorporated in the Government's Letter of
Financial Policy (Annex V).  The Bank will review the draft legislation to
ensure consistency with the Letter of Financial Policy before it is
submitted to the Borrower's Congress which is a condition for second
tranche release. Until the establishment of this Corporation, the Central
Bank will implement and maintain in effect adequate procedures and measures
for the restructuring or liquidation of insolvent banking institutions.
These procedures and measures will be consistent with the draft law
establishing the Deposit Insurance Corporation now under preparation.



- 26 -
70.      Information Disclosure.  The Government will increase information
disclosure on the financial condition of banking institutions.   This will
help to increase public scrutiny on both public and private banks and allow
depositors to discriminate among different institutions.   CBA has already
instructed banks to keep at their premises information for the public on
their assets and liabilities, loans to related parties, main shareholders
or other persons with voting decision, members of the board of directors,
and external auditors.   Before second tranche release, CBA will formally
communicate to all banking institutions that it will publish their
respective financial statements, including balance sheets and detailed
statements of income and expenses, semianually in its monthly bulletin,
such publication to commence with the June 1989 issue.
71.      Inflation and Exchange Rates.   In order to reduce the negative
impact on deposit mobilization of high and variable rates of inflation and
unstable exchange rates, the Government is committed to a macroeconomic
program consistent with a reduction in the inflation rate and the
maintenance of a current account deficit compatible with available foreign
financing.   As a condition of loan effectiveness  and second tranche
release, the Bank has to be satisfied that the macroeconomic policy
framework of the Borrower--including its fiscal, monetary, and exchange
rate policies--is consistent with the objectives of the banking sector
reform.
4.2.2 ImDroving Credit Allocation
72.      Reduction  in Reserve Reguirements  and Elimination of Forced
Investments on Incremental Time Deposits.  In order to increase the banking
system's discretionary lending and reduce the tax imposed on banking
intermediation, in September 1986 the Government substantially reduced
minimum legal reserve requirements and eliminated forced investments on
incremental non-regulated deposits.   Incremental deposits are defined as
deposit increases in real terms.  In the recent reform package of October
1987, the Government expanded these lower RRs to all incremental time
deposits. Accordingly, reserve requirements on incremental deposits are 3%
for deposits with maturities between /-29 days; 1.5% for deposits between
30-89 days; and zero for deposits over 89 davs.   Forced investments on
incremental deposits are zero. As a result of this reform, average RRs and
FIs will gradually come down as deposits increase in real terms.   This
reform has caused an important transfer of resources from the informal
markets to the institutionalized banking system, since the latter is now in
a much better competitive situation when deposit increases in real terms
take place.   It has been agreed with the Central Bank that RRs on
incremental deposits can be increased on a temporary basis by no more than
5 percentage points for monetary management purposes.
73.      Rationalization of Central Bank Rediscounts.   Rationalization of
CBA rediscounts is a key condition for restoring the banking system's
capacity to intermediate and allocate resources efficiently.   The program
to rationalize rediscounts includes the following:
(a) The net flow of Central Bank rediscounts to be extended during
calendar year 1988 (i.e., new rediscounts less total repayments of
previously extended rediscounts) has to be negative. This implies



- 27 -
that the Central Bank will not have to raise reserve requirements
or forced investments to finance the new rediscounts to be
extended in 1988. The Central Bank will provide the Bank with the
rediscount program for 1988--in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank--before loan effectiveness. Compliance with this program
is a condition  of second  tranche  release.   The  following
rediscounts will not be included in the program: (i) rediscounts
extended to financial institutions for the purposes of either
maintaining their liquidity or improving their financial position
to comply with requirements of the banking superintendency; and
(ii) rediscounts either financed from external multilateral
sources or required, by agreements reached before the date of this
loan, as counterpart funding by external multilateral financing
sources,   The redis^urnts ev--As enr finanri1 fnstitutions to
maintain their liquidity are related to the traditional functions
of central banks as lenders of last resort.   They are strictly
short term and designed to help financial institutions overcome
temporary cash-flow problems.   The  rediscounts  extended  to
financial institutions to improve their financial position to
comply with requirements of the banking superintendency would be
granted only in the context of specific restructuring plans for
individual institutions. In no case can these rediscounts be used
to finance specific lending activities or granted without the
existence of a restructuring program.
(b)  During calendar year 1988 the Central Bank will cancel/Jconsolidate
an amount of rediscounts equal to at least 15% of the Central Bank
rediscounts outstanding as of December 31, 1.987, by applying to
these rediscounts an equivalent amount of the forced investments
maintained by banking institutions with the Central Bank.
Although further reductions in the stock of rediscounts would be
desirable, they are difficult because:   (i) the long-term nature
of many loans financed with redisrounts means that a substantial
portion of the existing stock of rediscounts will dissipate only
over time; and (ii) an important proportion of the rediscount
portfolio may never be recovered because it was given to public
banks in financial difficulties, or directed to borrowers with
uncertain repayment capacity.   Rediscounts  to institutions now
under liquidation as well as those extended to currently operating
institutions to support specific restructuring plans are excluded
from this consolidation process. In the first case, there are no
forced investments against which consolidation can be made.   In
the second case, the restructuring plans now under way would be
disrupted by this consolidation.   Compliance with this measure is
a condition for second tranche release.
(c)  All Central Bank rediscounts to be extended during calendar year
1988 will be presented to Congress, together with the nation's
general budget.   This presentation will identify each rediscount
line together with its cost to the Central Bank. This reform will
incre_se transparency and subject CBA rediscounts to similar
congressional  scrutiny as other fiscal expenditures.   This is
especially needed in the cases of rediscounts provided to BHN
(Banco Hipotecario) and provincial banks.   These rediscounts,  in



- 28 -
most cases, are simply financing Government programs in housing
and provincial  government  deficits.    Presentation  of  the
rediscount program to Congress is a condition of loan
effectiveness.   Rediscounts to financial institutions to support
their liquidity or restructuring, and rediscounts associated with
external credit lines, will not be included in this presentation.
(d) As a result of the October 1987 reform that eliminated regulated
deposits, 50% of CBA rediscounts that previously had an interest
rate based on the regulated deposit rate now have an interest rate
based on free market deposits.   In most periods,  the regulated
deposit rate was either negative or zero in real terms.   This
reform discourages the use of CBA rediscounts and reduces CBA
S  V *  is_ ~6      t   _.                           v 5C  _ 5 uj. s  s;t_  .s*   ..    oss  s   >   si
fiscal deficit) are reduced by an amount equivalent to 0.5% of GDP
per year as a %conseauence of this reform.  The estimated average
interest rate tn be charged by CBA to financial institutions in
the 1988 rediscount program is 9.1% per year in real terms. Only
three lines--related to emergency situations in the rural sector
and to support small-sized rural cooperatives--still have negative
interest rates in real terms. Nevertheless, these lines amount to
less than 1% of the 1988 rediscount program.
(e)  Streamlining of rediscount management.   Inadequate rediscount
management has resulted in significant losses for the CBA.  With
the support of the Bank, an information system has now been
designed that enables the computerized processing of the different
lines.   (A US$100,000  Proiect Preparation Facility has been
granted by the World Bank to support the whole process.)   The
implementation of rhis information system is an important step
toward a streamlined rediscount administration.
4.2.3 Reducing the Cost of Credit
74.      Reduction of the Consolidated Public Sector Deficit,   A key
element in explaining the high cost of credit in Argentina is the large
consolidated--fiscal and quasi-fiscal--public sector deficit.   Domestic
financing requirements of this deficit set a high floor for deposit
interest rates.  These deposit rates, in turn, are increased by the large
spreads charged by the banking industry to compensate for the tax
represented by reserve requirements, the large proportion of non-earning
assets, and the substantial operating costs. The result is a lending rate
to final borrowers that in several months has exceeded 40% a year in real
terms.
75.      The Government is committed to a reduction in the consolidated
public sector deficit.  The October 1987 reform package included new taxes
and higher public utility rates.   According to Government's estimates,
these measures should bring the consolidated deficit from 7% of GDP in 1987
to 4% of GDP in 1988. As previously mentioned, for loan effectiveness and
second tranche release, the Bank has to be satisfied that the macroeconomic
policy  framework  of  the  Borrower--including  its fiscal  policy--is
consistent with the objectives of the banking sector reform.



- 29 -
76.      The proposed loan will also help in reducing the rate of interest
by  supporting:         (i)  an  increase  in  deposit  mobilization;
(ii) redimensioning of the system and subsequent reductions in operating
costs; (iii) gradual reduction in average reserve requirements and forced
investments; (iv) rationalization of public banks; and (v) reduction of
Central Bank losses associated with subsidized rediscount lines and the
liquidation of failed financial institutions.
77.      Rationalization of Public Banks.  To advance the rationalization
of public banks, the proposed loan contains two measures:
(a)  Action olans for certain Dublic banks.   The eight public banks
with the largest overdrafts in their Central Bnnk accounts during
calendar year 1987 will have to submit to the Central Bank action
plans providing, respectively, for specific policies, actions and
measures to enable such public banks to repay these overdrafts and
to adjust to the reduced availability of Central Bank rediscounts.
These action plans shall be requested from these institutions by
the Central Bank by May 31, 1988, and submitted to the Bank for
comment  by  August  31,  1988.    Reasonable  progress  in  the
implementation of these action plans, which have to take into
account the Bank's comments, is a condition for second tranche
release.   The Central Bank has already begun taking measures to
face this problem.   Starting November 1987, any provincial bank
incurring new overdrafts in its Central Bank account is
automati(ally excluded from the clearinghouse.   In December 1987
the  CenLral  Bank  took  over,  on  a  temporary  basis,  the
administration of BHN (Banco Hipotecario), which is the public
bank with the largest overdrafts during 1987 and the single
largest  recipient  of Central  Bank rediscounts.   The Bank  is
-oxisidering a possible operation aimed at both restructuring BliN
and improvirng its effectiveness in house financing.
(b)  Restru^:turing  of BANADE.   The Government  decided to convert
BANADE's debt to the Central Bank (rediscounts) into equity and to
eliminate BANADE's access to short-term deposits as of August 1,
1987.  This will strengthen BANADE's financial condition and will
further movf it towards second-tier operations.   Discontinuing
BANADE's access to short-term dFposits will imply a reduction in
its branching network and personnel.   This, in turn, will reduce
BANADE's operating costs.   Further steps in the restructuring of
BANADE will be taken in the context of a Bank loan to BANADE now
under preparation.
78.      Liquidation of Failed Institutions.   In order to expedite  the
liquidation of already failed financial institutions, the CBA has
authorized the sale of these institutions'  loan portfolios.   The sale of
these loan portfolios--which represent over 90% of the total assets of the
180 financial institutions currently urnder liquidatior.--is being done
through public  tenders.   Expediting the liquidation of failed financial
institutions will help reduce the large Central Bank losses resulting from
its role as a rec'ivei of these institutions.



- 30 -
79.      Technical Assistance:   Strengthening of Banking SuRervision.   A
Technical Assistance Component (TAC) has been designed to strengthen the
banking superintendency's capabilities on both credit risk analysis and
assessment of the overall financial condition of banking institutions.
This will allow it to take timely actions to stop unsound financial
practices or, if necessary, force insolvent institutions to exit the market
at an early stage of insolvency, minimizing potential losses for the CBA
and depositors.   The TAG consists of three building blocks:   (i) support
from consultants on specific areas and issues; (ii) training; and
(iii) purchase of computer equipment.   The total cost of the technical
assistance component is estimated at US$500,000.   Details of the TAC are
provided in Annex VII attached.
PART V - LOAN FEATURES
5.1 HISTORY
80.      The proposed loan is the result of a program of financial sector
work which the Bank initiated in FY86.  As a consequence of this program,
extensive discussions on financial sector issues have been held with
Government officials  since early 1986.   A first report--on Argentina's
banking sector--was issued in December 1986 (Green Gover).  The Government
reacted favorably to this report and its main recommendations, and
requested  Bank  assistance  to  implement  them.   A second  report--on
Argentina's  capital  market  and  institutional  investors--is  under
preparation and will provide the basis for a possible subsequent operation
in the financial sector.
5.2 LOAN AMOUNT. BORROVER AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
81.      A quick-disbursing loan of US$400 million is proposed in support
of  the  signiificant  advances  which  the  Government has  made  and has
undertaken to make in adjusting its banking sector. The loan would include
the financing of complementary  computer  and technical  assistance.  The
borrower would be the Republic of Argentina; the implementing agency would
be the Central Bank. The loan would reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of eligible imports.
5.3 LETTER OF FINANCIAL POLICY
82.      The baris for the loan is provided by a Letter of Financial Policy
(Annex V) in which the Government declares its commitment to adopt and
implement  the previously mentioned  reforms.   This letter describes  the
Government's macroeconomic and banking sector objectives and indicates the
reforms intended to meet these objectives.
5.4 TRANCHE RELEASE
83.      The proposed loan would essentially be disbursed in two tranches.
The first-tranche disbursement (US$199.5 million) would be available upon
loan effectiveness.   The loan will become effective when:   (i) all legal
re(quirements are met: (ii) all conditions for loan effectiveness included
in Annex III have been complied with; and (iii) the Bank has been furnished
evidence  satisactory  to it that the Government's macroeconomic poJicy



- 31 -
framework is consistent with the reform program being supported by this
loan.
84.       The release of the second tranche (US$200.0 million), projected co
be disbursed about nine months after loan effectiveness, would be
contingent upon:   (i) the Bank being furnished satisfactor) evidence that
'he Government's macroeconomic policy framework continues to be consistent
with the banking sector reform program; and (ii) all conditions for second-
tranche release included in Annex III have been complied with.
5.5 DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT MECHANISMS
85.       The bulk of the loan (US$399.5 million) would be applied to 100%
of the  c.i.f.  costs  of eligible  private  and  public  sector  imports.
F1 igyhle  imports w'otlei hp all gooris eeent- thnqp normally excluded under
Bank policy-based lending, such as alcohol, tobacco, and armaments: and
goods financed by other Bank loans. Retroactive financing up to 20% of the
loan amount from November 1, 1987, would be permitted.   The remainder of
the loan (US$0.5 million) would be disbursed to purchase computer equipment
for CBA and for technical assistance, including training and consultants'
services.    Disbursement of this  latter  part of the  loan  would  be
independent of tranche releases and over a period not to exceed two years.
The closing date of the loan would be November 30, 1989.
86.       Consultants to be financed with the proceeds of the loan will be
employed in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World  Bank as Executing Agency" published  by the  Bank in August 1981.
Private sector importers would use normal commercial practices while public
sector importers would follow standard Government practices, which ensure
reasonable prices. All disbursements would be made against a statement Ot
expenditures  to be submitted by the CBA.   CBA, in turn, is expected  to
undertake the screen4ng process to ascertain that the above conditions have
been met and to request disbursement of the loan on the basis of documntecd
import payments from the commercial banks.
87.       CBA will maintain separate  accounts to record and monitor loan
disbursements  and  repayments.   All records  and  accounts  related  to
expenditures financed under the proposed loan, including those for
statement of expenditures, would be audited each year in accordance with
sound auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
5.6 BENEFITS AND RISKS
88.       Benefits.   The proposed  operation  will increase  the  overall
efficiency of the barking industry to finance investment and grcwth.  Thi s
will result from: (i) increased deposit mobilization and confidence in the
banking system; (ii) improved credit allocation; and (iii) lower cost of
credit.  Deposit mcGailization will be increased as a result of the lifting
of controls  on  deposit  interest rates,  the  strengthening  of bankinlg
supervision and control, the increased transparency an; reliability of
financial  statements,  the  establishment of an  efficient mechanism  to
rehabilitate troubled banks, the insurance coverage for all small deposits,
and  the  lower rate  of  inflation  together with  the  mainterance  of a



- 32 -
realistic  exchango  rate.   Credit allocation will be  improved as a
consequence of the increased discretionary lending by banking
intermediaries as well as the reduction of the volume and subsidies of
Central Bank rediscounts.   Finally,  the cost of credit is expected to
decline gradually as a result of the reduction of both the fiscal deficit
and the Central Bank losses, the increase in deposit mobilization, the
redimensioning of the system and the subsequent reduction of operating
costs, the reduction of reserve requirements and forced investments, and
the increased efficiency of some public banks.
89.      The proposed loan is also expected to have positive social effects
by improving income distribution and employment.   Small depositors will
largely benefit from the elimination of regulated deposits which did not
have positive interest rates in real terms and which were the only
available alternative for small-sized deposits (only deposits exceeding the
equivalent of US$5,000 could be placed as free short-term deposits at
market  interest  rates).   Similarly,  the reduction of interest rate
subsidies that primarily benefit high-income recipients, the decrease in
the regressive inflation tax, and a better insurance protection for small
deposits are efficient methods whereby the loanx will contribute to reducing
the coniceritration of wealth and income. Moreover, the expected rise in the
quality of investment should help improve the growth and stability of
employment.  However, this latter effect can be offset in the shcrt term
for expected layoffs that would take place as a consequence of the
redimenisioning of the banking system.
9 ".     Risks.  There is a risk that given the complexity and poliLical
impolications of many of the proposed reforms, the Government might not be
able to carry out the whole program with the required speed and
thoroughness.  More st-ingent accounting regulations, improved supervision
and  information disclosure,  and tighter CBA rediscount policy will put
stress on problem private and public banks, and on borrowers at subsidized
rates.  A further risk is that failure to maintain macroeconomic stability
c)Ould endanger the success of financial sector reforms.   These risks are
miflgated by the safety net represented by the expanded Oeposit insurance
coverage. -he esrablishment of an adequate mechanism to rehabilitate
falLi-, banks, the greater availability of financial resources as a result
ot increas,ed  deposit mobilization, and the commitment to stabilize the
economy which the Government continues to show.   Moreover,  the proposed
loar. stipulates that for loan effectiveness and second-tranche release, the
Bank would have to be satisfied that the macroeconomic policy framework is
consistent with the Government's financial sector reform objectives.
PART VI - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
91       Past  Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of
periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties.   In the period FY79-85,
the Bank made loans for ten projects totaling US$1,045 million.   Bank
lentJi-g sinre FY85 totaled, US$1,509.5 million, and has focused on the
improvemeit of water supply services, development of the hydrocarbon and
power sectors, support for structural reforms in agriculture and trade, and
assistance in improving public sector management.   The implementation of
BTan4'-assisted projects in Argentina has suffered in the pas:. from policy
tewe ; sals  cuTmbersome bureaucratic procedures, curbs on public investments



- 33 -
stemming from the need for fiscal austerity, and the private sector's
reluctance to invest in an uncertain economic environment. The Government
shares the Bank's concern about this situation, which in some cases has
resulted in unexpectedly slow disbursements. Isn response, several existing
projects have been restructured to improve their execution.  The Bank has
also instituted procedures for monitoring monthly disbursements, and for
periodic project implementation reviews with the Government.  As a result,
disbursements under Bank loans tripled in 1986 comrared to 1985, and
doubled again in 1987.
92.      Serious efforts by the Government to tackle Argentina's thorny
economic problems give the Bank an opportunity to play a key role in the
country's economic recovery and future development.   The Government has
reqtuested the Bank's help in implementing a structural adjustment program
and in paving the way for renewed long-term economic growth.   Over the
short term, the Government is seeking help with economic analysis and
expanded lending operations designed to enhance the efficiency of resource
use and to increase the availability of foreign exchange.  The Government
has presented to the Bank its framework for a medium-term economic policy
reform and development program. This framework is envisaged as laying the
groundwork for new external lending to foster economic growth and
strengthen Argentina's debt servicing capacity.
93.      Bank analytical  work and  lending will be used to support
Government efforts to achieve sustained and satisfactory rates of economic
growth.   The effort is directed at enhancing Argentina's international
competitiveness, improving public sector management, expanding private
sector activities, increasing domestic resource mobilization, and
strengthening external finances. Key areas for cooperation are reforms of:
(i) the Government's role in the economy--including public investment,
public sector pricing, public enterprise management, divestiture of public
assets, transfer of services, and central-provincial government
interaction; and (ii) private sector incentives, including the trade
regime, credit availability, fiscal subsidies, participation in Government-
controlled activities, deregulation of the financial system, and industrial
restructuring.
94.      The Bank's lending strategy for Argentina has several distinctive
characteristics.   First,  it is focused on policy-based lending and the
associated analytical framework.   Second, it is diversified to encompass
essentially all areas in which the Bank can support important structural
reforms.   Third,  the program has been designed as an integrated whole;
while the loans are associated with individual reforms, they are sequenced
for synergistic effects.
95.      The Bank's ESW has a strong operations orientation designed to
support a continued expansion in our lending program. We intend to follow
up on our recommendations in the Public Sector Investment Program Review
for making public sector investment more cost effective, to assist in the
formulation of a medium-term public investment program, and to support
Government efforts to improve resource management through an analysis of
public sector expenditures.   Sector work is concentrated on financial,
industrial and transport issues. The analytical requirements involved will
be demanding, because of the complexity of the needed policy reforms.  We



- 34 -
will therefore coordinate our own activities with the work undertaken under
the Technical Assistance Loan for Public Sector Management, so as to extend
our analytical leverage and obtain the thorough knowledge necessary for
successful policy-based lending.
96.      IFC has  made  27  investments  in Argentina,  amounting  to
US$287 million, of which US$161 million has been repaid, cancelled or sold.
A summary of its investments is shown in Annex IV. Promotional efforts are
geared to export or import substitution-oriented projects, with emphasis in
oil, petrochemicals and related sectors.   IFC will also continue to seek
investments  in projects  in which its presence would  facilitate  the
formation of joint ventures with foreign participation and act as a
catalyst to attract higher levels of commercial financing.
PART VII - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
97.      The IMF has been supporting Argentina's stabilization efforts
since 1984.   The initial 15-month standby arrangement was extended and
became fully drawn in June 1986.   In February 1987,  a second 15-month
standby arrangement was approved in principle by the IMF in an amount of
SDR 1,113. The arrangement became effective in July 1987.
98.      The Bank will continue the collaboration that it has followed with
the IMF in the previous stageb of this project.  There have been detailed
discussions with Fund staff on the previously mentioned banking sector
report and on the proposed loan. The B'ank will also pay special attention
to the findings and position of the IMF when reviewing macroeconomic
performance for loan effectiveness and second tranche release.
PART VIII - RELONMENDATION
99.      I am satisfied that the propo;ed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank arid recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
February 29, 1988



*    m m    -
- ~ ~ ~~ F
- - - - - - - - - - - - -  w-   w  -                                                                                            .  .................... @*v6P
AUi -              3m   33                                 196          19o          199
EDP grouth rate                                        I           4.5           U                           A U         3.7          3.7          3.7
SDY grouth rate                                        3            52.9           0          LS           2LI           3.9          4.3          3.9
SOY per capita, growth rate                            5.f         -1.3           .9         -1.0           ti           2.4          2.7          2.3
Coisuaption per capita, ret* raft                      06.         4u            LID          0.          .2.1           1.3          1.4          1.4
Debt Service ALT 1/                                  no            9a                        Il3t                       39           03U01       6044
Debt Service ILT/16      ) l7i                        1.1.         t.2          A i                          i.0        51.1         50.9         52.2
Debt Service LI/76P   )                                                         .L             63           7.?          7.0          7.0          7.6
Bross Investmnt/6VD  17) 21                           3.4                       IA. U.       132.3        13.5          14.4         15.3         16.1
Gross Doestic Savlin/3   (II                          17.1         514          11A          13.3         66.1          17.0         13.1         18.9
National Savings/GIP, ceustat priOU  I1I               9.1          0.0          9.5          LI          U.U           12.5         13.0         14.6
MIrgmIa9  WtationIal Sav^is  At b1                                4-50          #A          -1J           1ai          0.45          0.39         0.38
Public Invistmer             3/                        LI           0.51          .I           A           5.9           6.2          0.5          6.8
Public Savings/           /                           -i.3          1.9           .i          3            Li           4.3           4.t          5.0
Private Investmeni..r (2) 2/                           LS3          0.0          6            8.7          ?.           1.2           3.2          9.3
Private Savings/BP  11Z)                              19.0         *L           11.01         9.9          .35         12.7          13.5         13.9
Public Invetwnt/Private lUitit t/                     1.           1.1           .7         *04           0.6          0.6           0.7          0.7
6overnment Revenueil   (1)                            3.9          27.3         3            21.2        2V             27.3         27.3         27.i
Government Eapenditurn/P (                            31.2         3.           29A          32.2         31.1         29.3          29.3         29.6
Non-Financial Publ.c Sector  ticlt/UW   III           4.3           4.1          2.?         *5.-         -.L          -2.0          -1.5         -2.0
Central lank ft fcit/W   1)                          *2.5         -2.2          1.          *2,          .1.5         -1.0         -0.5
Total Public Sector Deficit as I o   W.2                           4.3          4.3           7.          4.           -3.0          -2.0         -2.0
Exports 61fS, grouth rate 3/                            .1         14.0          .           .3.3         10.7          3.0           3.1          3.1
Exports SNfS/BDP (2)  /                               10.7        1au           131           OA          15.3         14.3          14.3         14.6
loports 6NFS, grouth rate 5/                           04         .13.9         ILI           9.9         *44           6.2          5.0           5.1
lIports 6NFS/GDP (12) 0/                               9.           9.1         11           U.9          11          12.4         12.2         12.2
Current Account Balance 1/                            2391         45          .            401          -38          -3101        -3141        -3076
Current Actount IlammcoI  (1)                           4          -1.5         4.2          -5.7          4.4         -3.2         -2.9         -2.5
Interest  LT/Exports of WI                            0.80         *.L6         0.6         0.4?          0.0          0.0          0.40         0.37
Source: LA4CO.
11 t current mill. US dellar.
2/ Includes change is stKks.
31 Public investnt a genSrumat t*t&I           _ O        .
4/ Non-financiil public ucter.
5/ At constant pricn.
6/ At current prices.



a2in hAi M               it P'15 Ai jl 1qig         543M   11a11 Am tS to    't pow   &M1 SAe i
1I      hII SLINh  S1l14481-M  aINNU    It
l4Njj5l"  vess"al NI5P q  P  I" Sil        II
*salw m s  an  l*i2 pw  .wl  163
K   .. ..1.- *- 1  l     ll            '         la          us           We          u's                       ,         ai, A.-I
tt                                                It..tii                                 to..ot a" ..i     lobs l I flt  SMI
..L  1..  *-   *- *- *-   S          as          ie          us4          t I  e1e 0& *'s               IS1    I      l  _11-1 111
S  I        L           C           I     ~     ~         ~        ~~~~~ Ci    % S Almostu.I" JAmo
EN          W"          R1 l         U1UC        U181        1111 all                 UK           il          St          SOl          NWt  l        Iti 16  816  loe         " .  311 IA111
tUt            t          S :    mUb             tt      t     1 l lW                 MCI         till        el           1lC         0Y n                    s1  gl   Itpigsl
,s_ais in9)3 95aj
WIel        is           UW          mu          KIN         mm          15*          le1         010         1808         1*10        am                 Itsl lie     1 1 D  " 1,1e1 l a
a-il OPS-q
50          Ce          *-          55           LI          Lu I*-                                            I'     s 1-'            I's                           in  ls-o *'16* *-5
dl          80*         t5          I's          11t        t15           I,-         Ce          CC          I'1          I'Di1       1-ie. 10111) ml   -1
1-1-        **3*        ***         9b-          *-1-        C-S- I-i-                1-1-        11S-        I,t-         0.1-        9-                        agq  1'e. M
all19 9      9            1         8                 I's  I's                                                         SioNId Sted111"i
59,568* SiSqi S
41004*  w pj)9  -1
s           6-    V - _- 161-  t1l-  ow-         III         C            Wl_         a0-         loll-        tC          101         9i1d                        I6q3  5*51   A4_j
8           0           10           ti-         Its         9i       1  lot          0            Uill        *           0           5                             ml "is 1141    Ida
e           61-         I1-          ii,-        11          50           SIB-        11-         991-         CCI         UK          1O IL                         am 1 mu 1 t 169 sod
0  S     8           0            0           IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  1161   5IC         015          bil         CI-         tit-                                "Sts 111'S'2
,           0    ,                                           II I *11-    161-       0199-   s Cu-             *0K        Ctw-          mi-                       Igloo  *ld  l        Oa
s      *                0      *                 0           SIC-         1 -         Kit-        19-          9159-       9a11-        111-            "41                i "" I 1114   i
NU          uit    uWt               t*C         Su          Ku           "it    "0               Wu          gess         1C          am                                   hsFi Al P1
*                                                *           *            *           *           *            *           * 5         *                         14 i91@1851)EIIS^
90          16          I1           SI    I      ll          NI          O           081         CI           al          IL           -                          W    iminbi *m1g054
Its         S1          am           au          Yl          INC          C16         SI          toL          tit         865         Ni                           & 1S1,Itil,1)  IMjAM
61t        Gas    I l              t s tut       13"    t ins            wt          bt           lul    1it               Mcb         Mt                        -inq tw    01e&S-_-
Loll-       tEl-        8991t-      NSul-        Sn-          loll-       110         l1LL-       GIl-         *UU-        kill-        LItI-                      1S055   P6n)Sq neO-uS
5           5           0            I           1- *  *                              C           91           U           U-          u                               1u    lb ii q   1 
d                           , -4    a 910        0st    - IU             Unot         1t1         fIsg         9u          SK          UC            U          U               h     ih
es-         It.- _          -        Ul-         lln-        un-          mC-         tItS-       SK-          Alas-       St-         Nl-                                       mini 51
9191      XlL          E            WI    8115              91          IllS        5811         1*1     6               L-        Ut-                   1*2le   *~S
119         SIt         MC       Uli        UU1          YU               *101        1*11    { 116            8          *81 t tS5t                   SII)                   *ia-15
Wim         6151        wat          ull         41110       it"          156         fl19        am1          COIL        1111        SCI-                       SM MSPII 0 "All"l
mu           1*         LW          60       0t "A                       99           ILk,        U,, m        11           16          0                            1i12A* "W"-3411
owl    am    a%                      tU          lti         UN           ust    Vl                lt    66Ul    autt   1m                                        SM V-W QK 0 Sj-I
Nm                        Ill       USE          @11         till         %m          ENS         all          1(1         am           191                       SE   l'  II 4**tl
um             1 U      S            Cs N  1     ls1  t      no           IU1         8608               tl t 518  bSJ ISIS            NO
-_ -- -   -   -  -   -- - - -         -   - - - -    -     -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  --- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -   --- -- -   - ---,-.-.-
S"a         SC&I        AN          NM           Ul  l5         2         SI 1583       i t9l 51 8b1                                   06
-Sb 'I_  * P1U  -dB!



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
ARGENTINA - BANKING SECTOR LOAN
SUPPLENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare
the loan:                                18 months
(b)  Loan prepared by:                        cv;.itra  Ba.nk Of Arg_nt'.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:          December 1986
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:          June 1987
(e)  Completion of negotiations:              January 1988
(f)  Date for effectiveness (estimated):      April 1988
II. Conditions for Loan Effectiveness
(a)  The Central Bank shall have initiated a program to strengthen the
banking superintendency's capabilities in the areas of credit risk
analysis and assessment of the overall financial condition of
banking institutions, such program to consist of:  (i) technical
support from consultants and/or experts; (ii) training of staff;
and (iii) acquisition and utilization of computer equipment.
(b)  The Central Bank shall have provided the Bank with a program, for
calendar year 1988, satisfactory to the Bank, for cancellation/
consolidation of an amount of Central Bank rediscounts equal to at
l.east 15% of the Central Bank rediscounts outstanding as of
December 31, 1987, by applying to these rediscounts an equivalel,t
amount of the forced investments maintained by banking
institutions with the Central Bank.  Rediscounts to institutions
now under liquidation as well as those extended to currently
operating institutions to support specific restructuring plans are
excluded from this consolidation process.
(c)  The Central Bank shall have provided the Bank with the program of
rediscounts for calendar year 1988.   This program has to be
satisfactory to the Bank.   The rediscount program for calendar
year 1988 should result in a negative net flow for that year
(total new rediscounts extended shall be less than total
repayments or other recoveries of previously extended
rediscounts).   There shall be excluded from such calrulation:
(i) rediscounts extended to financial institutions for the
purposes of either maintaining their liquidity or improving their
financial position to comply with requirements of the banking
superintendency;  and  (ii)  rediscounts  either financed from
external official or multilateral sources, or required, by
agreements reached before the date of this loan, as counterpart
funding by external official or multilateral financing sources.
(d)  The program of all new Central Bank rediscounts to be extended in
calendar year 1988, with the same two exceptions mentioned in (c)
above, shall have been presented to the Congress, together with
the nation's general budget.



- 38 -
- 38 -            ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) The Central Bank shall have taken measures adequate to cause the
eight public banks having the largest overdrafts in their Central
Bank accounts in 1987 not to increase their use of overdrafts
during 1988.
(f) The Central Bank shall have issued a new regulation, acceptable to
the Bank, establishing a revised system of loan loss provisions to
cover more adequately the risk of default associated with each
loan.
(g) The Bank shall be satisfied that the macroeconomic policy
framework of the Borrower--including its fiscal,  monetary and
exchange rate policies--is consistent with the objectives of the
banking sector reforms.
III. Conditions for Second Tranche Release
(a) The Central Bank shall have formally communicated to all financial
institutions that it will publish semiannually in its monthly
bulletin entitled "Estado de las Entidades Financieras," starting
with the June 1988 issue, their respective financial statements,
including balance sheets and detailed statements of income.
(b) The Central Bank shall have complied with the program for
cancellation of rediscounts referred to in Section II(b) of this
Annex.
(c) The Central Bank shall be complying with the rediscount program
for calendar year 1988 referred to in Section II(c) of this Arnex.
(d)  The draft  legislation providing for the establishment of an
autonomous agency, corporation or other entity which shall:
(i) administer and implement the restructuring or liquidat'on of
insolvent banking institutions; and (ii) guarantee or insure
small-sized deposits, shall have been submitted to the Borrower's
Congress.   This draft legislation shall be furnished to the Bank
for its comment by May 31, 1988. The main characteristics of such
an agency or corporation have been incorporated in the Borrower's
Letter of Financial Policy.
(e) The eight public banks referred to in Section II(e) of this Annex
shall have made reasonable pro ,ress in carrying out their
respective action plans providi:6, respectively, for specific
policies, actions and measures to enable such public banks to
repay their overdrafts and to adjust to the reduced availability
of Central Bank rediscounts.   These  action plans  shall be
requested from these institutions by the Central Bank by May 31,
1988, furnished to the Bank for its comment by August 31, 1988,
and carried out taking into account the Bank's comments.
(f) The Bank shall be satisfied that the macroeconomic policy
framework of the Borrower--including its fiscal, monetary and
exchange rate policies--is consistent with the objectives of the
banking sector reforms.



- 39 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
TEE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1987)
ARGENTINA
Amount less
Loan No.    Year        Borrower      Purpose          Cancellations  Undisbursed
(uSs million)7
Fully disbursed loans (18)                                 901.6
1521         1978    Argentina        Grain  Storage        87.0           27.5
1761        1979    Argentina         Yacyreta Power       210.0           12.9
2031         1981    Banco Nacional  Oil and Gas           100.0           55.2
de Desarrollo   Credit
2032         1981    Yacimientos      Refinery             200.0            3.1
Petroliferos    Conversion
Fiscales
2063         1981    Banco Nacional  Industrial            100.0           36.4
de Desarrollo   Credit II
2296         1983    Argentina        Highway              100.0           30.2
2592         1985    Yacimientos      Gas Utilization    180.0            166.6
Petroliferos    and Technical
Fiscales         Assistance
2032-1       1986    Yacimientos      Refinery             116.0           30.9
Petroliferos    Conversion
Fiscales
2641         1986    Argentina        Water Supply          60.0           59.7
2675        1986    Argentina         Agricultural         350.0          173.1
Sector Loan
2712        1986    Argentina         Public Sector Mgt.  18.5             13.6
2751        1986    Argentina         Power                 14.0           14.0
Engineering
2793/1       1987    Argentina        Small and Medium   125.0            125.0
Scale Industry
Credit
2805 /2     1987    Argentina         Port                  50.0           50.0
2815         1987    Argentina        Trade Policy         500.0            4.0
2854 /2     1987    Servicios         Power                276.0          276.0
Electricos       Distribution
Gran B.A.
TOTAL                                       3,388.1
Of which has been repaid                      680.3
2,700.8
Amount Sold                  12.8
Of which has been repaid                       12.8
Total now held by Bank                      2,688.0
Total undisbursed                                          1,076.0
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ Not yet aigned.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS        Page 2 of 2 pages
(As of November 30, 1987)
ARGENTINA
Amount in US$ million
Year   Obligor                         Type of Business            Equity   Loans
1960   Acindar Industria               Steel Products        3.7     -         3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960   Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.    Pulp and Paper           3.0     -          3.0
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.
1961   Fabrica Argentina de            Automotive            1.5     -         1.5
1962   PASA, Petroquimica              Petrochemicals        3.0     -         3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
72   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.        Pulp and Paper      12.5      -        12.5
1969/
75   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.           Steel Products       17.0     -        17.0
1969   EHitocial Codex, S.A.           Printing and          7.0    2.0        5.0
Publishing
1971/  Calera Avellaneda, S.A.         Cement                5.5     -         5.5
73
1977/  Alpargatas S.A.I.C.             Textiles & Fibers  30.4    2.0         28.4
84
1977   Soyex S.A.                      Soybean Processing 25.0       -        25.0
Plant
1978   Massuh, S.,A.                   Pulp and Paper       15.8    2.3       L3.5
1978/  Juan Minetti, S.A.              Cement and         103.0      -       103.0
81/82/87                               Construction
1978/  Ipako-Industrias                Chemicals and       20.3    2.0        18.3
79/82  Petroquimicas                   Petrochenicals
8;     Argentinas S.A.
1979/  Alpesca S.A.                    Fisheries             6.8    1.6        5.2
83/84
1984/  Pet-oquimica Cuyo SAIC          Chemicals and       45.8    4.0        41.8
86                                     Petrcchemicals
1986   Inversiones Industriales        Money an-' Capital   1.3    1.3           -
S.A. and Roberts               Markets
Participaciones, S.A.
1986   Atanor S.A.M.                   Chemicals and         8.0    1.0        7.0
Petrochemicals
1986   BRSA                            Money and Capital  10.0       -        10.0
Market
1987   Hidra Oil                       Chemicals and       80.0      -        80.0
Petrochemicals
1987   Garovaglio                      Food & Food Proc.  13.0       -        13.0
1987   Terminal 6                      Port, Storage         5.5     -         5.5
1988   Bunge y Born                    Food & Food Proc.  40.0       -        40.0
1988   Arcor                           Food & Food Proc.  12.0       -        12.0
1988   BRLP                            Dev. Finance        30.0      -        30.0
Total Gross Commitments                                    500.1   16.2      483.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repaymensts and Sales                                 221.2    2.0       219.3
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                      278.8   14.2       264.6
Total Undisbursed (IFC only)                            130.7    4.1      126.6



- 41 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 11
January 31, 1988
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Mr. President:
The Government of Argentina is currently engaged in carrying
forward a program of economic structural reforms for the country as a
prerequisite for achieving conditions of stability and sustained economic
growth.
The financial sector will play a major role in generating these
conditions because it, along with the capital markets, needs to allocate
financing efficiently into the investment required to achieve the new phase
of growth.
For that role to be carried out in an efficient way, the financial
system must increase public confidence so it can attract growing financial
savings, regulations that discourage institutionalized financial activity
must be curtailed and the intermediation margin must be reduced so that the
cost of credit goes down significantly.
The Government has looked into a number of actions that address
these points. To ensure continuity from these changes and support this
stage of the reform program, the Argentine Republic requests a loan from
the World Bank to be granted under the framework of the Structural Reform
Lending Program agreed with the Bank for disbursement in 1988.
If this request is to be evaluated adequately, we believe it
necessary to offer a brief description of the Economic Stabilization and
Structural Reform Program that the Government is implementing, considering
that financial reforms constitute one of its leading components.
The Government is certain that the success of reforms in the
financial sector is intimately linked to the existence of an appropriate
macroeconomic policy. In this sense, and for the purpose of furthering the
development of these conditions and to promote economic growth, the
Government proposes: to reduce the current fiscal and quasi-fiscal
deficits of the public sector, to lower the current rate of inflation in
the economy, and to improve the external accounts.
The Economic Reform Plan
The economic program put into effect on June 14, 1985, consisted
of a combination of monetary and fiscal measures implemented with monetary
reform and an income administration policy.



- 42 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 11
Accordingly, the measures put into practice were of three
different orders.
First, as a ba3ic element of the plan, measures were taken to cut
the fiscal deficit.  The substantial drop in inflation alone led to an
important increase in the real value of tax revenues. The imposition of
forced savings and new taxes on foreign trade, along with higher public
utility rates, strengthened the Government's new financing scheme by
supplanting the "inflatioxt tax.' The deficit left after these measures was
to be financed exclusively out of external credit. Furthermore, it was
explicitly decided that covering the fiscal gap by Central Bank loans to
the Treasury was not a desirable alternative.
Second, a freeze was put into effect on prices, wages and exchange
rates. In the area of prices, the freeze was ordered for goods coming
basically from the secondary sector and regulations were imposed on the
sales margins (without freezing them) of products whose prices were more
sensitive to changes in supply and demand (fruits and xegetables, among
others). Also frozen was the exchange rate, in which the austral was set at
80 cents to the dollar.
Third, a monetary ref m was implemented. This reform eliminated
the Argentine peso and put ti' austral in its place, and established a
"conversion scale" aimed at   apening the inflationary expectations
embodied in contracts in effect at the time of the reform.
The initial results of this plan brought inflation (as measured by
the CPI) down from an annualized rate of 1,000% in the first half of 1985
to 40% in the second half of that same year. The public sector deficit
fell from 12.5% of gross domestic product to 4.3% during that same period,
primarily becau4e of greater fiscal revenues from higher prices and rates
and increased real revenue as a result of less inflation. The balance of
trade figure came to US$4,400 million.
Starting in the second quarter of 1986, as more flexible income
and exchange policies took effect, inflation was pushed upward by stronger
demand. To bring conditions back to greater stability, a price and wage
guideline system was implemented during the second half of 1986 in
combination with a monetary policy whose clear purpose was to curb the
growth of domestic credit.
As a consequence, the CPI fell from a 9% monthly rise in August to
5% in December 1986. Simultaneously, GDP rose 6% for the year, under the
influence of a 13% gain in gross industrial output.
The positive results from the inflation plan were not reflected in
the final balance of payments figures where the deficit rose as a result of
deteriorating terms of trade, weather factors affecting production of goods
for export, and greater imports and lower exportable surpluses because of
higher domestic demand.
In January 1987, a new standby agreement was signed with the IMF
as part of an economic policy aimed at making adjustments primarily in the
fiscal area and achieving, thereby, a more stable framework that would help



- 43 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 11
ensure a growing economy, lower inflation and a stronger external sector.
Other agreements were reached at the same time with comercial ba.iks and
international lending agencies to provide the external financial support
essential for normal development of the economy.
Despite the measures implemented in this sense and even though
timely efforts have been made to reduce the consolidated fiscal deficit and
implant firmly a monetary policy that secures price stability, the price
increases that have been seen in the recent past show that the Argentine
economy tends to propagate almost systematically the disequilibria that
lead to resurgence of inflation and deterioration of external accounts.
The only way to eliminate this perverse behavior is to combine
short-term stabilization policies with structural reforms that will make
the stability permanent and bring sustained growth with it. The measures
put into practice by the Government from last October 14 onward, while they
seek to bring inflation to a prompt halt, also entail energetic action to
reduce the fiscal deficit, accompanied by a group of decisions relating to
a growth strategy based on private initiative that integrates Argentina
with the world.
To bring the fiscal deficit down to a level in harmony with the
stability and growth objectives, the Government ordered a number of tax-
related measures combined with higher public utility rates and tighter
controls on tax evasion. Furthermore, important structural changes are
being made in the public finances that are intended to define clearly the
relationship between the central administration, on the one hand, and the
provinces, the public enterprises, and the social security system, on tht,
other hand. Along with the tax measures and the rate adjustments, the
Argentine Government will continue working to contain and reduce
unproductive piblic sector spending.
The Government intends to move further afield into restructuring
state enterprises and eliminating monopolies in several areas. New rules
in effect for oil production will offer private capital more incentive to
allocate resources for the working of reserves by allowing earnings
equivalent to the international price for this output. Further steps will
be taken with the so-called "Houston Plan" whose purpose is to discover new
reserves.
In the area of communications, operating permits will be granted
to private firms. In the immediate future, authorization will be given for
a private service in the Buenos Aires financial area. This service will be
connected to the private system. A competitive bidding will be called for
a private mobile telephone service in Buenos Aires and La Plata.
The implementation of more liberal policies in effect for foreign
exchange transactions is a significant step toward improving Argentina's
external competitiveness and more rapid and efficient national involvement
in the world market. Regulations have also been issued to add 700 import
tariff positions to the system in effect for temporary automatic clearance
of semifinished goods and raw materials used to produce industrial exports,
so as to improve cost and supply conditions and raise the quality of
Argentine goods for export, along with other import tariff measures aimed
at expanding international trade.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 11
It is thought that the modifications introduced to the external
debt capitalization scheme for the financing of new projects will promote
more private investment and afford easier access to local investors.
The draft laws sent to the Congress relating to a new industrial
promotion regimen, elimination of state public utility monopolies and the
establishment of a new Federal Tax Sharing Regimen are aimed at stimulating
competition arid rationalizing public administration.
Along with these measures, substantial modifications have been
made to the regulations applicable to the financial system. These are part
of an action program started in September 1986, which we will now explain.
Financial Sector Reforms
The need to finance growing rediscounts and fiscal and quasi-
fiscal disequilibria led the Central Bank to issue many restrictive
regulations on institutional financial activity which have constrained
progress ir, this area, particularly the use of its lending capacity.
Simultaneously, the Central Bank increasingly assumed a leading
role in resource allocation and thus became part of the machinery for
channeling public subsidies and spending.
The regulations that were in effect in September 1986 provided for
a strongly segmented market. In this the Central Bank set deposit and
lending interest rates for the so-called "regulated" segment, growth
restric-:ions on the free segment, and high remunerated aid unremunerated
reserve requirements on all deposits. There were also many financial
transactions prohibited to intermediaries resulting in an active and
growing informal financial market.
From the end of September 1586 until the program announced last
October was adopted, the financial system has been steadily deregulated.
The principal decisions during this period have entailed drastic
elimination of reserve requirements on free deposits, greater flexibility
for holdings cf remunerated reserve requirements, a greater variety of
financial instruments available in the free segment and thorough
improvements in the system following the intervention and ultimate
liquidation of several entities that had been experiencing serious solvency
and liquidity problems.
Elimination of the Regulated Segment
As of October 15, 1987, financial institutions were authorized to
accept savings and time deposits in all cases at whatever rate they freely
agreed with their customers.
As a consequence of this measure, several regulations were voided.
Among them were the quantitative restrictions on the credit portfolio at
the regulated rate, the quotas on deposits at the free rate and the rules
establishing minimum amounts for iLee-rate deposits.



- 45 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 11
The only restriction applicable to the sum of deposits and other
liabilities was made as a function of the computable net equity
(ResRonsabilidad Patrimonial Computable) of each entity; this was set at 15
times the aforementioned indicator.
Along with these, it was provided that interest rates charged on
lending transactions financed by deposits, equity resources or "non-
directed' rediscount lines were to be arranged freely between banks and
customers.
Besides these, all transactions under 'directed" rediscount lines
would maintain their relative differences but they would take as their
reference the interest rate shown by a survey of free deposit rates paid by
the financial institutions ("financial index"). Thus, rates of 1.5% to
2.5% monthly were set over the survey rate, explaining the virtual
elimination of subsidies afforded by rediscount operations.
Additionally, the deposit insu;:ance system was expanded to make it
more comprehensive. While its partial character was retained, the system
now protected all deposits, in the following proportions:
-    Demand and term deposits:  100% up to A 20,000, or 99% in the case
of legal persons; 75% for amounts in excess of A 20,000, up to
A 50,000; 50% for amounts in excess of A 50,000, up to A 100,000;
and
-    Current account deposits:  100% up to A 100,000, or 99% for legal
persons.
Reduction of Reserve Requirements
The Government's policy for this area is to keep incremental
remunerated and unremunerated reserve requirements low so as to reduce
gradually average reserve requirements to levels that permit growing
financing of private sector activities. In October 1986, the Government
introduced a significant reform in this direction by eliminating
incremental remunerated reserve requirements on free deposits and reducing
incremental unremunerated reserve requirements for these same deposits to
levels between 0% and 3%, depending on their maturities. In this way,
during the last quarter of 1986, the institutionalized financial system
handled operations for A 1,500 million--28+ of the volume of deposits at
the free rate as of the end of September of that year--which had been
channeled until that time through non-institutionalized financial circuits.
This criterion was extended to all incremental term deposits effective with
the reform of October 15, 1987 that eliminated regulated deposits.
The objective of enhancing the ability to compete of the
institutionalized financial system implies giving a privileged posit'on to
open market operations as a tool for short-term monetary control so that
additional reserve requirements--even remunerated--would not be needed.
It is for this reason that, compared with the preceding period,
the Central Bank stepped up during the last year its use of open markat
instruments as a monetary absorption mechanism, particularly through



- 46 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 11
operations involving public securities issued by the National freasury.
Nevertheless, the development of open market operations has still not
reached a magnitude that guarantees attainment of periodic monetary goals
and for this reason, in 1987, the Central Bank had to place additional
temporary reserve requirements on the free segment of 4eposits. However,
their magnitude has been held to a minimum both in quantitative terms and
in terms of length of time so that, during the period January-December
1987, the simple monthly average Lf additional reserve requirements was 1.9
percentage points.
The marked seasonality of money demand by the public is another
factor which prevents the use of open market operations as the only
instrument to secure short-term monetary equilibrium. For this reason, it
will be necessary to continue imposing marginal reserve requirements even
though the Central Bank will avoid any permanent increase in legal reserve
requirements on deposits, thereby limiting in magnitude and time the impact
that these compulsory requirements have on the supply of credit and banking
financial costs. It is thought that in no month will these exceed five
percentage points.
Besides this, the great dispersion brought about by the uneven
distribution of rediscounts and reserve requirements has led to substantial
differences in the efforts required of the different financial institutions
in connection with their nonvoluntary investments in the Central Bank. The
Central Bank, as part of its efforts to deregulate financial
intermediation, established a mechanism by which it freed forced
investments of institutions where the implicit reserve requirements took on
particularly high values.
Forced Investments in the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina
Under the October 1986 reform, remunerated reserve requirements
were replaced by a forced investment ("Deposito Indisponible") that was
equivalent from the monetary standpoint and one whose performance is
independent of changes in financial system deposits. On that occasion,
neither the maturity nor the liquidity characteristics of this forced
investment were stated but it was agreed that at least 15% of the monthly
interest would be paid. Simultaneously, authorization was given for
transfer between financial institutions of up to 15% of the investment.
These conditions mean that even though this investment is adequately
remunerated, maintaining the investment is not a voluntary choice for the
institutions.
For the same purpose, it was announced that a forced investment
would be established, as part of the measures of October 15, 1987, to
absorb all the remunerated reserve requirements put up by the financial
institutions in the regulated and free segments of the pre-existing
financial market.  This forced investment--unlike previous ones--would have
a determined maturity and better conditions of liquidity. The amortization
would be defined as a function of the ouftlook for net recovery of the
credits granted by the Central Bank and the general situation of the
economy while the improvement in liquidity conditions would depend on
increases in transferability of the investment and determination of
maturity.



- 47 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 11
Reduction of Central Bank Credit Activity
The Argentine economy has certain econotic activities whose
financii.g is particularly troublesome under current conditions.
Activities such an the housing supply, regional productive
activities that are seasonal in nature, certain types of exports for which
financing is a critical component of their ability to compete, and certain
investments all have in common high requirements of financial resources at
longer terms than those available in the Argentine financial market today
and at real interest rates lower than the current. It is very difficult
for this type of activity to be serviced adequately by the financial market
and therefore, it is natural to think that the state ought to contribute
under present circumstances to improve their chances of competing or
subsisting until such time as the long-term capital markets rebuild
themselves in a stable economy.
The official banking system, the Central Bank included, has
traditionally allocated the financial resources that the state has made
available for this purpose. However, the magnitude that these activities
have attained has made it necessary to place numerous regulations on
financial intermediation, thus significantly limiting the lending capacity
of the private system. In addition, the magnitude of the?e activities has
resulted in heavy Central Bank losses, which in general terms do not have
a different impact than that generated by public spending.
As a consequence of the concerns arising from this situation, in
February 1987, the President of the Central Bank announced to the Budget
Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Nation the formulation of a
rediscount progr&m for 1987 which would lead to reductions in credit
assistance from the Central Bank compared with that of previous years and,
in turn, to the exercise of adequate control over the volume and use of
that: assistance.
Although the rediscount program for 1987 was not totally complied
with, the Central Bank has continued working to set the basis for a reduced
credit assistance in the future. Special efforts have been made to solve
the problem of those institutions having the largest overdrafts with -he
Central Bank and to develop autonomous and stable sources of financinL, for
Banco Hipotecario.
For the same purpose, the Board of Directors of the Central Bank
is instructing financial institutions to request from their customers of
new credits drawn from Central Bank resources authorization to publicize
these credits so as to supplement the efforts by the Government and the
Congress addressing the social awareness that is made possible by adequate
information.
To deregulate credit allocation and reduce the role of the Central
Bank from both the standpoint of its operational disequilibrium (quasi-
fiscal deficit) and the magnitude of its participation in the credit
market, the Government announced in July 1987 that budget items to finance
the "quasi -fiscal" spending would be included in the draft budget law and
that any changes necessary in the balance sheet of the Central Bank would



- 48 -
ANNEX V
Page 8 of 11
be made so as to bring about an adequate level of public information
regarding this matter.  In the next few weeks the Government will present
to Congress--together with the nation's budget--a detailed program with all
Central Bank rediscounts to be extended during calendar year 1988. Only
rediscounts related to financial institutions' temporary liquidity problems
and those associated with external credit lines will be excluded.
The Government thinks that the efforts described above will
gradually establish the control channels necessary so that the credit
activity of the Central Bank will recognize the real magnitude of the
budget limitations that are currently faced. The Government will start a
program aimed at cancelling Central Bank rediscounts by applying to these
rediscounts equal amounts of forced investments that financial institutions
have in the Central Bank. During 1988, as a first step, the Central Bank
will cancel at least 15% of the rediscounts outstanding as of December 31,
1987 (approximately A 3.3 billion). The Government also aims at achieving
and maintaining a negative flow of Central Bank rediscounts during 1988, so
that during that year total new rediscounts extended shall be less than
total repayments or other recoveries of previously extended rediscounts.
Furthermore, to ensure that the rediscount reduction program is
carried out, the Central Bank will require the banking institutions that
incurred continuous overdrafts during 1987 to submit to it action plans
providing for specific policies, actions and measures to enable such banks
to repay their overdrafts and to adjust to the reduced availability of
Central Bank rediscounts.
Improved Regulation of the Financial System
The Government has made significant advances (intervention,
liquidation and merger) in solving the problems associated with insolvent
private banking institutions. To continue advancing with this effort, a
strict policy will be applied in the area of loan portfolio classificat4on,
reserves (provisions) for possible loan losses, credit concentration in
related firms, accrual of interest on nonperforming credits, valuation of
fixed assets and compliance with minimum capital requirements.
The work of bank supe-vision will be stepped up and the amount of
public information on the financial condition of each institution will be
increased. To this end, the Central Bank is interested in the technical
assistance program that accompanies the World Bank loan that is requested.
The emphasis of the supervision work will be on reviewing the quality of
the loan portfolio and the o'erall financial condition of the
intermediaries. To do this, new groups of inspectors will be established
with specializations in specific areas (with emphasis on loan portfolio
classification according to risk of default), and advanced instruction
courses will be given on the characteristics and performance of firms and
banking activity. These courses will be given by high-level academic
professionals with proven working experience in these fields.
The decisions that are being carried out cover the following
matters:



- 49 -                      A1E 
Page 9 of 11
(a)  Forms and Other Information Recuired by t.: Central Bank
(i) the information contained in several forms that financial
institutions now remit to the Central Bank is being replaced
and rationalized as part of an information, control and
inspection project planned for gradual implementation; and
(ii) the data that have been received on main debtors will be used
to implement a centralized debtors data base (Central de
Rieseo) .
(b) Minimum CaRital Requirements. Minimum capital requirements have
already been increased to reflect the effects of inflation.
Financial institutions must gradually adjust their capital base so
that by December 1989 they are in full compliance with -his new
requirement. It is the policy of the Government to continue to
adjust minimum capital requirements taking into account the
effects of inflation.
(c) Loan Portfolio Classification. Reserves for Loan Losses. and
Interest Accruals. It is the decision of the Government to
improve its system of loan portfolio classification according to
risk of default, covering both the current and the past-due
portfclio. It is also its decision to require financial
instituAions to maintain enough reserves to cover potential loa:
losses as reflected by the loan portfolio classification system.
Similarly, financial institutions should not reflect as income the
interest rate (in real terms) accrued on loans either that have
been past due over 90 days or that have a high risk of default
associated with them. To advance in the implementation of these
policies, the Central Bank has recently issued regulations
providing for a move precise system of loan portfolio
classification, and more restrictive policies on loan loss
reserves and interest accruals.
(d) Valuation of Fixed Assets. In this respect the Central Bank will
increase its efforts to ensure that financial institutions reflect
in their asscts the real market value of fixed assets and other
real estate, as provided by the current regulations.
(e) Information Disclosure. To increase transparency and confidence
in the financial market, the Central Bank will formally inform all
financial institutions that it will expand the publication of
their financial statements by including information on their
statements of income and expenses in its bulletin entitled "Estado
de las Entidados Financieras.1 This information will be published
at least on a semiannual basis, and will start with the June 1989
issue. The Central Bank is also in the process of redesigning its
balance sheet to increase information to the public on its own
financial statements, especially with regard to the different
rediscount lines.



- 50 -                     ANNEX V
Page 10 of 11
Reform of Public Banks
It is essential to adopt measures useful in rationalizing the
operation of public banks. Over the medium term, the Government expects
that official national banks will enhance their capacity to serve the
financing needs of agriculture, industry, housing and foreign trade,
thereby getting back to their specialties and adapting their operations
through basic modifications for this purpose.
The objectives of this sectoral reform are to return these
establishments to the specialties they had when they were started because
these specialties 'nave been underminied by the financial reforms of the
latter years of the 1970s. These institutions would be given the resources
appropriate to their specific purpose in terms of time, amounts and rates.
Efforts will be made to bring about effective application of
operating independence for each financial institution and to encourage
national official banks to play their role as second-tier institutions
which has not been adequately developed to this time.
The role and area of operations for each of the official national
banks were made public on July 20, 1987, by the Minister of Finance. In
this respect, progress continues to be made in the efforts to recapitalize
BANADE, revise its bylaws, and increase its second-tier operations.
Rehabilitation and Liquidation of Problem Banks
To bring about more efficient management of financial institutions
having solvency problems and to make liquidation procedures more flexible
and expeditious, the Central Bank is now preparing a draft law to establish
an autonomous entity which shall: (i) administer and implement the
restructuring or liquidation of insolvent financial institutions, and
(ii) guarantee or insure small-sized deposits. This entity would be
financed by fees from participating institutions, complemented, if
required, by advances from the Central Bank. The entity would be entitled
to perform a wide gamut of activities to rehabilitate or liquidate banks
with a view to minimizing costs. Rehabilitation activities would include
lending, purchase of assets, and recapitalization. In the latter case,
existing shareholders would lose their invested capital and control of the
institution. Until establishment of this entity, the Central Bank will
implement and maintain in effect adequate procedures and measures for the
restructuring or liquidation of insolvent financial institutions. These
procedures and measures will be consistent with the draft law now under
preparation.
In drafting the law, consideration will be given to Argentina's
experience as well as those of other coutntries that have gone through
similar processes.
At the same time, the work of privatizing administration and
selling the loan portfolios of failed financial institutions has been
started with the purpose of accelerating their liquidation and minimizing
costs. Awards will be made under the public competitive bidding system.
The first such award has been made to a private bank. Similarly, the



- 51 -
Page 11 of 11
mechanism for selling branches of failed institutions has been streamlined
and 50 branches of recently failed institutions were sold last December.
In consideration of the reforms that have already been adopted for
the financial sector and those that are expected to be adopted in the near
future, as described here, the Government of the Argentine Republic would
appreciate it if you were to give favorable consideration to this request
for a Banking Sector Loan. We hope to continue an exchange of ideas with
the World Bank in this area and to discuss in the near future the progress
made in implementing the financial reforms proposed.
Sincerely yours,
Jose Luis Machinea                        Juan Vital Sourrouille
President, Central Bank of the                Minister of Economy of the
Argentine Republic                          Argentine Republic



MRGENTINA - BANKING SECTOR LOAN
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                    ISSUES                     ACTIONS ALREADY TAXEN                   ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                         TIMING
1. IncreasLng        a) Low level of deposit             a) Complete elimination of
confldence and       moblillation                        controls on savlngs and
deposLt                                                  tim  deposit interest
mobiliation                                             rates (October 1987)
b) Need to force banks to show   b) Enactment of stringent           b) Enactment of a new regulation             b) Loan effectiveness
their real financial               regulations on:                   establishing a revised syste_ of
condltlon in their                                                   loan loss provLsions to cover more
flnancial statements, thus          (1) loan portfollo               adequately the risk of default
foreing problem banks to                classification               associated with each loan
restructure or exit the                 according to risk of
market                                  default
(2) interest accruals on
problem loans
(LncludLng past due
loans)
c) Slow and costly solution of   c) Deposit insurance                c) Establishment of an autonomous            c) Draft law sent to the
both the overdimension and         coverage for all small            Deposit Insurance Corporation for            Bank for come nts by
the vLdespread solvency            deposits                          the rehabilitatlon of problem banks          May 31, 19S8 and
problems affecting the                                               that are flnancially viable or the           subite-d to Congress
banklng system                                                       liquidation of non-viable                    by secotd tranche
lnstitutions                                 reloase
d) Inability of the banking                                          d) Technical asistance to strengthen         d) Technical assistance
superintendency to take                                              the banking superintendency's                to start as of loan
timely actions to stop                                               capabilities on both credit risk             effectiveness
unsound financial prac-                                              JnAlYsis and assessment of the
tices or, when necessary,                                            overall financial condition of
to force insolvent insti-                                            banking institutions
tutions to exit the market
at an early stage of
insolvency
e) Lack of public disclosure       a) The Central Bank has           e) The Central Bank vlll formally            e) Second tranche
on the financial condltion         already instructed all            communicate to all financial
of bankiig institutions            banking institutions to           institutlons that it vill publish
keep at their premises           their respective financial
information on their             statements, Including balance shoets
assets and liabilities,          and detailed statements of income,
loans to related parties.        semiannually in Lts monthly
main shareholders,               bulletin, such publication to
members of the Board of          comance with the June 1989 issue                                              0
Dlrectors, and external                                                                                        6%
auditors                                                                                                       U



OWJECTVES                     ISSUES                      ACTIOPS ALREADY TAEIN                  ACTIONS TO Is TAKE                           TI  Igo
f) Pear by domestic agents to                                        f) Mtonetary and fiscal policies             f) Loan offectivenes
hold domestic deposits                                               consistent with lover rates of               and second tranche
because of the risk of high                                          inflation.  Maintenance of a                 release
and variable rates of                                                realistic exchange rate
lnflation end abrupt
devaluations of the
domestic currency
2. Isrov1ng          a) Reduced banking systems          a) In September 1986.
credit               discretionary l ndIng               reserve requiremeuts
allocation                                               (RRs) on Incr ement-l free
deposits were lowered
from 7.51 to 51 (or less
depending on deposit
maturlty). Sijailarly.
forced investmnts (FIs)
on incrmntal free
deposits wero lowered
from 52X to zero. In
October 1987. these loaer
RRs wre expanded to all
Incremental deposits
b) Large Central Bank              b) As a result of the             b) Ratlonalization o! Central Bank
intervention lin credit            October 1987 reform that          rediscounts, including the followLng
allocation                         *liminated regulated              measures:
deposits  50X of CIA
rediscounts that                 (1) The Central Bank vill cancell         b) (1) Loan effective-
previousLy had an                    consolidate an amount of redis-               ness cad second
interest rate based on               counts equal to at least 155 of              tranche  release
the regulated deposit                the rediscounts outstanding *s
rate now have an Interest            of December 31, 1987, by apply-
rate based on free market            lng to these redLacounta an
deposits.  (The estimated            equivalent amount of forced
average interest rate to             Lnvestgents.  Redlicountt  to
be charged by CBA to                 instLtutions now under llquida-
financial institutions in            tion and those extended to cur-
the 1988 rediscount                  rently operating institutions to
program Is 9.1X por year             support specific restructuring
in real terms)                       plans are excluded frm this
consolidatlon process
(2) The net flow of rediscounts (new   b) (2) Loan effective-
rediscounts less recoverlis) for             ness and  econd
1980 has to be negative.  (The               tranch- release
Central lank will provlde the
Bsank vith the rediscount program                                        a
for 1988 before loan effective- 
ness).  Rediscounts to support                                           o
institutions facing liquidity
problems or specific restructur-
Ing plans as vell as those asso-                                         a
clated with external lines of
credit are excluded from this
calculation



OSIJISCTIVISS_                 ISSuSS                   ACTIOtS ALREADY TAKE                 ACTIOIRS TO BE TAJEII                      TMIUG
(3) AUI Central Bank rediscouits to    b) (3) Loan effective-
be extended during calendar year           nos
1988 (with tha s*  ezceptions
mntioned in b)(2) above) vill
be presented to Congross,
together with the nacion's
budget
3. Roducing the     a) High pressure on interest      a) New tames and higher         a) Reduction in the consolidated public   a) Second tranch-
cost of credit      rates posed by domestic           public utility rates            sector deficit from the 1987 levl,          release
financing requirements of         (October 1987)                  (The October 1987 fLscal package is
large public sector                                              expected to reduce the consolldat-d
deficits                                                          public sector deficit from an
estimated 7X of CDP in 1987 to an
estimted 41 of rDP in 1988)
b) Deteriorated financial         b) Starting November 1987,    b) Action plans for the eight banking        b) The Central Back
condition of several public       provincial banks incur-        institutions that had the largest           shall request the
banks                             ring new overdrafts in          overdrafts i.n their Contral Sank          action plans by                  >
their Central lbank             accounts during calendar year 1987         May 31. 1988. and
accounts will automti-                                                     shall submit them to
cally b: excluded from                                                     the Bank by
the clearinghouse.                                                         August 31, 1988.
Elimination of AIDIE's                                                     Satisfactory pror ess
access to short-ter,                                                       in the Implementation
deposits as a way to                                                       of such plas by
further its second-tier                                                   *so-d trenche
operations                                                                 reloeas
c) Large Central Sank losses     c) Substantial reduction in
associated with the               the staffing and fixed
administration of failed          assets of failed
finanial institution              financial institutions.                                                                                    If
Sale of loan portfolios
to private intermediaries                            
through public tenders



- 55 -         ~~ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 6 pages
ARGENTINA - ANRMIN   CORM   MAN
TECCNIsAL ABSISTANCE CONPONUNT
1.       The Technical Assistance Component has been specifically designed
to strengthen the bank-supervising capacity of the Central Bank of
Argentina (CBA).  It consists of three building blocks:  (i) support from
c.onsultants on specific issues, (ii) training, and (iii) purchase of
computer equipment.
I.  Suport from Consultagt
2.       The areas to be covered by consultants are:   (i) on-site bank
examination, including organization, procedures and reporting; and (ii) CBA
organizational aspects, including both static and dynamic features, such as
interaction among different departments vithin CBA and design of an
integrated management information system (HIS) with easy access by the
highest authorities at the Central Bank.
A. On-Site Bank Examination
3.       One of the most striking characteristics of current on-site bank
examinations is the emphasis placed on controlling comp'tance with CBA
reserve requirements and forced investment regulations.   Though serious
attention to these monetary issues may be justified in the context of the
current Argentinian macroeconomic situation, overlooking the risks
associated with the different assets held by banking institutions--in
particular the risks of the loan portfolio--and their overall financial
condition,  constitutes a serious problem.   Other deficiencies of the
current on-site bank examination process derive from: (i) the sparsity of
the visits to the institutions, (ii) the lack of standardized reports,
(iii) the lack of adequate training programs, and (iv) the lack of data aild
word processing equipment.
4.       The consultants in charge of this area should:  (i) revise current
on-site examination practices to (a) redirect their emphasis towards
integral financial analysis, and risk and loan portfolio evaluation, and
(b) include auditing of computerized systems, (ii) design a standard on-
site bank examination report, and (iii) support CBA in the preparation of a
bank examination manual, providing guidelines and reviewing the final
version.
5.       The change  in examination pract'ces would:  (i)  allow for
technically sound bank examinations and consequently better knowledge ot
banks' true financial condition; (ii) provide the banking superintendency
with an appropriate tool for controlling whether the bank under examination
has been complying with CBA regulations; (iii) shorten the time devoted to
each bank examination, improving examiners' efficiency, and allowing for
increased frequency in the visits; and (iv) enable due auditing of banks'
computerized systems.   The standardization of examination reports would
both make examiners' efforts more effective, and ease the superintendency's
decision-making process.



- 56 -                ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 6 pages
B. CBA Organizational AsDocts
6.       Argentinian laws have assigned the responsibility for banking
supervision to CBA.  However, CBA's organizational structure is apparently
inadequate for fulfilling this function satisfactorily.   In particular,
(i) there are severe coordination and interaction problems among the
different departments carrying on supervision task3 due to an unclear
delimitation of responsibilities; and (ii) there is no top-level executive
with exclusive dedication to this area.   Coordination problems  are
especially notorious among the departments in charge of "control," "bank
examination," and 'regulations," to the extent that, occasionally,
"control" has become aware of new regulations only days or weeks after
their issuance. A different aspect relating to the dynamic functioning of
CBA relates to the difficulties in the flow of information across different
areas.   Moreover,  careful examination of the information received by
different CBA departments may allow for the rationalization of the bank
reporting system, with considerable reduction itt control and processing
times.
7.       On these bases,  consulting support in the organizational area
should be targeted to: (i) improve CBA's organizational structure to
(a) allow for increased promptness and efficiency in dealing with banking
institutions; and (b) enhance coordination among the different areas
involved in this task; and (ii) rationalize the information system,
including the design of an MIS of easy access by the higher authorities.
II. Trainirnz
8.       Strengthening CBA's  supervisory ability will require special
training efforts geared to both bank examiners and financial analysts.
With regard to bank examiners, they should be trained in integral financial
analysis, risk and loan portfolio evaluation techniques, and computerized
systems auditing. The basic targets to be achieved by examiners completing
the training program are to:  (i) understand the importance of appropriate
bank examination objectives, activities and reports; (ii) be able to
perform technically adequate bank examinations: (iii) be able to produce
precise, and technically sound reports; (iv) have a thorough knowledge and
understanding of financial concepts and analysis, so that they are able to
adequately analyze banks'  financial  condition;  (v)   understand  the
operational structure of a banking institution and how internal controls
and audit procedures  protect  that  structure;  (vi)  understand  the
significance of loan portfolio quality, and loan policies and management;
(vii) be able to analyze the quality of a loan portfolio and the adequacy
of the corresponding provisions; and (viii) be able to evaluate the quality
of a bank's loan management systems.
9.       Financial analysts in the "control" department use an approach
that excessively emphasizes accounting aspects and past performance, with
full reliance on the information received from the institutions being
supervised.   Less than satisfactory attention appears  to be paid to
unveiling the true financial condition of these institutions, and the
assessment of the likely evolution of their liquidity, solvency and
profitability.    Adequately designed training  in integral  financial
^t'Sts  5and,  'or the sake of completeness, risk and loan portfolio
evaluation techniques, should eliminate these deficiencies.



- 57 -
- 57 -         ~~ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 6 pages
10.      Section V of this annex contains a tentative set of courses and
its contents.   The "integral financial analysis course" would be the same
for both examiners  and financial analysts.   Full program completion
(including systems auditing) is estimated to take about 120 hours. Actual
duration will depend upon final contents.   Because of the practical
impossibility and inconvenience of having only one course dictated for all
the 100 examiners and about 100 analysts, it is recommended that trainees
be divided into groups of 25 participants each.   The overall training
program would therefore consist of (i) four complete sets of courses for
the examiners; and (ii) four partial sets of courses (integral financial
analysis, and risk and loan portfolio evaluation techniques), for the
analysts.   This  overall  program  should be  implemented during two
consecutive years.
III. Word and Data Processing Equigment
11.      Strengthening banking supervision will require broadening and
reinforcing the technical capacity of the corresponding CBA departments in
terms of data processing equipment.   Complementarily,  word processing
facilities are also necessary to shorten administrative processing time of
the reports.
12.      CBA has a central computer that is seemingly sufficient to satisfy
the demands of all its departments, including the superintendency.
However, the superintendency is located outside the main complex, and has
no access to the main computer.   CBA authorities are already working on
solving this problem. A second problem faced by the superintendency is the
lack of an autonomous processing capacity in the form of personal
computers.   Design of the co.mputer network should facilitate interaction
among different departments related to bank supervision tasks, and should
allow for (i) access to the central computer in the main CBA building; and
(ii) autonomous processing capacity.   Availability of word processing
equipment in the department in charge of bank examinations would solve
current bottleneck problems at the typing stage of the reports, which
currently hinder their delivery on time.
13.      In its current program of purchases CBA has included only 3
personal computers for the superintendency, while authorities of this
department believe that 15 is a more adequate number.  As stated by these
authorities, personal computers are needed as follows:



- 58 -
Page 4 of 6 pages
Area            Quantity               Applications
Deoutv General NanaLer          1   Access to the Financial Institutions
Information System (FIIS)
Control Deoartment
Manager                       1  Access to FIIS
Technical Team                1   Access to FIIS; collection of data from
computerized control system; operation &
updating of FIIS & computerized control
system
Chiefs of Financial           4   Access to FIIS
Analysts groups
Administration Unit           1   Word processing; support tasks
Verification Unit             2   Processing information on closures &
rehabilitation of checking accounts
Authorization Department
Authorization Unit            1   Records on financial  institutions'
shareholders
Expansion & Services Unit    1   Record of branches
Bank Examination Department    3  Access to FIIS: word processing
14.      The request for 15 personal computers seems reasonable given the
type of activities and the workload in each of the areas and should be
supported.
IV. Estimation of Costs
15.      Consultants  time devoted to the areas of on-site bank examination
and CBA organizational structure is estimated as eight weeks per task.
With estimated fees of about US$800 per day, a per diem of US$150, and
travel expenses of US$3,000 per trip (vith two trips per consulting job),
the total budget for consultants comes up to approximately US$120,000.
16.      Training costs are difficult to assess at this stage since
decisions need to be made as to (i) who is going to be in charge of the
courses, i.e., local or foreign instructors; (ii) final outlines; and
(iii) location. As designed, the training program would require nearly 850
instructor/hours per year, or 1,700 hours in total. Assuming hourly fees
of US$100, the total budget for training fees would be US$170,000.
Additionally, training courses should be under the joint supervision of the



- 59- -
- 59 -         ~~ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 6 pagea
Bank and an external advisor--a specialist in supervialon of international
reputation--who would visit Argentina for two weeks each year to discuss
programs, and focus on the courses with the appointed instructors, and to
g.ve four talks on matters related to the course.  Assuming daily fees of
US'800, a per diem of US$150, and total travelling costs of US$6,000
(US$3,000 per trip), the total budget for the external adviser would be
approximately US$33,000.   The resulting total traininf budget would be
US$203,000.
17.      Finally,  personal computer prices will depend upon what the
Argentinian experts decide should be the make, type, etc.  Assuming an
average price of US$8,000 per personal computer, the total budget for
purchase of such equipment amounts to US$120,000.
18.      Estimated consultants' fees, training fees, and computer purchases
should not exceed an equivalent of US$500,000.
V. Training Program: Tentative Evaluation Techniaues
A. Risk and Loan Portfolio Evaluation Tschnigues
- Introduction
- Sample selection systems
- Statistical sampling
-Internal control evaluation
- Working papers
- Audit environment
- Bank examination planning and objectives
- Risk and Loan Portfolio Analysis
- Global credit risk evaluation
- Introduction to credit
- Types and terms of loans
- Functions of the Credit Department
- Credit file documentation
- Loan policies
- Loan administration
- Problems in lending
- Loan clasLification techniques
- Provisions for potential loan losses
- Problem loan restructuring
- Renegotiated and workout loans
- Bankruptcy
- Examination Report
- Objective
- Contents
- Facts
- Analysis
- Examiner's comments
- Conclusions



-60 -
- 60 - ~~ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 6 pages
B. Intesral Financial Analslis
- Accounting regulations
- Analysis of balance sheet and profit and loss statements
- Ratio analysis
- Cash flow analysis
- The CAMEL system
- Uniform bank performance report
C. goumuteriped Systems Evaluation and Audtintg
- Data processing systems
- Analysis of internal controls
- Programs application tests
- Auditing through micro-computers and main-frames
- Application controls
- Data test techniques
- Conclusions



