Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13832
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2445-ZIM)
DECEMBER 23, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        :         Zimbabwe dollar (Z$)
EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year Average                         I 1US$ = Z$ 0.7851
Intervening Year Average                       I 1US$ = Z$ 0.4333
Completion Year Average                        IUS$ = Z$ 0.1640
GLOSSARY
CDC                 Commonwealth Development Corporation
LA                  Loan Agreement
MPCNH               Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
MFEPD               Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development
MLGRUD              Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
MT                  Ministry of Transport
OJT                 On-the-Job Training
BS                  Building Societies (Central African Building Society, Beverley Building
Society and Founders Building Society)
PCMU                Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit
UTU                 Urban Transport Unit
ZAAT                Zimbabwe Association of Accounting Technicians
ZESA                Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZTSB                Zimbabwe Traffic Safety Board
ZUPCO               Zimbabwe United Passenger Company
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 23, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe
Urban Development Project
(Loan 2445-ZIM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe - Urban Development Project
(Loan 2445-ZIM) prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Southern Africa
Department of the Africa Regional Office. Borrower contributions were requested, but have
not been received.
The project focused on reform in the housing sector by pioneering the entry of existing
private sector intermediaries in low-income housing finance. In addition, the project sought
to strengthen infrastructure service delivery, including urban transport, through local
governments.
Progress towards the project's physical objectives was very good, as the number of plots
serviced exceeded the targeted number by 85%. About 11,000 houses had been completed
(and occupied) or were under construction at the time of loan closing -- delayed about two
years to allow the use of additional proceeds created by exchange rate fluctuations.
Institutional development of local governments (through training and technical assistance) was
implemented only to a limited degree because of lack of interest from local governments.
The project experience has provided a promising example of the involvement of
experienced private sector intermediary institutions in low-income housing finance. The project
outcome is rated as satisfactory, and its institutional development impact as modest. The
sustainability of project benefits is rated as likely.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality, and provides a comprehensive discussion of the
problems and the achievements of the project as well as useful lessons for future operations.
The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its coDntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
ZIMABIWE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2445ZIM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................   ii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity .1
Background .1
Project Objectives and Description.                                           2
Project Design and Organization.                                              3
Project Implementation.                                                       5
Results.                                                                      9
Project Sustainability .10
Bank Performance .10
Borrower Performance .11
Relationship Between Bank and Borrower .11
Consultants Services .11
Project Documentation and Data .12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE ........    14
PART m.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ......                      ..................    15
Related Bank Loans/Credit ..............................    15
Project Timetable ....................................  15
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .....          ...........    16
Project Implementation ...........          .....................    18
Project Costs and Financing .........          ....................    20
Project Results: ......................................  21
Direct Benefits ....................................  21
Economic Impact ............            .....................    22
Studies ........................................  24
Status of Covenants .      .................................    25
Use of Bank Resources ...........            .....................    28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2445-ZIM)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Urban Development Project for
which Loan 2445 (US$ 43.0 million) was approved on June 19, 1984 and declared effective on
October 7, 1985. Due to currency devaluations and to less than anticipated costs, the loan funds
were sufficient to greatly increase the amount of work financed under the loan. However, an
undisbursed balance of US$6,532,887 remained after two extensions of the Closing Date
(September 30, 1993). This amount was cancelled and the Loan closed on January 28, 1994.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Southern Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and IE), and by the Borrower (Part II).
3.    Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement and related documents; supervision reports; consultants' reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






- .1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABVE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WLAN 2445ZIM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The primary objective of the project was to promote Zimbabwe's financial and
institutional capacity to supply affordable housing through reform of the housing delivery system
and the housing mortgage market mainly by concentrating low-income housing activities of local
authorities on the supply of serviced land and by introducing private sector financing of such
housing through existing financial intermediaries. In addition, the project was to strengthen local
government institutions for the supply of urban infrastructure and to support aspects of urban
development (especially transportation) where new policy directives were being formulated.
2.    Major project components as originally conceived, included:
-     the development of about 11,349 residential plots in Harare and three other towns
with related infrastructure and community facilities;
-     the provision by three thrift institutions of long-term mortgage finance for
construction of houses on these plots;
-     institutional development of various organs of local government throughout
Zimbabwe;
-     policy and institutional development related to urban transport throughout
Zimbabwe and the construction of a bus depot in Harare; and
-     development of facilities for management of the project.
3.    Most of the project elements were the responsibility of the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural and Urban Development (MLGRUD) while others fell to the Ministry of
Public Construction and National Housing (MPCNH) and the Ministry of Transport (MT). A
Steering Committee was to provide policy guidance in the work of various participating
organizations and a Project Coordinating and Monitoring Unit was to coordinate administration
of the loan.



Implementation Experience
4.    The development of the original group of sites went according to schedule and generally
at or below projected costs. The additional proceeds of the Bank loan created by exchange rate
fluctuations were applied to help finance an additional group of plots (roughly doubling the
original number to nearly 21,000). The execution of the second group was slower than the first
because designs and other engineering documentation were not available and because plots could
not be sold (as quickly as they were produced) owing to the lack of available mortgage finance.
The availability of mortgage finance was subject to macroeconomic constraints in the financial
sector created by a regulatory framework that differentiates interest rates between financial
institutions. The assignment of plots and the construction of houses lagged behind original
projections, especially when deposits for low-income housing at the thrift institutions tapered off
because of changes towards more competitive interest saving rates offered to investors by the
banking sector.
5.     By the time of loan closure, 15,500 plots had been serviced, 5,000 more plots were in
the course of being prepared, and about 11,000 houses had been completed or were under
construction.  The implementation process continued after loan closure but the pace of
development was governed by the availability of housing finance. Generally the buyers appear
to have had low incomes when they applied to the local authorities to be put on the housing
waiting lists.
6.    Elements of the project relating to development of local government institutions were
implemented only to a limited extent primarily because the Zimbabwe authorities were reluctant
to use external loan funds for this purpose. Some of the project elements related to urban
transport were implemented, including policy analyses and the acquisition of equipment.
7.    Throughout project implementation disbursements lagged behind appraisal estimates, and
fell short of what the Borrower was eligible to receive. This occurred because local authorities
were slow in reporting actual expenditures to the executing Ministries, resulting in a lag and
eventual shortfall in disbursements from the Bank.
Results
8.    The project provided the vehicle for introducing new housing delivery systems to
Zimbabwe for the low-income groups through production of serviced sites by local authorities
and provision of mortgage finance to low-income households from local financial institutions.
The main mode of construction selected by plot allottees was aided self-help housing, i.e., owner
managed building with assistance of small contractors. The project demonstrated unequivocally
the viability of involving local thrift institutions in the process of meeting low-income houses
needs.
9.    The project was successful in forging a link between public and private sector operations.
It strengthened local government by shifting mortgage financing responsibilities to local building
societies, thereby releasing public funds for other uses and simultaneously reducing fiduciary
risks borne by local authorities, as well as extending the volume of funds available to low-income
households for housing.



- iv -
Sustainability
10.   The project has proven to be sustainable as evidenced by the good mortgage loan
repayment history maintained by project beneficiaries. Local authorities' efforts to maintain
infrastructure services have managed to keep up with the demand created by the newly services
housing suburbs. The replicability of the project approach is being demonstrated under a follow-
up Bank-financed project, although the volume of mortgage lending has proven to be sensitive
to changes in the interest rate structure of Zimbabwe's financial sector.
Conclusions and Lessons L4arned
11.   The main lessons learned from the project experience are:
(a)   In countries with a well developed financial sector, such as Zimbabwe, the ability
to use World Bank loan funds to mobilize domestic resources produces
pronounced economic and financial benefits. It is estimated that every dollar of
Bank finance for land servicing leveraged three dollars of local finance for home
construction, thereby producing a multiplier effect for the housing sector and
permitting more effective use of Bank loan funds;
(b)    The project provides an excellent example of a case where the traditional public
sector role in housing is reduced from that of total provision to the more limited
one of servicing residential land, leaving the financing and actual contraction of
dwelling units to the private sector, i.e., building societies and the beneficiary
households. The project demonstrates how the first steps in creating an enabling
environment in the housing sector can be taken in a country with adequate local
human, fiscal and physical resources;
(c)    At times the Government and the Bank took opposing sides on matters of policy,
as for example in the case of the most appropriate mode of construction of
dwelling units. The issue was resolved by allowing beneficiaries to make the
decision from a menu of approved methods proposed by both parties. The lesson
illustrates that, given a choice, policy options should be made inclusive, not
exclusive, and that building diversity into a policy framework can make it more
robust;
(d)    The Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit was not well integrated with the
key line Ministries. This theoretically gave it independence to exercise its
functions. However, in the Zimbabwe context with two strong and competitive
lead Ministries and relatively efficient local authorities, the Unit did not receive
the regard it required to exercise coordination and monitoring functions. One of
the consequences was the lack of systematic monitoring needed to provide
concrete information on the achievement of the Project. This supports the case
of limiting the use of special project units in Bank-financed projects, if not
eliminating them totally, in the interest of strengthening line Ministries;
(e)    The need to expand the scope of the project because of fast implementation
progress ahead of schedule suggests (in hindsight) the need for a more
programmatic approach to lending in Zimbabwe's urban sector. In fact, the
follow-up project (Urban Sector and Regional Development Project Loan 3079-



ZIM) did adopt a programmatic approach which grants the Borrower more
flexibility in the design of the investments in accordance with agreed criteria;
(f)    The institutional strengthening component of the Project was not implemented in
the broad comprehensive manner in which it was designed. The reluctance of
the Borrower to implement the component was a function of both the hesitation
to use external loan funds for 'soft" types expenditure and the concern about the
ideological thrust of World Bank training efforts. There was clearly a lack of
ownership of the ID component on the part of the Borrower and consequently the
component was not implemented with the resources intended at the time of
project appraisal; and
(g)    The introduction of domestically mobilized savings into the low-income housing
sector subjected the project to the cyclical vagaries of Zimbabwe's financial
sector, exacerbated by the regulations governing the financial intermediaries in
the country. The sustainabiity of this approach to housing sector finance will
be strengthened with improvements in the regulatory framework of the financial
sector. This emphasizes the need for successful long-term macroeconomic
management at the national level.
(h)    The implementation of the project was occasionally hampered by inadequate
capacity to survey land, prepare legal documents, register titles and other
administrative tasks. This emphasizes the need to strengthen administrative and
legal support services in future projects.



PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
ZimBABVE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WLOAN 2445-ZTM
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name        Urban Development Project
Loan Number         2445-ZIM
PAR Unit            Southern Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country             Zimbabwe
Sector              Infrastructure
Sub-sector          Urban
2. Background
2.1    During the period preceding the establishment of majority rule in Zimbabwe, migration into the
country's cities was severely restricted. As a result Zimbabwe had a low rate of urbanization when the
new Government was launched in the early 1980's, with only 23% of the population living in towns of
15,000 inhabitants or more. Based on the experience of other African countries after they achieved self-
Government, the Government and the Bank foresaw a surge of new migrants into Zimbabwe's cities.
2.2    Although the urban population was less than one fourth of the population total, non-agricultural
activities (largely concentrated in urban areas) produced 85% of GDP. While the new Government had
established, with Bank support, programs to increase output and productivity in the rural areas and to
give priority to rural development, the Government also wished to maximize the capacity of urban areas
to absorb additional population. Urban growth thus would provide a means of absorbing excess people
to relieve distress in the rural areas. The newly urbanized population was expected increasingly to be
less affluent than in the past and to require correspondingly greater urban services.
2.3   Prior to national self-rule, Zimbabwe's cities and towns had a history of administrative
independence from the central Government. They were financially sound and adhered to high standards
in the provision of urban infrastructure and services for all income segments. The central Government
had concentrated its work in urban areas on primary education and on some aspects of health care and
was the main source of finance for low-income housing. The critical issues after self-rule thus were
expected to be (i) the maintenance of municipal services in the face of rapid losses of personnel to
emigration and to the local private sector and (ii) the continued provision of finance for housing for low-
income citizens in the face of many competing demands on the Government's capacity to raise capital.
Prior to self rule private mortgage financing for housing was confined to high-income Borrowers and the
provision of private funds for low-income housing would require expanding traditional building society
lending to low-income persons.



- 2 -
2.4   Initiatives thus were conceived to assist urbanization through (i) provision of additional urban
infrastructure; (ii) strengthening of governmental administration in the urban sector; and (iii) development
of private finance for low-income housing. These themes were developed in detail in an Urban Sector
Report for Zimbabwe (Report No. 417 1-ZIM) and provided the basis for the Urban Development Project.
2.5   Initial contacts between the Government and the Bank concerning this project occurred in
November 1981 and the project was formally identified in March/April 1982. The project was developed
and brought to the Board in the subsequent two years, with formal approval occurring on June 19, 1984.
(Table 2)
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1    The project objectives were to
(a)    Promote the financial and institutional capacity to supply affordable housing and related
services in Zimbabwe through reform of the housing delivery system and the housing
mortgage markets by
-     concentrating low-income housing activities of local authorities on the supply of
serviced land;
-     introducing private sector financing for low-income housing through existing
private sector financial intermediaries;
-     establishing new procedures for financing and construction of low-income
housing;
-     maintaining standards for low-income housing to ensure continuity of the
reformed process; and
-     strengthening urban management capacities of local Governments;
(b)    Strengthen the financial and technical capacity of local Governments to provide essential
urban infrastructure and services; and
(c)    Support other areas of urban development (especially transportation) where new policy
directions were being formulated.
3.2   The project's components as approved by the Board were:
(a)    Provision of serviced residential land (11,349 plots in four cities) and related community
facilities;
(b)    Provision of loans by three local building societies (BS) to selected occupants of the lots
for the construction of low-income housing. This part of the project would be financed
in part by the Commonwealth Development Corporation, (CDC);



- 3 -
(c)   Institutional development, specifically for:
(i)    Strengthening the capacities for urban management of all local Governments in
Zimbabwe;
(ii)   Support for setting up the Zimbabwe Association of Accounting Technicians
(ZAAT); and
(iii)   Strengthening the Works or Community Services Departments of the four town
Governments in project implementation and coordination.
(d)    Actions related to urban transport as follows:
(i)    Establishment of the Urban Transport Unit (UTU) within the Ministry of Local
Government and Town Planning (MLGTP);
(ii)   Acquisition of road safety equipment for the Zimbabwe Traffic Safety Board
(ZTSB) in the Ministry of Transport (MT);
(iii)   Carrying out studies for MT of the equipment needed for control of motor
vehicles and acquisition of such equipment including staff training in its use;
(iv)   Acquisition by Harare and Bulawayo city Governments of equipment to assist in
traffic data collection and analysis;
(v)    Construction of a central bus station in Harare; and
(e)    Establishment of a Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) in the MLGTP
and of Working Committees in each of the four towns to assist in implementation of the
project.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1    Detailed discussion of the content of the project began in early 1982. The four project towns
were selected and they agreed to prepare programs for housing provision for the next 3-5 years. Housing
sites in each town were identified and concept plans, detailed layouts and detailed engineering were
agreed to be made for these sites. The three BS undertook to mobilize domestic resources to finance
mortgage loans to low-income Borrowers who would build on these sites. There would also be programs
to help those owners who wished to build their houses on their own. Training needs were identified both
in the municipal Government and among private contractors and detailed training programs were to be
developed. Finally, the Government was to propose components to address Zimbabwe's urban transport
problems.
4.2   Further preparation of the project extended over nearly 2 years to appraisal in October 1983.
The project basically retained its original configuration throughout.  However, finance from
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) was added in the form of a Z$ 10.4 million long term
loan to the BS to provide seed capital for their entry into low-income mortgage financing.



4.3   The principal issues encountered in development of the project were the following:
(a)    The size of the Bank's loan. The loan amount increased from US$25 million at project
identification to US$43 million at project appraisal. The increase was intended to induce
a substantial policy impact and to give recognition to the urgent need for additional
housing.
(b)   The role of the BS. The Zimbabwe authorities questioned the participation by the BS in
the project and the extent to which their mortgage finance should supplant the existing
governmental rental and ownership housing schemes. Eventually BS were made the sole
vehicles for delivery of housing finance under the project.
(c)    The standards for project housing. The MPCNH wanted the houses to be built under the
project to have a minimum size of four rooms with a toilet/bathroom while the Bank
advocated one room with a toilet/bathroom. The matter was resolved by an arrangement
whereby the buyer of each plot could not occupy the plot until one room plus
toilet/bathroom was completed and had to built the three additional rooms within 18
months. However, the project was targeted at low-income beneficiaries by requiring that
no plot household should have an income of over Z$400 per month and that 70% of plot
owners should not have incomes over ZS200 per month.
(d)   The method of constructing houses. The MPCNH wanted all houses built under the
sponsorship to be put up by building brigades (construction units staffed by municipal
employees). The Bank, concerned about the inefficiency of public sector construction
units, wanted plot owners to be able to choose whomever they wished to build their
houses for them. It was agreed that plot developers could select from three approved
modes of construction: (i) municipal brigades; (ii) cooperatives; or (iii) aided self-help
(owner-builder).' In Masvingo houses were constructed by a local sub-contractor and
then allocated to eligible households.
4.4   The project was presented to the Board in mid-1984 and was to become effective six months later.
The course of implementation and disbursement foreseen at the start is shown in Table 2 and 3. The
main targets envisioned for the project are presented in Table 4 and the project cost estimates and sources
of finance are given in Table 5. Project results are foreseen at the start are summarized in Table 6.
Project completion was to be December 31, 1990 and loan closing September 30, 1991.
4.5   Procurement under the project was to be by international competitive bidding (ICB) for all
contracts worth more than US$50,000 equivalent except for certain infrastructure works specifically
agreed to be executed by force account.
In a project financed by the CDC in Gweru (not part of the World Bank financed project), the
use of council direct labor, with the local authority acting as the developer, did not prove to be
an efficient and cost effective means of delivering housing, because of the difficulty of providing
adequate supervision and of motivating direct labor whose jobs depended on spinning out the
work.



4.6   Project design and organization were amended on several occasions:
(a)   In August 1985, Schedule 4 of the LA was amended to allow certain additional works
by Bulawayo City Council to be done by force account.
(b)   In February 1988, the Description of the Project was amended to increase the number
of the serviced units from 11,350 to 23,000. This change was made when the production
of the original group of units was completed earlier than scheduled and the proceeds of
the Bank loan increased because of devaluation of the Zimbabwe dollar.
(c)   In March 1989, the Description of the Project was amended to allow for the acquisition
of buses (up to US$2,500,000 equivalent) and spares by ZUPCO (another US$2,500,000
equivalent), and Section 3.01 (b) (i) was amended to require the Government to make a
loan agreement with ZUPCO for the corresponding amount.
5. Project Implementation
General
5.1   Implementation occurred in two overall phases. The first phase spanned the years during which
the project was implemented according to its original design. That design had a target production of
11,349 plots to be completed by the middle of 1987, with the bulk of housing construction costs on these
plots to be incurred by the middle of 1990. The original design also contemplated over Z$7 million for
technical assistance and training and about Z$2 million for equipment and vehicles.
5.2   The second phase began in mid-1987 when the Government reported that the production of plots
(though not their electricity supply) was substantially complete, despite only 15% of the loan having been
disbursed. The large discrepancy between work progress and loan disbursement was attributed to:
(a)   gains in the loan account due to exchange rate fluctuations;
(b)   refusal by the Bank to finance certain expenses because of misprocurement; and
(c)   lower than expected price escalation.
5.3   In view of the continuing severe housing shortage, the Government and the Bank agreed to apply
the unused parts of the loan toward roughly doubling the number of plots to be produced under the
project. However, no new project completion date was set nor did the parties determine a new set of
project costs. Also, unlike in the first phase, the Government and the Bank did not formally agree at the
outset on specific sites in each town nor on the associated off-site infrastructure and community facilities.
The second phase adopted a sector-loan approach.
5.4    As it evolved, the second phase included the following major work:
In Harare:    Budiriro V with 3653 plots



In Bulawayo:  Nketa IX with 2506 plots
Ncema Water Supply Pipeline
Engawini Substation
In Mutare:    Chikinga II with 2700 plots
In Masvingo: Rujeko IB with 770 plots
These schemes provided a total of 9629 plots. An additional major item during the second phase was
the supply of buses and spares to ZUPCO, which required a separate amendment in 1989. A study of
rural passenger transport was also included in the revised project design.
Timing and Extent of Completion of Implementation
5.5   The project was designed so that the production of plots would be closely followed by their
allocation to the owners and the subsequent construction of houses. The economics of the project was
dependent on living space becoming available within a short time after the land was subdivided and
provided with infrastructure. Table 4 in Part III summarizes planned and actual site development (plots
available for allotment) and building construction (core houses completed) in each of the two phases.
5.6   Plot development under the first phase took only three years and was nearly in accordance with
plans, while progress under the second phase proceeded more slowly. The main reasons for slower
execution of the second phase were that planning and preparatory work had to be completed and that
work was held up owing to lack of construction materials. The main reason for the delay was the
difficulty the Building Societies had in attracting sufficient deposits for making loans owing to better
return to investors in alternative saving schemes.
5.7    While the basic development of plots under the first phase was finished in 1987, the installation
of electricity supply took more time. ZESA (whose participation was not envisaged under the original
project) took over this function which had formerly been executed by the local Governments and it
charged for installation at levels above what many lot owners were willing to pay. Also, ZESA standards
disfavored provision of electricity to small houses. As a result, as of mid-1989, only about one half to
three quarters of the plots under the first phase had electric supply. Some on-site infrastructure (notably
street lights) and some off-site works and the community facilities also were completed after 1987.
5.8    At the time of loan closing, the status of the major items included in the second phase was as
follows:
Budirio V                        60% complete
Nketa IX                         Completed December 1990
Chikanga II                      Completed December 1990
Rujeko IB                        Completed March 1992
Ncema Water Supply Pipeline      80% complete
Rural Passenger Transport Study  Not started
It was agreed with GOZ that the reminder of the costs of Budirio V, Ncema Water Supply Pipeline and
the Rural Passenger Transport Study would be financed under Loan
3079-ZIM.



- 7 -
5.9    The pace of implementation varied considerably among the executing agencies and particularly
among the four project towns. The reasons were the differences in practices and quality of staff, effective
use of technical assistance, and the inherent technical difficulties of developing some of the project sites.
Where direct imports were involved (e.g. ZESA and ZUPCO), disbursements in foreign currency were
made directly by the Bank. Implementation was also affected by the periodic lack of availability of
municipal budgetary funds. Project towns were expected to cover all costs of the project from their own
resources supplemented with funds on-lent from central Government. The towns were reluctant to finance
training and consultancy expenses with use of loan funds. Some project elements were implemented only
to a limited extent. Most important among these was the on-the-job training (OJT) program for local
Government employees (part C1 of the Description of the Project). The primary reason for this was
MLGRUD's reluctance to use loan funds for this purpose. It became apparent during project execution
that because the design of this component occurred at a time when Zimbabwe was becoming familiar with
the World Bank, the Government had not yet developed a policy towards using Bank loan funds for
technical assistance. Once project implementation began, GOZ adopted this restrictive policy.
5.10   Procurement of civil works by contract generally went smoothly with awards going mainly to
large firms established in Zimbabwe. Two contracts in Mutare under the first phase worth nearly Z$3
million were disallowed for bank financing because the authorities did not conform to the procurement
requirement of the LA. The Government opted to award contracts to the bidder requiring the lowest
amount of foreign exchange rather than to the bidder offering the lowest evaluated overall bid. Another
contract in Mutare (original value of Z$8 million) for servicing of the Chikanga II subdivision under the
second phase resulted in the allowance of a claim of about Z$1.8 million. This claim arose when the
contractor interrupted work because the employer did not provide the foreign exchange for essential
imports of equipment and supplies.
Equipment, Vehicles and Spares
5.11   Whereas the loan originally envisioned a very modest amount of financing for this category of
goods (US$1.5 million equivalent plus contingencies), the amount disbursed under this category by the
time of loan closure was over US$20 million equivalent, all procured by ICB except for proprietary
spares. The additional amount is represented principally by three items: buses and spares for ZUPCO
(nearly US$5 million equivalent), electrical equipment and supplies for ZESA (about US$2.3 million
equivalent) and the supply of 840 mm pipe and related equipment for the Ncema scheme. Much of the
electricity supply under the original project was to have been carried out as force account by each of the
towns. Its execution by ZESA provides a partial explanation of the reduction in civil works and the
increase in equipment procurement.
Consultant Services and Technical Assistance
5.12   This category of financing under the loan was projected to amount to US$7.5 million equivalent
plus contingencies and was to cover 80% of the cost for engineering design and supervision, transport
technical assistance and training, local Government training and other institutional development technical
assistance. The final amount used under the loan for these purposes was less than US$1 million
equivalent. This is explained by greater reliance on town staff for design and supervision, smaller
implementation of the urban transport studies effort, and major reductions in institutional development
training and consultancies. There also was the use of bilaterally financed technical assistance in
substitution of what had been intended for loan financing. The ultimate impact of this was a lower



capacity at all levels of the government to implement similar projects than might have been achieved with
the fuller use of project resources for technical assistance and training.
Establishment Costs of ZAAT
5.13   This category of the list of goods was budgeted for US$170,000 equivalent to cover 80%
equivalent expenses of ZAAT during 1984 and 1985 and was to be disbursed against statements of
expenditures. The category was expanded to cover establishment costs as well of PCMU, MT and ZTSB
and by loan closure, had absorbed about US$700,000 equivalent, more than half to PCMU (with
disbursements continuing through 1993) and about US$100,000 (Z$247,000) equivalent for ZAAT.
Urban Transport and Traffic Management
5.14   An Urban Transport Unit (UTU) was established in MLGRUD in the first year of project
implementation and was provided with foreign advisors. The UTU prepared a series of technical papers
on transport policy issues and road safety. It also assisted the Government in acquiring a majority share
of ZUPCO. UTU staff were trained overseas under the project.
5.15   The Zimbabwe Traffic Safety Board (ZTSB) benefitted in the early years of project
implementation from loan financing through contributions to establishment costs, for some equipment
acquisition and for consultancy services. Also four senior staff of ZTSB were sent to the Eastern and
Southern Africa Management Institute for training. A computerized traffic accident analysis package was
acquired in 1990. Harare Central Bus Terminal was completed in 1988.
Housing Finance and Construction
5.16   The provision of mortgage loans by the BS was part of the Definition of the Project and the
allocation of plots to eligible beneficiaries and the provision of finance and construction of housing was
the major thrust of the project. Allocation procedures followed the existing rules of the four towns using
housing waiting lists which required local residence and employment. These rules were modified in the
LA by reducing the qualifying household income from not more than Z$450 to Z$400 per month and
requiring that 70% of the allottees should have incomes under Z$200. The limits were related to
Zimbabwe's poverty level. The income limits were to be reviewed annually by the Borrower, the Bank
and CDC but, while some discussions took place on this topic in the early years of implementation, the
limits were never formally amended. Ninety percent of all beneficiary households allocated plots in the
first phase of Harare's program earned less than Z$400 per month. Similarly, 80%, 86% and 67% of
households in Bulawayo, Mutare and Masvingo respectively earned less than Z$400 per month.
Household incomes among allottees in the second phase of each town's program were slightly higher:
e.g. in Bulawayo 28% of allottees earned less than Z$400 but all earned less than Z$750. No towns
achieved the lowest income target of 70% of plots to households earning less than Z$200 per month. In
the first phase it was 1% in Harare in 1993, 2% in Bulawayo in 1991, 6% in Mutare in 1993, 9%in
Masvingo in 1993. Bulawayo's second phase had I % of allottees with incomes under Z$200 in 1993,
in retrospect, possibly an unrealistic target. This finding is common among site and service schemes in
the Africa region: these programs rarely meet the homeownership needs of the bottom quintile of the
income distribution. However, the poorest fifth of the urban population were the major beneficiaries of
the rental opportunities created under the project which permitted partial subletting of owner-occupied
dwellings.



- 9 -
5.17   The provision of mortgages for house construction was essential to most, though not all, buyers
of plots under the first phase of the project; a small number, varying in different communities and
ranging to nearly 20% in some, financed their houses on their own. The very low number of
beneficiaries earning under Z$200 may have been due to the requirement that applicants be salaried
workers in the formal sector.
5.18  In all towns but Masvingo, construction of houses was done by small contractors engaged by the
owner, with some technical help from the BS and the towns; in Masvingo, which lacked a developed
construction sector, the town authorities themselves engaged contractors to put up groups of houses on
behalf of the owners. Once construction started, houses were completed quickly (typically within six
months) and construction was mostly brought to the full house size right away, with core houses
constituting only 20% of the units built. As indicated in para 5.6, house construction nevertheless
continued to lag considerably behind the number of available plots, primarily due to the lack of mortgage
credit.
6. Results
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.1   The project succeeded in introducing Zimbabwe to a new system for the production of low
income housing. Features of this system included the owner/builder concept and the provision of
mortgage finance through domestic thrift institutions. Several variations on this theme were developed.
Bulawayo, for example, provided a majority of its new housing though the construction of shell houses
which are sold under tenant purchase arrangements. These houses of 50 m2 have four rooms and an
ablution unit but no doors, windows, electric wiring or other fittings which the purchaser adds gradually
as he can afford them. As project elements which were directed at improvement of urban management
were implemented to only a minor extent, the project had a correspondingly limited impact in this area.
The project made limited contributions toward policy formulation for urban transport and toward
improving urban transport operations. The project contributed to the transfer of a controlling interest in
ZUPCO to the Government, to reequipping ZUPCO and to improving its schedule. These actions helped
to improve ZUPCO's operations but its legal status remained to be sorted out. Finally, the project
resulted in the introduction of systems for improved traffic safety, motor vehicle control and traffic
management.
Achievement of Physical Targets
6.2   The physical targets for the production of sites were largely achieved under the first phase but,
due to slower production achievements under the second phase, the output of sites for the project as a
whole fell about 20% under target. Most on-site and off-site infrastructure was built, though some of
it behind schedule. Electric supply infrastructure remained low in relation to the completed units. As
already suggested, the volume of consultancy and technical assistance was much below projections while
equipment acquisition much above it. See Table 4 in Part IHI.



- 10-
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    Sustainability issues in this project are raised in two contexts: the operation of the low-income
housing production system introduced under the project and other governmental policies and procedures
revised under the project. The new housing production system was introduced with limited outside help
and this operation is sustainable with staff available in Zimbabwe, supplemented by modest external
technical support. The continuation of this system under a follow-on Bank project testifies to the
replicability of the systems. However, the mobilization of domestic capital to finance these systems has
become a problem and threatens their continued application. To increase the ability of BS to attract
savings requires a change in macro-economic policy, a matter beyond the confines of the project itself.
There is also a distributional constraint, i.e., at any given time building societies will find it more
profitable to lend scarce funds to more remunerative, less risky clientele than the low income residential
market. The mid to late 1980s may have been a unique period when all factors came together, not the
least that the building societies had ample liquidity. There is no guarantee that this will happen again
even if real and nominal interest rates fall significantly.
7.2    The other governmental policies and procedures which were revised under the project were of
more limited scope and their continued viability is therefore more difficult to establish. The UTU was
merged into the regular governmental system and its know-how was thus permanently incorporated.
Improved motor vehicle and traffic safety procedures were closely tied to computerized procedures which
are themselves easy to sustain but which may become technologically outdated after some years. The
OJT training systems were virtually not implemented and their sustainability thus does not arise. The
future operations of ZAAT are in doubt because it is not able to raise sufficient income to meet operating
expenses, much less service the debt incurred under the Project.
7.3    GOZ's interest in seeking alternative to hard Bank money for capacity building elements is
understandable. But in actual fact, nothing was put in its place, the legacy of which has impacted the
implementation of the follow-on project, Urban II. Neither PCMU nor the eligible local authorities
(ELAs) themselves recognized early enough the needs for outside technical assistance and training. ELAs
that have consultants have not managed them particularly well. ELAs that have not and have weak
internal capacity have been seriously handicapped in their ability to benefit from Urban II.
8. Bank's Performance
8.1    The Bank allocated significant staff resources to prepare the project, which was one of the early
loans in a new borrowing country, based on a system novel to that country. The Bank prudently limited
the complexity of the project by concentrating it on three main concerns: production of housing,
strengthening local Government institutions related to housing, and developing aspects of urban (and
national) transport policy and administration. An extraneous element relating to job creation was
dropped.
8.2    The Bank ensured that preparation of the works (designs and cost estimates) was made before loan
approval and arranged for effective coordinating mechanisms at both the central and town Government
levels. The rapid and timely execution of most works in the original project attests to the value of these
preparations. By contrast, the weaker preparatory efforts related to the second phase partly explain its
more troubled but still successful implementation.



- I1 -
8.3    The project also was materially helped by long-term continuity of senior Bank staff assigned to
preparation and appraisal. This continuity continued despite several organizational changes including the
1987 reorganization. The Bank's supervision effort was adequate, with missions fielded over ten years.
The missions were appropriately staffed, technically strong and provided good staff continuity.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1    No single characterization of Borrower performance can be made with the large number of
Borrower organizations which participated in the project and which ranged from central to local
Government, from public to private institutions and from technical to financial and policy groups. There
were significant unresolved tensions among them touching on such vital project issues as the use of
external loans for housing, the participation of private sector organizations in low-income housing and
the use of non-governmental technical forces to assist in project design and execution. The resolution
of such conflicts was the primary concern of the Borrower though the Bank had the opportunity to
influence this process and did to some extent. Coordinating mechanisms, particularly towns' coordinating
committees, maintained interest and organizational discipline, typically under the active leadership of each
town's public works authorities. These authorities were accustomed to executing works which was the
central feature of the project and they applied their skills effectively to this end. Similarly, the BS were
able effectively to adopt their normal loan processing to the requirements of low-income Borrowers.
9.2    The performance of Borrower entities who had to deal institutional elements of the project was
more uneven. The OJT element of the project was hardly implemented at all and other institutional
initiatives were only partly put into effect. Policy formulation regarding housing and urban transport was
difficult to achieve. The Steering Committee, which was to review and monitor project execution, did
not meet very often and exerted only limited influence. Finally, PCMU, rarely fully staffed, has had
problems in gaining full cooperation of various agencies in providing adequate reporting on the project
and in generating the documentation to support disbursements. The weakness of PCMU continued to
have a negative impact on the start-up of the follow-on investment.
9.3    The Borrower's performance with regard to covenants is summarized in Table 7. There were
significant shortfalls in this performance particularly with regard to the employment of consultants (few
were used) and to the enforcement of the income guidelines for property ownership. Finally, financial
reports were usually submitted substantially later than the loan specified.
10. Relations Between the Bank and the Borrower
10.1   Relations between the Bank and the Zimbabwe authorities were open and frank. The few serious
disagreements between the parties took time to resolve (for example, the minimum size of standard
houses). However, by Project completion there was general agreement on the appropriate principles for
an effective low-income housing policy framework.
11. Consultants Services
11.1   The project provided for a large volume of consulting services (initially over the equivalent in
US$ of 7.5 million) but only a small fraction of it was used. Primarily this was due to the fact that the



- 12 -
Borrower was able to persuade the Bank that it did not need the consultants listed in Schedule 6 of the
LA. The largest single consultancy which was not implemented was the one relating to OJT. Also, no
consultants were appointed to assist in the formulation and monitoring of housing programs which
affected the information available on trends in the housing sector. The towns made much more limited
use of consultants in the design and supervision of the works programs than was foreseen at appraisal.
As a result, documentation on project implementation was somewhat limited and, in the second phase,
design work was delayed.
11.2  Consultancy assigmnents which were carried out under the project were generally executed
competently. Most consultants were Zimbabwe firms who worked on aspects of civil engineering.
Foreign firms were employed to work on transport, road safety equipment and on motor vehicle
administration.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1  The original documentation for the project was adequate, providing a useful framework for both
Bank staff and the Borrower during implementation. Staffing delays in the PCMU and frequent turnover
of key personnel contributed to incomplete reporting of project progress and achievements.
13. The main lessons learned from the project experience are:
(a)   In countries with a well developed financial sector, such as Zimbabwe, the ability to use
World Bank loan funds to mobilize domestic resources produces pronounced economic
and financial benefits. It is estimated that every dollar of Bank finance for site servicing
leveraged three dollars of local finance for home construction, thereby producing a
multiplier effect for the housing sector and permitting more effective use of Bank loan
funds;
(b)    The project provides an excellent example of a case where the traditional public sector
role in housing sector is reduced from that of total provision to the more limited one of
servicing residential land, leaving the financing and actual contraction of dwelling units
to the private sector, i.e., building societies and the beneficiary households. The project
demonstrates how the first steps in creating an enabling environment in the housing sector
can be taken in a country with adequate local human, fiscal and physical resources;
(c)    At times the Government and the Bank took opposing sides on matters of policy, as for
example in the case of the most appropriate mode of construction of dwelling units. The
issue was resolved by allowing beneficiaries to make the decision from a menu of
approved methods proposed by both parties. The lesson illustrate that, given a choice,
policy options should be made inclusive, not exclusive, and that building diversity into
a policy framework can make it more robust;
(d)    The Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit was not well integrated with the key line
Ministries. This theoretically gave it independence to exercise its functions. However,
in the Zimbabwe context with two strong and competitive lead Ministries and relatively
efficient local authorities, the Unit did not receive the regard it required to exercise



- 13 -
coordination and monitoring functions. One of the consequences was the lack of
systematic monitoring needed to provide concrete information on the achievement of the
Project. This supports the case of limiting the use of special project units in Bank-
financed projects, if not eliminating them totally in the interest of strengthening line
Ministries;
(e)    The need to expand the scope of the project because of fast implementation progress
ahead of schedule suggests (in hindsight) the need for a more programmatic approach to
lending in Zimbabwe's urban sector. In fact, the follow-up project did adopt a
programmatic approach which grants the Borrower more flexibility in the design of the
investments in accordance with agreed criteria; and
(f)    The institutional strengthening component of the Project was not implemented in the
broad comprehensive manner in which it was designed. The reluctance of the Borrower
to implement the component was a function of both the hesitation to use external loan
funds for 'soft' types expenditure and the concern about the ideological thrust of World
Bank training efforts. There was clearly a lack of ownership of the ID component on the
part of the Borrower and consequently the component was not implemented with the
resources intended at the time of project appraisal.
(g)    The introduction of domestically mobilized savings into the low-income housing sector
subjected the project to the cyclical vagaries of Zimbabwe's financial sector, exacerbated
by the regulations governing the financial intermediaries in the country.  The
sustainability of this approach to housing sector finance will be strengthened with
improvements in the regulatory framework of the financial sector. This emphasizes the
need for successful long-term macroeconomic management at the national level.
(h)    The implementation of the project was occasionally hampered by inadequate capacity to
survey land, prepare legal documents, register titles and other administrative tasks. This
emphasizes the need to strengthen administrative and legal support services in future
projects.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABW
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2445-ZIM)
PART II. PROJECT REVEEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



- 15 -
PART m
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
This is the first Bank Loan for an urban project.
2. Project Timetable
Item                            Date         Date         Date
Planned      Revised      Actual
-     Identification                                      11/24/81
-     Preparation               03/19/82                  07/02/82
-     Preappraisal                                        10/25/82
-     Appraisal Mission         03/00/93                  10/03/83
-     Loan Negotiations         04/23/84                  04/23/94
-     Board Approval                                      06/19/84
-     Loan Signature                                      09/23/84
-     Loan Effectiveness                                  06/27/85
-     Loan Closing              09/30/91                  09/30/93
-     Loan Completion                                     01/28/94



- 16 -
Page 1 of 2
3. Loan Disbursements
Disbursement (IJS$ Million)
Bank Fiscal        Estimated          Actual       Actual as % of
Year and Quarter    Cumulative        Cumulative   Estimated
1295     2         1.1                0.0          0
3        2.2                 0.0         0
4        2.9                 0.1          3
1996     1         3.7                0.1          3
2        4.4                0.6          14
3        5.1                2.7          53
4        6.6                 2.7         41
1987     1         8.0                4.5          56
2        9.5                 4.5         47
3        10.9               5.9          54
4        12.4                6.3         51
1        13.9               7.2          52
2        16.1                8.2         51
3        18.2                8.6         47
4        19.7                8.6         44
1        21.2               9.4          44
2        23.3                9.5         41
3        25.5               9.5          68
4        20.0                9.5         35
1990     1         28.4               9.6          34
2        29.2                12.2        42
3        30.0                12.2        41
4        31.4                13.8        44
l991     1         32.8               15.0         46
2        33.6                16.3        49
3        34.3                18.2        53
4        35.0                18.6        53
1992     1         35.7               19.5         55
2        36.1               21.8         60
3        36.5                22.2        61
4        36.5               22.4         61
1993     1         36.5               24.4         67
2        36.5                25.6        70
3        36.5               29.8         82
4        36.5                31.8        87



- 17 -
Page 2 of 2
3. Loan Disbursement                           Continued
Disbursement (US$ Million)
__Bank
Fiscal              Estimated           Actual        Actual as % of
Year and Quarter    Cumulative          Cumulative   Estimated
1994  1             36.0                33.7          94
2            36.0                 36.1         100
3            36.0                 36.5         101



4.Project Implementation: Infrastructure
Planned        Actual                                                                                                  On-Site
Total Number   Total Number                                                                                            Infrastructure
of             of
Residential    Residenlial      Roads and Storm                                                                        Standards
Plots          Plots          Water Drainage            Sewerage              Water            Electricity          of Servicea
HARARE          Budinro 1       2,450           2,600      Widening &              Increase pump         Increase reservoir                   Roads:
Reconstruction of       station capacity.     capacity                             acces to all piots
Rds.                   IMPLEMENTED           IMPLEMENTED                           IMPLEMENTED
IMPLEMENTED
Glen Norah       902            916                                                                                           Surfce water
IMPLEMENTED                                   IMPLEMENTED                          drainage
IMPLEMENTED
Sunningdale      1,435          1,436                                                                                         Surface water
Budiriro V                      1,000     IMPLEMENTED                                    IMPLEMENTED                          drainage
IMPLEMENTED
BULAWAYO    Section 6            1,089          1,089      Extension of Rd.                                                 20 MVA            Water:
NKETA)                                                    IMPLEMENTED                                                       substation;       Individual connection
Switching         IMPLEMENTED
Station
IMPLEMENTED
Section 7       1,905           1,905
Sccion S        1,521           1,250
Section 9                      2,506                                                                        IMPLEMENTED   IMPLEMENTED
UTARE         Chikanga 1       1,522          1,477      Extension of            3.3m dam. collcctor    Reservoir         88KV line         Electricity:
Chikanga 11                    2,700      Acrodrome rd.            sewer                 8,000M3                              individual conneection
IMPLEMENTED             IMPLEMENTED           IMPLEMENTED    IMPLEMENTED   IMPLEMENTED
ASVINGO       Rujeko 1          525            770
Rejeko 11                       536                                                     675mmi/450mm                          Security/Stretd lights
bulk supply main                     IMPLEMENTED
Tot l                          11,349         18,185                                                    IMPLEMENTED
Refuse bins
IMPLEMENTED



4.Proiect Imolementation: Community facilities
Site Administration   Community    Bus
Primary School    Clinics         Markets    Offices            Centers          Terminal
HARARE         Budiriro I    2 x 21 classroom   1 satellite         1     1 large fully              1             1
IMPLEMENTED      IMPLEMENTED         IMP.   equipped            IMPLEMENTED         IMP.
IMPLEMENTED
Glen North                                          1                                1
IMP.                      IMPLEMENTED
Sunningdale   1 x 21 classroom   1 satellite        1      1 small fully             1             1
IMPLEMENTED      IMPLEMENTED         IMP.   equiped             IMPLEMENTED         IMP.
IMPLEMENTED
Budiriro V
BULAWAYO       Section 6     1 x 21 classroom    1 polyclinic       1     1 large fully              1
NEKETA                       IMPLEMENTED       IMPLEMENTED        IMP.   equipped            IMPLEMENTED
IMPLEMENTED
Section 7    1 x 21 classroom   Served by           1     Served by Phase 6          1
IMPLEMENTED       Phase 6 facility   IMP.   facility            IMPLEMENTED
Secion 8     1 x 21 classroom   Servved by          1     Served by Phase 6          1
IMPLEMENTED      Phase 6 facility    IMP.   facility            IMPLEMENTED
MUTARE         Chikanga I    1 x 21 classroom   1 Primary health    1     1 small fully              1
IMPLEMENTED       preventive care    IMP.   equipped            IMPLEMENTED
IMPLEMENTED                IMPLEMENTED
MASVINGO       Rejeko I      1 x 10 classroom    1 rural health     1     1 small fully              1
IMPLEMENTED      center standard     IMP.   equipped            IMPLEMENTED
IMPLEMENTED                IMPLEMENTED



- 20 -
S. Project Costs and
Financing
PROJECT COSTS
USSM
APPRAISAL                                   ACTUAL
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL                   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
Site Development                  33,914       6,195    40,109               21,980      2,115    24,095
Tnrsport                           1,022       1,684     2,706               12,697      7,782    20,479
Intitutional Development             502       5,189     5,691                  500      1,285      1,785
Housing Finance                   33,062      14,170    47,232               43,200      4,800    48,000
FrontEndFee*                           0           0         0                    0          0          0
Contingencies                     13,956       2,815    16,771                    0          0          0
TOTAL                             82,456      30,053   112,509               78,377     15,982    94,359
*approximately                 $100,000
PROJECT FINANCING
US$M
APPRAISAL                                   ACTUAL
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL                  LOCAL   FOREIGN  TOTAL
EBRD                              16,707      26,293    43,000               25,386     11,060    36,446
CDC                                9,600           0     9,600                9,600          0      9,600
Buikling Societies                33,840       3,760    37,600               33,600      4,800    38,400
Governmen                         22,400           0    22,400                9,791        122     9,913
TOTAL                             82,547      30,053   112,600               78,377     15,982    94,359



- 21 -
6. Proiect Results                      A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal
Indictors                                          Estimate                  Actual
Serviced Urban Residential Land:
Services residential plots for
four cities                                               11,349                   18,185
Community Facilities:
Clinics                                                         5                        5
Market areas (No.)                                              8                        8
Community Centers (No.)                                         8                        8
Bus Terminal (No.)                                              2                        2
Institutional Development Support
Number of trainees                                           300
More plots were actually serviced than planned as a result of cost savings.



7. Proiect Results                                    B. Economic Imoact
Appraisal Estimate             Actual
Economic Rate of Retum                                                                   12%
Underlying Assumptions
1. Land costs assumed Z$1.00 per square meter
2. Infrastructure includes on-site water, sewerage, roads, storm drains, land survey and engineering fees.
3. A total of 1436 houses developed on equal number of serviced plots at unit cost of Z$6450 (1988)
4. Overheads include cost of administering the project.
5. O&M costs assumed to be 2% of capital costs.
6. Includes imputed rental income for all housing units on 1436 plots as they are constructed according to
the following schedule: 550 in 1987/88; 886 in 1988/89; Z$ 100 per room per month
7. Deflators used: 1985-4.2; 1986-3.6; 1988-3.02; and 1989-2.06



- 23 -
ZIMBABWE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return Recalculation
of typical housing scheme
(Sunningdale, Harare)
All figures in 1992 Zimbabwe dollars (7)
Year       Land       Infra-     Housing      Overhead      O&M         Total      Imputed         Net
structure                                          Costs        rents       Benefits
Notes:               1          2             3            4          5                        6
1985    430,800   5,661,000                                    0    6,091,800                 -6,091,800
1986              2,181,000                                    0    2,181,000                 -2,181,000
1987                496,000                   480,000          0      976,000                   -976,000
1988                575,000    10,713,450      75,500          0   11,363,950                -11,363,950
1989                           15,201,102      66,500   1,336,551   16,604,153    2,640,000   -13,964,153
1990                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800    5,556,249
1991                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800    5,556,249
1992                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551   6,892,800     5,556!249
1993                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800    5,556,249
1994                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800    5,556,249
1995                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551   6,892,800     5,556,249
1996                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800    5,556,249
1997                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800    5,556,249
1998                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800    5,556,249
1999                                                    1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800    5,556,249
2000                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800   5,556.249
2001                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800   5,556,249
2002                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800   5,556,249
2003                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800   5,556,249
2004                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800   5,556,249
2005                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800   5,556,249
2006                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800   5,556,249
2007                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551   6,892,800    5,556,249
2008                                                     1,336,551    1,336,551    6,892,800   5,556,249
Internal Rate of Return  =               12%
Notes
I Land costs assumed ZS 1.00 per square meter
2 frastructure includes on-site water, sewerage, roads, storm drains, land survey
and engineering fees.
3 A total of 1436 houses developed on equal number of serviced plots at unit cost
of ZS6450 (1988).
4 Overheads include cost of administering the project
5 O&M costs assumed to be 2% of capital costs.
6 Includes imputed rental income for all housing units on 1436 plots as they are constructed
according to following schedule: 550 in 1987/88; 886 in 1988/89.
Imputed monthly rent assumed to be ZS 100 per room per month; all houses 4-roomed.  Page 1
7 Deflators used: 1985-4.2; 1986-3.6; 1987-3.2; 1988-3.02; 1989-2.66.



- 24 -
C. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at
Appraisal                 Status
Studies            Rural Transport Study      Funded by NDF under
Urban II Project



- 25 -
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
URBAN I PROJECT - LOAN 2445-ZIM
COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL COVENANTS
DESCRIPTION OF
COVENANTS                      SECTION          COMPLIANCE            REMARKS
Ensure that building                          Complied.
societies utilize satisfactory
beneficiary selection
criteria.
Establish and maintain a   3.02 (a)           Complied.
Steering Committee.
Establish and maintain a   3.02 (b)           Complied.
Program Coordination and
Monitoring Unit.
Establish and maintain an  3.03               Complied.
Urban Transport Unit.
Each local authority to    3.08 (a)           Complied.
establish and maintain
Working Committees
Each local authority to    3.08 (b)           Complied.
appoint a staff member as
Project Coordinator.
Each local authority to    3.08 (a)           Complied.
adopt satisfactory house
construction standards and
beneficiaries eligibility
criteria.
Government and each local   3.08 (c)          Complied.
authority to appoint
technical consultants.
Each local authority to    3.09 (b)           Complied.
establish a revolving fund
and pay into it proceeds of
sales of plots for
reinvestment in similar
housing projects.



- 26-                                  Page 2 of 3
The Borrower shall          4.02 (a)            Complied.
maintain or cause to be
maintained separate
accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the
operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of
the Project of the
departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
The Borrower shall cause    4.02 (b)            Complied.
each Local authority to
maintain records adequate
to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting
practices, the operations
and financial condition of
each such Local authority.
Without limitation on the   4.02 (c)
foregoing, the Borrower
shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be                     Complied.
maintained separate
accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of
statement of expenditures;
(ii) retain until one year                      N/A
after the closing date, all
records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents)
evidencing the expenditures
on account of which
withdrawals are requested
from the loan account on
the basis of statements of
expenditures; and
(iii) enable the Bank's                         N/A
representatives to examine
such records.



-27-                                   Page 3 of 3
The Borrower shall:        4.02 (d)
(i) have the accounts                          Not complied with
referred to in paragraph (a)                   for FY 90/91
of this Section, and cause                     (ZESA), FY 91/92
each Local Authority to                       (ZESA and Harare
have its accounts and                          City Council), FY
financial statements (balance                  92/93 (ZESA and
sheets, statements of income                   Harare City
and expenses and related                       Council).
statements), for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing
principles consistently
applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank, as                   Not complied with
soon as available, but in                      for FY 90/91
any case not later than six                    (ZESA), FY 91/92
months after the end of                        (ZESA and Harare
each such year certified                       City Council), FY
copies of such accounts and                    92/93 (ZESA and
financial statements and the                   Harare City
reports of such audit by                       Council).
said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including,
without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate
opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in
paragraph (c) of this Section
as to whether the proceeds
of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of
expenditures have been used
for the purpose for which
they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank                      N/A
such other information
concerning said records,
accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time
reasonably request.



- 28 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                         Total Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                                     170
Appraisal Through Board Approval                         7
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                     7
Supervision                                           111
Total                                                 295
B. Missio
State of Project    Month/Year   No. of        Days in       Special-
Cycle                             Persons      Field        izations
Through Appraisal
Identification      11/81         1              2           UP
Preparation         03/82         6            10    A/P(2),ECN,IDS,FA,SO
Preappraisal        10/82         4            10    A/P(2),EDC,IDS
Appraisal           10/83         6            15    A/P(2),FA,ECN,EDC,FA
Supervision
Supervision 1       08/84         3            10    A/P, ENG, UP
Supervision 2       10/84         1             6     A/P
Supervision 3       02/85         2            13    A/P, ENG
Supervision 4       05/85         1            10    A/P
Supervision 5       10/85         1            10    A/P
Supervision 6       01/86         3            12    A/PCO,TP
Supervision 7       06/86         3            14    AIP,CO,ENG
Supervision 8       11/86         2            10    A/PCO
Supervision 9       08/87         2            10    A/P,CO
Supervision 10      01/89         2            10    A/P,CO
Supervision 11      01/90         3            10    ENG,A/P
Supervision 12      07/91         2              8    ENG,A/P
Supervision 13      04/92         2            10    ENG,OA
Supervision 14      07/93         2              8    AIP,ECN
UP = Urban Planner, A/P = Architect/Planner, ECN = Economist, FA - Financial
Analyst, EDC = Educator, ENG = Engineer, IDS = Institutional Development Specialist,
TP = Transport Specialist, OA = Operations Analyst



