Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report.No. 5023-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
URBAN DEVELOPKENT PROJEIT
May 29, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Water Supply and Urban Deivelopment Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Zimbabwe dollar (Z$)
Z$1.00   =   US$0.96
US$1.00   =   Z$1.04
SDR 1.00   =   US$1.06023 1/
US$1,00   =   SDR 0.94319
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                 =   39.37 inches (in)
or 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)         =   10.76 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)          =   35.31 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
1 kilometer (km)      2         0.62 mile (mi.)
I square kilometer (km2)   =   0.386 square miles (sq. miles)
1 hectare (ha)              =   2.47 acres (ac)
or 10,000 sq. meters
1 litre (1)                 =   1.037 quarts liquid
or 3.26 gallons (gal)
1 cubic litre (cul)         =   1,000 litres
1 kilovolt (Kv)             =   1,000 volts
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)    =   1,000 kilovolt amperes
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MFEPD     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and Development
MLGTP     Ministry of Local Government and Town Planning
MCNH      Ministry of Construction and National Housing
MRRT      Ministry of Roads and Road Traffic
ZTSB      Zimbabwe Traffic Safety Board
PCMU      Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit
UTU       Urban Transport Unit
CDC       Commonwealth Development Corporation
OJT       On-the-Job Training
ZAAT      Zimbabwe Association of Acccunting Technicians
CATS      Contractor Advice and Training Service
SEDCO     Small Enterprise Development Corporation
ZDB       Zimbabwe Development Bank
LGA       Local Government Area
CABS      Central African Building Society
1/ As of March 2, 1984



ZIMBABWE             FOR O ICIAL USE ONLY
URBAN DVMPHENrT PROJBCT
STAFF APPRAISAL RePoRT
Table of Contents                           Page
PROJECT SUARY .... 0.....****...........                                      i
I.   NhTIONAL CONTEXT TO URBAN DEVELOPNEET ...................    ........    1
A. The Spatial Distribution of Population and Economic Activity.   1
B. Macro-Economic Background to Urban Development ............0...   2
C. Urban Policy Context.................-..-..*-....***3..*   3
D.  Emerging Policy Responses          .................       .... ..   4
E.  Bank Strategy in the Urban Sector .............................   7
II.  THE PROJECT ...................... .* ... e..*        ........           8
A.  Background to Project Preparation ............................       8
B.  Project Objectives ...........................................   9
C.  Project Composition ............ ..... ....    ..........           10
IIT. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIN  ............         ........................  15
A.  Project Costs .......... .....    .............                     15
B.  Financing Plan ...................... ......                        17
C.  Flow of Funds and Onlending Arrangeeeuts..........                  18
IV.       21LlENTTO  ........... ............. ...o................          20
A.  Overview of Institutional Arrangements .......................      20
B. Local Authorities ............... .............. .....  21
C.  Central Government ........ *..................                     22
F. Disbursements .......................       .......                  27
G.  Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements ..................      28
H.  Implementation Schedule .........** ...........................  29
I.  Project Supervision .............................._                 29
V* FIRCNCIAL ^ARALSIS .....                 .........    29
A. Municipal Finance ........ .................                         29
B.  Project Impact on Local Authorities and Cost Recovery.........  34
C.  Building Society Operations.e           . ............ 36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zimbabwe in October 1983. Mission members included Messrs. J. Racki
(Mission Chief), P. Patel, (Deputy Division Chief), M. Rathnam, G. Beier
and Ms. S. Wakeham and Mr. I. Hamilton (Consultants). During the
mission Messrs. P. Ofosu-Amaah (LEG) and R. Glaeser (EAI) also
participated. The Commonwealth Development Corporation was represented by
Mr. A. Knight (Consultant).
IThis document has a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                                Page
Vie PROJECT JUSTIPICATION .......... ... ... ................. ......... . 39
A.  Primary Project Justification ................................  39
B.  Direct Quantifiable Benefits:  Shelter Components ............  40
C.  Non-Quantifiable Benefits:..Transport C     .......     ......  41
D.  Intangible Benefits:  Preserving and Redirecting Institutions  41
E.  Poverty Impact and Affordability .............. ...............  42
F.  Project Risks ................................................ 43
VIII. RCSEDToS ................... o...................................  45
Text Tables
Table III-1:  Summary of Project Costs ................................  16
Table II1-2:  Summary of Project Financing Plan .......................   17
Table III-3:  Annual Allocation by Funding Source .....................  17
Table IV-1 : Procurement Arrangements ................................   27
Table IV-2 : Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .................... .   28
Table V-1  : Aggregate Cost Recvery ...............................e..   37
Table V-2  : Composition of Building Societies Assets ................ 38
Text Charts
Chart III-1: Flow of Funds ......... ..........................................  19
Annexes
Annex 1L
Table 1: Infrastructure Component by Site and Town
Table 2: Community Facilities by Site and Twon
Annex 2
Local Authority On-the-Job Training Program;
Draft Curricula
Annex 3
Table  1:  Expenditure Phasing and Disbursement by Component
Table  2:  Disbursements
Table  3:  Flow of Funds by Component and Implementing Agency
Table  4:  Project Cash Flows
Table  5: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Table  6: Detailed Cost Estimates:  Harare--Glen Nora
Table  7: Detailed Cost Estimates:  Harare-Sun/St. Martins
Table  8: Detailed Cost Estimates:  Harare-HPG
Table  9:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Bulawayo--Nketa 6
Table 10:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Bulawayo--Nketa 7
Table 11:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Bulawayo-Nketa 8
Table 12:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Mutare--Devonshire
Table 13:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Masvingo--Town Center South



Annex 4
Allocation and Disbursement Procedures for Building Society Loans.
Schedule 1: Phasing of Training Courses
Schedule 2: Training Aids and Equipment
Chart A   : Organization of Harare City Council
Chart B   : Orgaaization of Bulawayo City Council
Chart C   : Organization of Mutare City Council
Chart D   : Organization of Masvingo Town Council
Chart E   : Proposed Structure and Functions of Community Development
Services Unit for Sites and Services
Chart F   : Organization of Department of Local Government Promotion
and Training in MLGTP
Chart G   : Proposed Structure of CATS in MCNH
Annex 5
A. Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy
B. Impact of Interest Rate Modifications on Building Societies
Table  1:  Bulawayo Trend Analysis of Revenue and Expenditure
Table  2:  Harare Trend Analysis of Revenue and Expenditure
Table  3:  Masvingo Trend Analysis of Revenue and Expenditure
Table  4:  Mutare Trend Analysis of Revenue and Expenditure
Table  5:  Bulawayo Estimates Recurrent Income and Expenditure
Table  6:  Harare Estimates Recurrent Income and Expenditure
Table  7:  Masvingo Estimates Recurrent Income and Expenditure
Table  8:  Mutare Estimates Recurrent Income and Expenditure
Table  9:  Summary Project Cost Recovery
Table 10: Harare Summary Cost Recovery
Table 11: Harare: Sun/St Martins Cost Recovery
Table 12: Harare: Glen Nora Cost Recovery
Table 13: Harare: MPG Cost Recovery
Table 14: Bulawayo Summary Cost Recovery
Table 15: Bulawayo: Nketa 6 Cost Recovery
Table 16: Bulawayo: Nketa 7 Cost Recovery
Table 17:  Bulawayo:  Nketa 8 Cost Recovery
Table 18: Mutare: Devonshire Cost Recovery
Table 19: Masvingo: Town Center Soutb Cost Recovery
Table 20: Progress of Building Societies, 1973-82; Assets
Table 21: Liabilities
Annex 6
Table 1: Details of Rate of Return Calculations; Shelter Programs
Naps
Urban Development Project:  Project Towns ................. IBRD 18162
Urban Development Project: Mutare Project
Sites and Proposed Off-Site Infrastructure .......... IBRD 18163
Urban Development Project:  Harare Project Sites  ....... IBRD 18164
Urban Development Project: Hasvingo Project
Sites and Proposed Off-Site Infrastructure .......... IBRD 18165
Urban Development Project:  Bulawayo Project Sites  ..... IBRD 18166



PROJECT SUNARY
Borrower:     Government of Zimbabwe.
Amount:       US$43.0 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:        Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace with vari-
able interest rate.
Cofinancing:  Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), United Kingdom.
Objectives    The first Bank Group financed urban project in Zimbabwe would
& Project     introduce structural change in the housing market and help
Description:  increase the supply of affordable, low-cost housing and re-
lated urban services. It would also strengthen the Govern-
ment's efforts to improve operations and maintenance of urban
infrastructure and services through manpower development and
training programs. The project would support Government pol-
icy initiatives and directions in key areas of urban develop-
ment and stimulate private sector activities. More specifi-
cally, the project would:
Mi)    provide urban residential land and community facili-
ties, especially for poorer segments of the urban pop-
ulation;
(ii)   provide long-term housing financing from the private
sector to lower-income beneficiaries (owner occupiers
who would choose the mode of construction);
(iii)  strengthen institutions and streanline procedures
through revised division of labor and responsibilities
among key public and private institutiors operating in
the urban sector. To support this, extensive on-the-
job training programs and technical assistance to cen-
tral and local governments are included; and
(iv)   improve urban transport.
Benefits      Direct quantifiable benefits would be provision of housing at
& Risks:      affordable standards to the poorer segments of the urban pop-
ulation.  Indirect benefits include upgraded urban transport
conditions, manpower development and training, and innovative
institutional as well as procedural improvements, especially
in housing finance. Main project risks relate to (i) contin-
uity of the urban development program to fully realize



- ii -
the expected longer-term benefits and (ii) loss of qualified
staff. To minimize risks, prcvision for the preparation of
future investments has been included and assuming continued
receptivity to Bank advice, further support is foreseen.
Also staffing and training arrangements have been initiated
including the provision of technical assistance.
Estimated Cost
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total
1. Urban Residential Infrastructure
& Services                        33.0       6.2     39.2
2. Housing Finance                            33.1     14.1      47.2
3. Institutional Development                   0.5      5.2       5.7
4. Urban Transport & Traffic Management        1.0      1.7       2.7
Total Base Cost                            67.6     27.2      94.8
Physical Contingencies                      3.4      0.7       4.1
Price Contingencies                        11.5      2.1      13.6
Total Project Cost a/                      82.5     30.0    112.5
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                  -        0.1       0.1
Total Ftnancing Required                   82.5     30.1    112.6
.~ =                                       =
Financing Plan                                       Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                  27.0     16.0     43.0
CDC                    -        9.6       9.6
Building Societies   33.1       4.5      37.6
Government            22.4      -        22.4
TOTAL                82.5     30.1    112.6
=a/ TU
a/ Taxes and duties amount to US$4.8 million equivalent.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                                (US$ Million)
FY        85   86   87   88   89   90
Annual        0.4  7.0 17.8 12.7  4.5  0.6
Cumulative    0.4  7.4 25.2 37.9 42.4 43.0
Rate of
Return:        15.3 percent.
Appraisal
Report:       Report No. 5023-ZIM, dated May 29, 1984.
Maps:         No. IBRD 18162
IBRD 18163
IBRD 18164
IBRD 18165
IBRD 18166



I.  NATIONAL CONTEXT 70 URBAN DEVELOPMENT
A. The Spatial Distribution of Population and Economic Activity
1.01      About 1.7 million people, 23% of Zimbabwe's population, live in
towns of 15,000 persons or more. During the next two decades, urban areas
are likely to grow very rapidly, averaging at least 7X annually. About
half of the urban growth will be caused by natural increase and half by
migration from rural areas, and growth will be most rapid between
1981-1990, perhaps as high as 10% per year. The reasons for the expected
rapid urban growth include: relaxation of restrictions which held down
migration to towns prior to independence; migration of families to join the
high proportion of males living in cities; continued rapid population
growth which strains the resources of the communal land areas, where the
bulk of the rural population live; and the attraction of high average
incomes in cities compared to incomes in communal lands or wages on
commercial farms. These determinants of urban growth are similar to those
in other African countries at independence. They invariably produced a
spurt in urbanization in the first decade after independence, during which
urban population nearly doubled.
1.02      For a country at Zimbabwe's level of development, the spatial
distribution of towns is unusually favorable. Nevertheless, the towns are
generally perceived as having developed, prior to independence, to serve
the modern commercial sector, while the communal lands were badly
neglected. There is, consequently, a need for investment in service and
marketing centers in the communal areas to offset the historical neglect.
However, given the locational and distributional advantages (described
below) offered by existing urban areas, the major demand on resources for
urban infrastructure and housing will be in the existing centers.
L.03      All towns of 15,000 persons or more lie on a main line of rail or
on relatively short branch. lines and, for the most part, the main towns are
well distributed. None of the main towns is at an overwhelming disadvan-
tage, relative to national markets. In general, towns have surplus land
developed for industries. Thus, for most manufacturing purposes, the
decision to locate ir a secondary town would not entail any delay or
necessitate any additional infrastructure investment.
1.04      The location of towns relative to the concentration of rural
populations is also favorable. The areas of greatest rural density occur
around Harare, Mutare, Masvingo and Zvishavane, and in a band stretching
from Mutare through Masvingo (see Map IBRD 18162). The areas that are far
from the towns, in the western portion of the country, have relatively
sparse rural populations.
1.05      The secondary towns, such as Kwe Kwe, Mutare and Gweru, appear to
be viable, and can be expected to absorb a good share of the urban influx.
Comparing the wage employment growth rates over the last decade, only
Kadoma (of the towns for which data are available) grew much more slowly
than the biggest towns such as Harare and Bulawayo, while from 1981 to



- 2 -
September 1983 all except Kwe Kwe had employment growth in the range of
3.6% to 5.0%. The continued expansion of secondary towns across a wide
geographical area--with no well-articulated decentralization policies-is
consistent with the experience of the previous decade, and there is no
reason to expect the pattern to change, as long as urban development
continues to rely heavily on decentralized decisions, in largely
independent towns.
B. Macro-Economic Background to Urban Development
1.06      Although the bulk of Zimbabwe's population lives in rural areas,
they produce relatively little of the total output of the economy. About
50Z of the population live on communal lands and 27% live on privately
owned farms. Agriculture and forestry, the main economic activities of
rural areas, produced 15% of the 1982 GDP. Of gross agricultural output
about one-quarter was produced on communal lands, three-quarters on
privately owned rural land. Allowing for the fact that agriculture on
private farms uses many purchased inputs, communal lands are estimated to
have produced about one-third of agricultural value added or 5% of GDP.
With 50% of the population (that is the communal lands population)
producing only 5% of GDP, they constitute an easily identified and very
large poverty group. In 1982, 74% of wage employment and 85% of GDP were
concentrated in non-agricultural sectors, and the bulk of this activity was
urban.  Of total wage employment 48% of the persons employed were
concentrated in seven major towns, and they earned 67% of all wage
incomes. Nearly two out of five residents in the seven major cities are
wage earners.
1.07      It cannot be expected that the high proportion of wage earners
will be maintained with rapid population growth. With the very rapid (and
unsustainable) spurt in production in the immediate post-independence
period (1980-1981), non-agricultural wage employment in 1982 was only 18.7%
higher than that of 1979. Even if wage employment increases at this rate
could be sustained, they would still imply a higher dependency ratio in the
future, and larger percentages of the urban population in self-employment.
Average urban incomes may be lower, and certainly there will be a rapidly
increasing number of low-income urban families. The design of all urban
services will have to meet more stringent standards of affordability.
1.08      The extreme duality of Zimbabwe's economy-high average incomes
in urban areas and for the owners of farms in modern agricultural areas,
and very low average incomes in communal lands and for agricultural labor
on modern farms-presents the country with immense challenges. If
reasonable growth of incomes is to occur on a broad front, then a balance
of development efforts, including rapid urban employment growth,
improvement in productivity in communal areas, and resettlement into
under-utilized agricultural lands outside the communal areas, are
necessary.
1.09      Zimbabwe's potential for employment growth in the agricultural
sector arises from two main sources: technological improvement in communal



- 3 -
areas will increase labor use per hectare, and more intensive use of part
of the privately owned lands may allow some movement of labor from communal
lands. It is important to realize, in the context of the short-run
discussion of urban development, that the potential of both of these
sources is limited, and that employment outside of agriculture will have to
absorb a major portion of the labor force increases if Zimbabwe is to
achieve a reasonable growth of income for the families in the bottom half
of the income distribution.
1.10      The challenge facing Zimbabwe in attempting to increase
employment and incomes in communal areas is formidable. For the most part,
these lands are located in areas of unreliable rainfall, making intensive
cultivation dependent on very good management. It is probably inevitable
that for the next few years the growth of incomes in communal lands will
lag behind the natural population growth and labor force growth there.l/
However, urban population growth rates of about 7% and modest achievements
in rural resettlement would stabilize the population on communal lands for
the decade and some growth in per capita income in the communal areas can
be expected. The link between urban growth and average income growth of
the population remaining on communal lands is thus strong and direct.
For the urban sector to fulfill a role that adequately complements the
priority placed on rural development, government urban policies must be
designed to maximize the capacity of the urban areas to absorb additional
population.
C. Urban Policy Context
1.11      At the time of independence, Zimbabwe's cities and towns had a
history of administrative independence from the Central Government, and
they were financially sound, with a high level of infrastructure and
maintenance standards. Urban governments provide the bulk of urban
services, including low-cost housing for the urban poor, water,
electricity, non-national streets and roads, parks, playgrounds,
cemeteries, and the full maintenance of urban services and infrastructure,
using their own revenues or funds borrowed either in the market or from
Central Government. To the extent that they borrow, debts are serviced
from local revenues. Standards of service in the high income residential
areas are very high, and even in the lower income high density areas,
infrastructure standards are relatively high (i.e., paved roads, individual
household water supply, water borne sewerage, adequate street lighting).
The urban policy of the Central Government in the pre-independence period
can be summarized as non-interventionist; Central Government took
responsibility for primary education and some health care in urban areas,
and made loans, primarily for low-cost housing, but generally confined its
influence on urban policy to review of budgets and provision of these
selected services.
1/ This is examined in more detail in the forthcoming Urban Sector Report.



-4-
1.12      The post-independence era presents the cities with new
challenges, chief of which is a doubling (or more) of the rate of growth of
urban population combined with a lower percentage of high-income,
formally-employed urban residents. At the same time that urban areas are
caught in the double bind of increased needs and lower average incomes, the
Central Government is increasingly channeling scarce investment resources
to the communal agricultural areas, where the bulk of the low-income
population live at very low-average incomes. The combination of increased
service needs and reduction of Central Government support (e.g., the
attempt to shift the burden of education and health services to cities)
could cause deteriorating trends in local authority finances. To date,
through increases in tariffs and rates, the local authorities have been
able to maintain their fiscal balance (paras. 5.10 to 5.20). Thus the
primary target of urban policy must be to make more efficient use of fewer
public resources per capita, while simultaneously having to gear up for a
rapid increase in the supply of services.
1.13      The loss of qualified administrative and maintenance personnel
will make this task still more difficult. Since independence there has
been a constant outflow of qualified personnel from both the public and
private sectors, and the urban governments have found themselves left with
a considerably reduced level of technical and administrative staff. Thus
they must simultaneously carry an increased work-load while rapidly
upgrading existing underqualified staff or providing appropriate job
orientation and training for new recruits.
D. Em-erging Policy Responses
1.14      Government has initiated a number of major policy responses
across a broad front which should serve as an effective basis for
addressing many of the problems confronting the urban sector. To the
extent that regulations have been introduced, these are pragmatic and
implemented responsively, taking into account market conditions. Given the
generally appropriate nature of these responses, a principle objective of
the Bank would therefore be to identify suitable strategies to support
Government's initiatives.
Mobilizing Private Resources for Urban Investment
1.15      The housing market in Zimbabwe, prior to independence, could be
characterized as comprising two essentially separate delivery systems. One
was private sector based and enjoyed a well developed supply capacity,
underpinned by a sophisticated housing finance capability provided through
a network of efficient financial intermediaries (building societies) that
was unique in East Africa (and among our borrowers in general). Zimbabwe's
building societies are financially strong private institutions with a
record of sound management and substantial resource mobilization. From
1975-80, for example, their assets increased by Z$48.0 million per year,
and their mortgages and loans grew at ZS29.0 million per year. Access to
this financial system was limited to middle- and upper-income households,
and for all practical purposes excluded lower-income households.  The other
system was a public sector based delivery program implemented by the local
authorities and designed for lower-income (black) households, which



- 5 -
comprised approximately 50% of the capital expenditures of cities prior to
independence. Compared with public housing programs elsewhere (and on its
own merits), it was a uniquely efficient system of supply in which all
aspects of project identification, design and implementation were the
responsibility of very capable local authorities, and which depended in its
entirety on public sources of funding.
1.16      The new situation after independence requires fundamental changes
to address new needs. Presaging the evolution of such changes, the markets
themselves have begun to experience substantial stress. Demand for middle-
and upper-income housing decreased significantly after independence as a
result of the rapid movement of whites out of the country (resulting in a
substantial existing stock becoming available) combined with a relatively
slow economic transition of black families into higher income groups.
Nevertheless, the capacity of the building societies to mobilize resources
(despite government measures to redirect savings to other financial
intermediaries) has remained impressive (paras. 5.29 to 5.37), resulting in
a current surplus of mortgage funds. However, building society lending
activities continue to favor middle-income families, (though no longer
favoring whites), partly as a reflex extension of past practices and partly
because appropriate mechanisms that would enable a shift to lower income
families do not exist.
1.17      At the same time that the building societies are experiencing an
excess supply of housing finance resources, the lower income housing
program administered through the local authorities is facing a decrease in
funding availability. Prior to independence, total annual public
expenditure by local authorities on low-income housing of about Z$45-50
million was financed by Central Government loans (Z$30-35 million) and by
local authority savings and market borrowings. Recently, Central
Government loan funds were reduced to Z$20 million for FY83/84. Local
government savings available for low-cost housing have also declined
dramatically due to increasing pressure on recurrent budgets, and market
borrowings by local government for this purpose are no longer permitted. A
major innovatioji in housing finance is required, which would tap
non-government sources of funds to support low-cost housing, and building
societies are a prime potential source of these funds. The recently
prepared Sector Report / concluded that a restructuring of the housing
market that would place the supply of low-cost housing finance on a fully
commercial basis thus ensuring a continuing, self-replicating system, was
necessary and feasible. Government has subsequently adopted a policy in
which building society involvement in the low-income housing market3/
would be facilitated (paras. 2.11 to 2.13).
2/ Zimbabwe Urban Sector Report.
3/ While building societies did lend block amounts to the National Housing
Fund (and its predecessors) for use in low-income housing programs,
these were usually surplus funds of limited amounts and did not directly
involve the beneficiaries (another self-limiting factor to the size of
these amounts).



- 6 -
Introducing Low-Cost, Affordable Housing Standards
1.18      During the discussions of the Sector Report with Government,
there was consensus on the importance of delivering affordable housing and
Government reaffirmed the policy of providing very low-cost, minimum
standard solutions (serviced sites). This strategy will avoid the
production of housing affordable to families above the 85th percentile
(which under current budgetary allocations, would meet less than 15X of the
annual increase in demand) and will ensure that people at about the 15th
percentile (which would meet about 60Z of projected annual growth in
demand) are served. This has been an important aspect of emerging
government policy regarding the achievement of basic poverty objectives, as
well as the establishment of a credible urban investment program in the
macro-economic context of scarce resources.
1.19      If a program of servicing urban residential land is to be
introduced on a significant scale, and if this is to make the most
efficient use of private sector resources, then a shift in the role of
local authorities to include a substantial investment in the supply of
serviced land is necessary. This shift would have the benefit of
concentrating a major aspect of local authority responsibilities on key
functions for which their prior experience makes them uniquely qualified,
while at the same time streamlining their operations in line with the
manpower constraints they are currently encountering. An additional
advantage would be that a greater share of the limited public resources
available could be fully utilized for servicing land, thus increasing
shelter opportunities for low-income households and better matching growth
in demand. Current government plans indicate that this strategy would be
introduced on a significant scale (para. 2.01).
Addressing Local Authority Manpower Needs
1.20      Maintaining (and strengthening where problems were zinarging) the
efficiency of the local authorities is central to the success of any urban
investment program, and has important macro-economic consequences. During
project preparation, an evaluation of manpower trends in the local
authorities and a detailed training needs assessment concluded that the
first priority facing the urban areas is to ensure a continued capacity for
operating and maintaining the main services. Staff losses by the local
authorities at all skill levels have been extensive. Replacement of
professional staff is at best a long-term exercise. This signals a period
during which local authority organization will probably evolve from a
situation with heavy reliance on depth in manpower at all skill levels, to
one with a far smaller professional and managerial pool to draw on locally,
and hence greater dependence on technician and sub-professional level
staff. It is therefore essential to: (i) create substantial depth, lu the
near term, in the availability of suitably trained sub-professional and
technical staff for the local authority system in order to ensure
stability; and (ii) have maximum impact in the shortest possible time in
order to provide continuity in essential functions, particularly during the
current period of transition. Government recognizes the need for early and
sustained training programs for the local authorities, and is seeking to



introduce a strategy that would both address immediate manpower
requirements (paras. 2.14 to 2.18) as well as provide for the formulation
and initiation (with the support of consultants already in place) of
longer-term manpower development programs, taking particular account of the
continuing loss of more experienced staff.
E. Bank Strategy in the Urban Sector
1.21      Soon after independence, Government requested the Bank to study
the urban sector and present recommendations for the development of sound
urban policies and possible Bank interventions. The Bank prepared a Sector
Report which was recently discussed with the Ministries of Finance and
Economic Planning and Development, Local Government and Town Planning, and
Construction and National Housing. The main recommendations of the
forthcoming report are:
(a) the Government needs to recognize the impending urban influx,
which is likely to be much larger than the towns or the Central
Government were expecting;
(b) the financial health of the cities should be preserved tbrough
sound financial management by the local governments, with support
from the Central Government;
Cc) attention must be paid to the manpower needs of the local
authorities. The benefits of maintaining well-run, autonomous,
self-sufficient cities capable of delivering and operating the
full range of local services must be emphasized;
-d) the pitfalls of delivering high standard services to a few and no
services to the many should be avoided;
(e) past practices in urban service delivery could not be sustained,
given the post-independence reality of rapid urban popnlation
growth and limited public sector funds; and
(f) urban problems could be controlled with a shift of government
activity in the housing and infrastructure sector to the
provision of serviced land and involvement of the private sector
(building societies' and households' own savings) in financing
housing construction.
1.22      The understanding of Zimbabwe's urban sector provided by the
Sector Report came at a particularly useful time as major poicy reform was
under review by Government. In addition to key issues confronting the
sector that were identified in the report, and its recommendations on
appropriate institutional and policy responses, the Sector Report has
served as the basis for preparing this first Bank lending operation in the
sector. The project, the scale and scope of which are designed to provide
feasible policy and institutional support within existing implementation
capacities, is only a first step. The report necessarily takes a
longer-term view than that afforded by the time frame of a single project.
If the



- 8 -
objectives envisaged are to be achieved and sustained, continued support
including follow-up operations is essential.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Background to Project Preparation
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.01      During discussions of the Sector Report with Government, in which
there was general agreement on the recommendations of the Report,
particular emphasis was placed on the need for: (i) mobilizing additional
resources for financing urban housing; (ii) ensuring that affordable
housing standards be adopted on a broad front as a major element of
Government's housing program; and (iii) maintaining and strengthening local
authority operating and maintenance capacities through the introduction of
appropriately designed training programs. The first Bank project in the
urban sector, which was identified on the basis of the findings of the
Sector Report, will assist the Government in implementing a broad-based
program to achieve these objectives.
2.02      Taking into account the potential impact of resource mobilization
through the involvement of the private sector, Bank support has been
designed around a housing finance program that would complement investments
in serviced plots and that would involve existing financial intermediaries
in the private sector in the provision of mortgage loans to low-income
households. Bank involvement has been central to the participation of the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (para. 2.12) and the .private sector
institutions in the type of operations proposed under the project. An
important aspect underlying the proposed reorientation of investment by the
private sector is that the changes envisaged do not divert funds otherwise
earmarked for priority sectors, but realign current lending practices of
those institutions (which are specifically designed to provide housing
finance) so as to include low-income families.
2.03      Bank assistance would also support a shift in local authority
responsibility to a housing program providing for the delivery of minimum-
cost serviced residential plots on a significant scale. The policy and
economic impacts of introducing affordable standards depend in large
measure on (i) the scale of the investment and its proportion of the annual
government allocation for housing during the project implementation period
(about 50%); (ii) its contribution to meeting projected growth in effective
demand during the project period; and (iii) the number of urban areas (and
their share of total urban population) to be included in the project. Bank
participation has been a key factor in adapting standards to the financial
resources of the country.
2.04      In order to continue sound local government during the current
period of transition, Bank support has also been designed to introduce a
local authority training program that would strengthen the key areas of
responsibility of local government and ensure continued adequate levels of
service delivery and maintenance. This is necessary as urban investment
strategies in Zimbabwe depend for their impact on continued capabilities in



the management of urban services at the local government level. In
particular, past capacities for revenue generation and financial
management, project preparation and implementation, and service operation
and maintenance have underpinned the successful role of the local
authorities. Bank support was essential if manpower development programs
of sufficient scope were to be introduced to address local authority needs
in the near term.
Criteria for Selection of Project Towns
2.05      While several elements in the project (for example, local
authority training) address needs of all urban areas in Zimbabwe, the major
part of the investment will be in Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and Masvingo.
The criteria for selection of these towns included: (i) scale and projected
population growth; (ii) economic and employment base and growth potential;
(iii) existing living conditions such as overcrowding and large housing
waiting lists; geographic distribution of the towns and economic linkages
with the rural hinterland; (iv) size and density of the adjacent rural
population; (v) and the importance of introducing the policy objectives
under the project on as broad a front as possible.
2.06      The above four towns represent a population of about 1.2 million
out of a total urban population of 1.7 million. Thus, in addition to the
impact on urban policy in general, the project will directly affect the
service delivery and maintenance programs of towns accommodating over 7OZ
of the urban population in Zimbabwe.
B. Project Objectives
2.07      The primary objectives of the project are to:
(a) Promote the financial and institutional capacity for
increasing the supply of affordable housing and related
services in Zimbabwe by restructuring the housing delivery
and mortgage financing markets. This includes:
(i) greater concentration of local authority
responsibilities for housing supply on the servIcing
of residential land;
(ii) introducing the responsibility for financing low-cost
housing to the private sector through the existing
network of financial intermediaries;
(iii)  establishing housing delivery and mortgage financing
procedures that facilitate implementation of the
above institutional changes;
(iv) maintaining affordable standards that ensure program
replicability; and
(v) strengthening the institutional capacity for urban
management of local government in Zimbabwe;



- 10 -
(b)  Strengthen the Government's efforts to preserve, through
manpower development and training programs, both the fiscal
integrity as well as the technical capacity of the local
authorities for supplying, operating and maintaining
essential urban infrastructure and services; and
(c) Provide strategic support in key areas of urban development
where new policy directions (in addition to those areas
described above) are currently being formulated, such as
transportation.
C. Project Composition
2.08      The project components and a summary of the project costs are as
follows:
Z of
Base Cost Total Base
Project Component                       (Z$ '1000)     Cost
(a) Servicing of urban land and provision of related
community facilities for residential development. 40,844        41.3
(b) Housing Finance to beneficiaries for long-term
mortgage loans.                                     49,200      49.8
(c) Institutional Development Support. Technician
(sub-professional) on-the-job training programs
for all urban local authorities, and technical
assistance to central and local governments for
the development and coordination of urban
investment programs.                                 5,927        6.0
(d) Urban Transport including transport supply
studies, road safety support, assistance in
-   developing transport planning capabilities, and
public transport improvement measures.               2,819        2.9
98,790     100.0
Serviced Urban Residential Land and Related Comunity Facilities
2.09      Serviced Urban Residential Land.  Provision of a total of about
11,350 serviced residential plots in the four cities. The majority of
plots.(about 70%) in each site are at the minimum size of 300 square
meters. The remainder (approximately 30%) ranges from 450-600 square
meters. In practice more than one family can be expected to occupy one
plot. If current plot occupancy ratios (3-4 families per plot) occur,
about 40% of new demand in all urban areas (over 45,000 families) will be
served. Servicing of land for local commercial and industrial require-
ments, and community facilities, is also included, as is the necessary
off-site infrastructure. On average, over 70% of the gross area



- 11 -
of each project site is allocated to residential (50%) and commercial/
industrial and community facility (20%) uses. Table 1 in Annex 1
summarizes the off-site and on-site infrastructure to be provided.
2.10      Community Facilities.  The project includes funds for community
facilities such as primary schools, clinics, market areas, community
centers and bus termini. The level of provision under the project, in
terms of facilities to service population ratios, for schools, clinics and
community centers, is in line with current standards in operation in the
cities. The provision of clinics would be complemented by activities
proposed for a Bank assisted family health project which is currently under
preparation. This is being coordinated with staff of the Population,
Health and Nutrition Department (PHN). The design of the schools, clinics
and community centers are based on revised minimum standards of
construction reviewed during appraisal. Final designs will be submitted to
the Bank for approval prior to commencement of bidding procedures. Minimum
standards of provision for the markets and bus termini will be included.
Table 2 in Annex 1 summarizes the community facilities included in the
project.
Housing Finance
2.11      Despite the excellent institutional capacities for efficiently
mobilizing resources and implementing large scale low-cost housing programs
(para. 1.15), two critical gaps have been identified. One is the current
lack of any role by the private sector in generating significant resources
for low-cost housing supply; the other is the absence of any linkage
between the public sector housing program and private sources of finance
(para. 1.16).
2.12      The main feature of the project, and the single most important
contribution that it could make, has been to fill these gaps, working in
collaboration with the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), by
providing the requisite linkages between the delivery systems and the
financing institutions. In making the linkages, existing constraints to
building society participation were identified and, together with CDC,
Government and the building societies, a strategy designed for eliminating
them. This has included (i) the provision of a long-term loan totalling
Z$10.0 million to the building societies as seed capital at about their
current average cost of borrowing through co-financing from CDC; (ii)
obtaining government agreement on the exclusion from the liquidity
requirements of funds lent for low-cost housing; and (iii) establishing the
detailed mechanisms necessary for coordinating the procedures required of
all the participants (the building societies, the cities and the
beneficiaries).
2.13      Housing finance will be provided by the building societies in the
amount of Z$39.2 million (in addition to the CDC loan), for a total of
Z$49.2 million. This is more than sufficient for an average loan to
individual beneficiaries of Z$2,200, which is the estimated cost of one
room plus wet core (the minimum requirement permitting occupation of a plot
and access to a mortgage loan) plus chargeable costs of serviced land.



- 12 -
When viewed against the demand for loans under the Glen View Project,4/ it
appears likely that the full Z$49.2 million may not be utilized in project
areas. However, this component (consistent with the objective of
introducing a programmatic approach to housing supply) is designed to
introduce a line of credit for low-cost housing in general. Loans will,
therefore, not be limited to sites serviced under the project but (subject
to first call on funds being available to beneficiaries of plots under the
project) will be offered to low-income families participating in other
low-cost housing projects.
Institutional Development
2.14      Local Authority Training.  The project would support an
on-the-job training (OJT) program, which is consistent with a shift in
Zimbabwe that takes into account the long-term relatively high-cost nature
of existing polytechnic-based apprenticeship programs, and places greater
emphasis on trade schools and accreditation procedures that recognize and
reward skills acquired through OJT and related experieneze. It is expected
that the OJT component of the project will bridge an estimated 3-4 year
timelag before a more flexible vocational training scheme, which will
provide a steady flow of skilled manpower: emerges. The same process
applies to such areas as accounting technicians and administrators. The
intensive training program introduced under the project, with its emphasis
on quick results (and which includes the training of trainers), will create
an in-service training tradition and framework which will then remain to
support the emerging formal systems to whatever extent necessary.
2.15      The project will offer OJT for key professional, sub-
professional, technical and skilled occupations in the Treasurers,
Works/Engineers, and Community Services/Housing Departments for all urban
local authorities in Zimbabwe. All functions of local authorities were
evaluated and the above three departments were selected primarily because,
in addition to their central roles in providing essential municipal
services, they (i) were important to the project; (ii) had no satisfactory
local training at present; (iii) had serious staff shortages (as opposed to
critical, where technical assistance would be necessary); and (iv) had an
existing framework on which training could be developed.
4/ Glen View is a pilot site and service project of about 8,000 plots in
Harare. The value of the housing built to permanent standards of
construction is estimated by HCC at about Z$38.0 million (at market
prices). Only Z$1.0 million of this is based on loans (from HCC), the
rest coming from the beneficiaries directly. Although the actual cost
to the beneficiaries may be overstated (for example, informal
contractors and second-hand materials would considerably reduce costs),
the direct savings mobilized are clearly substantial. While it is
believed unlikely that similar amounts of direct savings will continue
to be available for investment in housing, and hence access to larger
amounts of loan funds will be necessary, mobilization of considerable
beneficiary savings will probably still occur.



- 13 -
2.16      Based on the manpower assessment undertaken during project
preparation, the program will provide OJT as follows:
Department                           Skill                 No. of Trainees
Treasurers                  Accountants                           120
Accounting Technicians               120
24_0
Works                       Automotive Mechanics                  100
Plant Mechanics                       60
Mechanical Fitters                    60
220
Water & Sewerage Supervisors          80
Community Services          Building Demonstrators (1/250)        100
(Housing)                Revenue Staff (1/200)                120
Storemen (1/500)                      50
Administrators (1/600)                40
310
2.17      Training will take place over 3.5 years and includes a total Of
23.5 consultant staff-years, providing for a nine-person training team,
with each instructor required for varying periods (see Schedule 1, Annex
2). Terms of reference constituting a request for proposals from suitably
qualified consulting firms were reviewed and agreed on during
negotiations. Draft curricula (see Annex 2) have been completed and Will
be finalized in more detail during the first phase of implementation of
this component.  Training aids, equipment and vehicles are summarized in
Schedule 2, Annex 4.
2.18      The training component also includes funding for the setting up
costs, and the first 18 months' operating costs, of the Zimbabwe
Association of Accounting Technicians (ZAAT). ZAAT will fulfill an
important function as a sub-professional body, with membership indicating
accredited qualifications.
2.19      Technical Assistance.  In addition to the local authority OJT,
the project will strengthen institutional capacities for urban management
by assisting in the development of:
(a) Program Development and Coordination Capabilities. It is
proposed that a small program unit (Program Coordination and
Monitoring Unit-PCMU) be set up in MLGTP to strengthen the
capacity for managing urban development programs; provide
guidance and assistance to the local authorities in their
capital budgeting and forward planning exercises; and
provide overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation for



- 14 -
the urban project. Eight consultant staff-years (one
Program Coordinator and one Financial Analyst) and 12 local
fixed-term contract staff-years are included. Terms of
reference for the PCMU, the Program Co-ordinator and the
Financial Analyst were agreed on during negotiations.
Computing equipment and two vehicles are included for the
PCMU. In addition, support for formulation and monitoring
of housing programs would be provided to MCNH through
advisers (eight consultant staff-years) attached to the
Technical Services Housing Department. Their terms of
reference were agreed on during negotiations. Two vehicles
would also be provided.
(b)  Project ImplemPutation and Coordination capacities at the
local authority level. Sixteen consultant staff-years (four
per project city) are included to provide an experienced
engineer for each city. The primary objective of the
technical assistance would be to support the Works and/or
Community Services Departments with project coordination, as
well as to assist the two Departments in other technical
areas as required. Terms of reference for the consultants
were agreed on at negotiations. Four vehicles (one per
city) would be provided under the project.
Urban Transport and Traffic Management
2.20      This component would promote the development and implementation
of appropriate urban transport policies; strengthen government (central and
local) capacities to prepare, appraise and execute sound urban transport
projects; promote and strengthen road safety training and enforcement; and
finance investments that will improve urban public transport services and
reduce accident rates. The project would support:
(a)  Establishment of the Urban Transport Unit (LTU) of the
MLGTP. This includes the provision of: (i) a full-time
transportation consultant to serve as head of the UTU
(36 staff-months), (ii) full-time transport economist
(36 staff-months); (iii) a full-time technician/data analyst
(36 staff-months); (iv) technical assistance for planning
activities of the transport unit (12 staff-months); and (v)
technical assistance (7.5 staff-months) to carry out a study
of urban transport. Terms of reference for the UTU, the
transportation planning consultant and the study of urban
transport were agreed on at negotiations. One vehicle would
be provided for the unit.
(b) A Comprehensive Program of Actions to Improve Road Safety.
This includes the provision of: (i) equipment, two large
pick-up vehicles, technical assistance and training to
assist the Zimbabwe Traffic Safety Board (ZTSB) to expand
its driver training and road safety program; (ii) equipment
and technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport (MT)



- 15 -
to modernize and improve its driver licensing, vehicle
registration and road accident recording and information
handling systems; and (iii) equipment to Harare and Bulawayo
City Councils to assist with data collection and handling.
(c) Financing Public Transport Improvement Schemes. This would
involve the construction of a central bus station and
"ancillary' terminus/stop, as well as traffic management
measures to improve bus access to the above terminals.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
3.01      The estimated total cost of the project including taxes and
duties is Z$117.3 million (US$112.5 million), of which US$30.2 million or
27% is foreign exchange (including physical and price contingencies).
Taxes and duties are estimated at Z$5.0 million (US$4.8 million). Total
project costs include land costs of Z$105,000 (US$101,000). Table III-1
presents a breakdown of the costs for the basic project components. Base
costs are in July 1984 prices and include design and supervision costs of
Z$4.0 million (US$3.8 million). Cost estimates are based on the assumption
that the project would be executed during the period 1984-1988. Cost
estimates are derived from preliminary engineering, which is complete for
all project sites (100% of costs of servicing urban land under the
project), with final engineering design complete for typical sections of
each of the project areas. Final engineering designs for all areas are
expected to be completed by negotiations (May 1984). Physical
contingencies for the project are based on an allowance of 10X for civil
works and building construction components. A physical contingencies
allowance of 15% is made for civil works under the transport component.
The proposed loan would provide for about 60 staff-years of technical
assistance. Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after
October 1, 1983 on civil works (including design), consultants' services
and technical assistance, and the establishment costs of ZAAT is to be
provided up to an aggregate total of US$1.3 million.
3.02      Price contingencies on imported costs of vehicles, material,
equipment and internationally recruited staff and consultants have been
included at annual rates of 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985 and 9% in 1986/88. In
the case of civil works, a local price contingency of 15% in 1984, 14% in
1985 and 13. per year thereafter has been used. These rates reflect
inflationary trends in the overall construction costs in 1982/83. Price
increases in the construction sector are expected to be higher than those
for the general level of prices during the project period. For all other
local costs, price contingencies have been included at the rate of 13Z in
1984/85 and 12% per year thereafter. The total price contingencies amount
to about 28% of base costs excluding the housing finance component.



- 16 -
ZIMEABWE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TA8Le III-I:  SUHMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local    Foreign    7otal    Local    ForeIgn    Total   As Z of   Z of Total
Z5'0O0                       USS'000             Total     Base Coat
1. Site Development 4 Servicing
Land Acquisltion                      105          0      105      101           0      101        0          .1
Onsite Infrastructure
Cadastral Survey                      628          0      628      603           0      603        0           .6
Roads & Storm Water Drainage        4.839      2.836    7,675    4,645       2,723    7,368       40         7.8
Water Supply                        3,217        314    3,532    3,089         302    3,390       10          3.6
Sewerage                           4,727         462    5,189    4,538         443    4,981       10         5.2
Electricity                        4,373         679    5,052    4.198        651    4,850        15         5.1
Street Lighting                       624         97      721      599         93       692       15          .7
Offalte Infrastructure
loads                               1,036        607    1,643      995         583    1,578       40          1.7
Water                               3,250        317    3.567    3,120         305    3,425       10          3.6
Sewerage                            1.425        139    1,564    1,368         134    1,501       10          1.6
Electricity                         1,510        234    1,745    1,450         225    1,675       15          1.8
Comunity Facilities
Primry Schools                     2,758         269    3,028    2,648         259    2,906       10         3.1
Clinics                               925         90    1,015      888          87      974       10          1.0
AdministratLve Buildlngs            1,818        178    1,995    1.745         170    1,916       10         2.0
Market, Bus Terminal                  392        230      622      377         221      597       40           .6
Design and Supervision              2,762          0    2 762    2,652           0    2 652        0         2.8
Sub-Total                       34, 390      6.454   40 844   33 014      6,195                           41.3
2. Transport
Civil Works                          829         313    1,142      796        300    1,096        30         1.2
Vehicles and Equipment                  0        842      842        0        808       808      100          .9
Technical Assistance and Training    166         599      765      159        575       735       80          .8
Deslgn and Supervision                 69          0       69       67          0        67        0          .1
Sub-total                        1,065      T,754    2,819    1,022       1,684    2,706                   2.9
3. In titutional Development
Training Cousultancy                    0      2,053    2,053        0       1,971    1,971      100         2.1
Equip ment                             41        337      379       40        324       364       90          .4
Vbhicles                                0        277      277        0         266      266      100          .3
Technical Assistance                 330       2,679    3,009      317      2,572    2,889        90         3.0
ZMIT Operational Expene               151         59      210      145          56      201       30          .2
Sub-Total                          522       5.405    5,927      502      5,189    5.690                   6.0
4. R ouing Finance
geusing Construction Loans        34,440      14.760   49,200   33,062      14,170   47,232       30        49.8
Sub-Total                       34.440      14.760   49,200   33,062     14,170   47,232                  49.8
Total Ue   Costs (July 1984 prices)      70,417     28,372   98,790   67,601      27,238   94.838        0        100.0
Physical Contingencies                    3,563        692    4.256    3,421         665    4,085       16
Price Contingencles                      11,911      2,239   14,150   11,434       2,150   13,584       16
Total Project Costs                      85,891     31,304  117,195   82,456      30,052  112,507       27
Front-end Fee                                          111      111        0         107      107
TOTAL REQUIRED FIIUICING                 85,891     31,415  117,306   82,456      30,158  112,614
NMTt: (1) Bank loan aassud as USS43 million.
(2)  Pbysical Coutingencies are about 8S of Base Costs (excludLng Housing FLnuance Component).
(3) Price Contingencies are 28i of Bae Cost. (excluding Housing Finance Component).
(4) Totals may not add due to roundiLg.



- 17 -
B. Financing Plan
3.03      The proposed IBRD loan of US$43 million (Z$44.8 million) would
finance about 38% of total project costs. The loan would cover 100Z of
estimated foreign exchange costs (US$16.0 million, excluding the housing
finance component) and about 55% of local costs. Local cost financing is
recommended to enable the Bank to make a significant contribution to the
development of sound investment strategies in the urban sector.
3.04      In addition to the Bank loan, CDC co-financing of about US$9.6
million (8.5Z of project costs) is anticipated together with US$37.6
million (33% of project costs) from the building societies. Government
funds would provide for US$22.4 million (20% of project costs). Thus local
financing from government and private sector (building society) sources
would total US$60.0 million or 53.3% of total project costs.
3.05      The financing plan is summarized in Table III-2 below:
Table 111-2: SUMMARY FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(Z$ million)
Total         Building /a
Component                     Cost    CDC   Societies   Government   Bank
Site Development & Servicing 57.4      -          -         22.6        34.8
Transport                      3.4      -         -           0.7        2.7
Institutional Development      7.2     -          -           -          7.2
Housing Finance               49.2    10.0       39.2         -          -
Front End Fee                  0.1      -         -           -          0.1
TOTAL                   Z$ 117.3    10.0       39.2       22.3        44.8
US$ 112.6     9.6       37.6       22.4        43.0
a! CABS Z$20 million
BEVERLY Z$19.2 million
3.06      Financing under this plan would require the following annual
allocations by each institution:
Table III-3: ANNUAL ALLOCAIION BY FUNDING SOURCE
(Z$ KillionfCalendar Year)
1984    1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    TOTAL
IBRD                    -      1.9   15.6    16.9      8.8      1.6     44.8
CDC                     -      0.5    2.0      3.9     3.6      -       10.0
Building Societies      -      2.0    7.9    15.7    13.6       -       39.2
Government              2.7   10.4    8.1      2.1     -        -       23.3
TOTAL                 2.7   14.8   33.6    38.6    26.0       1.6    117.3
==_  _      mxm    Zm      =        Z



- 18 -
C. Flow of Funds and Onlending Arrangements
3.07      The Government of Zimbabwe will make the proceeds of the IBRD
loan and its own contribution available to the National Housing Fund
(MCNH), General Development Loan Fund (MLGTP), and MT (see Chart III-I,
flow of funds) as follows: (i) funds for general infrastructure would be
onlent to the local authorities through the National Housing Fund; (ii)
funds for community facilities, technical assistance, transportation
improvements, and ZAAT's estaDlishment costs, would be onlent to the local
authorities and ZAAT through the General Development Loan Fund (MLGTP); and
(iii) funds for Technical Assistance (consultancy), equipment and vehicles,
and training would be passed on to the respective implementing agencies
(i.e., MCNH, MLGTP, MT, ZTSB) as budgetary allocations. For details of
onlending amounts see Annex 3, Table 3.
3.08      The terms and conditions of funds to be onlent to the local
authorities (Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare, Masvingo) and ZAAT would be
according to prevailing lending terms for the National Housing Fund and the
General Development Fund. The lending rates for these two Funds are set by
the Treasury based on an average cost of government borrowings. The rate
is reviewed periodically and as such is variable for all loans extended by
the Funds. The current rate is 9.75%. Funds onlent by the National
Housing Fund would be for 30 years at the prevailing lending rate. Loans
to be made by the General Development Fund would be for 20 years at the
prevailing rate. (See Annex 3 for details of onlending and budgetary
allocations.)
3.09      House loans to project beneficiaries would be provided by the
building societies. The terms of the loans would be based on the
prevailing market rate of interest, which is currently 12.5% (variable),
with a grace period of six to nine months and a maturity of 25 years. This
rate would be adjusted periodically in line with the prevailing financial
and economic conditions as has always been the practice in Zimbabwe.
3.10      The current average cost of borrowing to the building societies
is about 9.5% as compared to the onlending rate of 12.5% for low-income
families. The 3% spread is sufficient to cover administrative and overhead
costs, risk and allow a net profit in real terms. The building societies
have been in operation for over 20 years, during which time they have been
a central feature of the housing industry in Zimbabwe with proven records
of sound financial management and profitability. The 12.5% rate is the
lower tier of a two-tier residential mortgage interest rate structure. The
upper tier (for loans above Z$12,000) is currently 13.25%. Mortgages for
commercial properties are presently set at 14.75% yielding an average
interest rate estimated at 13.5% to 14Z. It should be noted that the
building society lending rate has shifted over the last four years from
7.25%. During the same period deposit rates increased from the 3.5% to
6.25% range. This generally is in line with inflation which has averaged



- 19 -
Quit 1:E-1:  EIN W 11
|Govt. ox   11                                 1Gvt. Of Z       lbabwe
Ccstruction and               T1  cal                                                                   un
Iilnlsyng                 & of   Planmlng
(Naoal Hiig                  (Gen. Dev. ad)
Ebnd)                                                Tw 9o Year        Te xcal Assls
____                                                                 ad Tr                    * absirig
* Te Pical Assistance         Ecpnses                I                     Ians
* Tacbidt-Al Assistanae      * ETAPOBO and Vebicles                         AF4dpn*F int and Vedcles
*bSI                     *EiLma  dI
* T     tD Cides f                     I                                     G t                       Poject
Tnfrtrnxture               * TLa   X cities forn                                 Icares
(i,)  Caiity Facilities
(ii) Technical Assistance
(iii) Transport Iarouements
* Loan tD AAiT for
l tablistm~t Costs
*tzrtr'ictme               *                                                           Ie  *  nft r  *  lfrfltn
and Cmmity Facilities        and Ciummity Facilities       and Coumuty Facities       and Commity Facilities
* Bu Station                 * Edehical A                                               * Tatical Assistanoe
* Eqitpmnt



- 20 -
about 13% over the last few years. As indicated above, the mortgage
lending rate is variable in response to developments in the financial
markets and general economic conditions. The market mortgage rate of 12.5%
for low-income beneficiaries under the proposed project represents an
increase of 3Z over the current rate of about 9.5% under existing public
sector housing programs.
Project Cash Flows
3.11      The cash flow for the project is presented in Annex 3.  By 1989,
upon completion of the project, cumulative inflows for the project would be
Z$12.1 million (US$11.6). The cumulative net surplus by 1993 will be
Z$13.1 million (US$12.6).
IV. IMPIEHENIAIION
4.01      Particular importance has been given to seeking relatively simple
implementation arrangements as this is a first urban project in Zimbabwe,
and because of the complexity of urban programs of this type in general.
New procedures have been kept to a minimum, changes in existing efficient
and sound organizational arrangements have been avoided, and the system in
place has been used to the maximum extent. Therefore, responsibilities for
project execution have been placed in the most suitable existing government
Institutions, with few changes in procedures or organization required.
A. Overview of Institutional          Bengents
4.02      The local authorities will assume the primary role in project
execution and will have responsibility for planning, designing and
constructing all civil works and community facilities, which comprise the
major part of the investment funded through Bank assistance. Financing to
the local authorities for these components will flow through the National
Housing Fund and the General Development Fund (para. 3.08). In line with
restructuring institutional responsibilities under the project according to
areas of greatest capacity and expertise, the local authorities will no
longer offer financing for plot purchases and house construction.   This
will be provided and managed by the building societies, but monitored by
MCNH and the PCHU, and executed in close cooperation with the local
authorities, particularly in the area of allocation procedures. Management
and coordination of implementation of the local authority training program
and the transportation component will be the responsibility of MLGTP. The
small business support and income-generation component will be implemented
by MCNH.
4.03      While each of the executing entities will monitor their
operations and prepare quarterly summaries of progress, overall monitoring
of progress (and assistance where needed) will be provided by the PCMU,
assisted by MCNH on the housing component. Given the number of local
authorities involved, and the importance of ensuring inter-ministerial
coordination, the monitoring responsibilities of the PCM4U will be
facilitated through the establishment of a steering committee on whizh at



- 21 -
least one representative from each of the implementing agencies and the
Program Coordinator will serve in order to maintain an oversight on project
implementation. The PCNU, which is being established in NIGTP under the
project (para. 2.19), in addition to more general support functions, will
also therefore ensure that project implementation is in accordance with the
Loan Agreement; consolidate the quarterly reports of the executing agencies
and submit them to the Bank; and prepare all disbursement applications to
the Bank.
B. Local Authorities
4.04      The system of Local Government in Zimbabwe includes three types
of urban local authorities-municipal councils, town councils and local
boards, which have varying degrees of responsibility. These various local
authorities are administered under the Urban Councils Act.5/
4.05      There are a total of four town councils, one local board and
eleven municipal councils in Zimbabwe each having a broad range of powers
and responsibilities. The municipal councils provide basic services such
as water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal, and emergency
services such as ambulances and fire brigades. They construct and maintain
public buildings and infrastructure such as roads and bridges and maintain
parks and other public amenities. In addition, municipal status involves
ownership of state land within the council area and flll responsibility for
town planning (and the costs thereof), for maintenance and construction of
national roads within the council area and for costs of housing development
services provided by the Ministry.
4.06      The four locaL authorities participating in the project all have
municipal status. As indicated in their organizational structures (see
Annex 4, Charts A to D), the various functions of the towns are carried out
through departments, of which the Engineers (or Works), Treasurers, and
Community Services (including Housing) play a primary role in the design,
preparation and implementation of the project. t/ Current capacities for
project preparation and execution were evaluated and are considered fully
adequate. Therefore no changes to the system in place are proposed
(following government assurances that such capacities would be main-
tained). In order to ensure coordination of implementation and monitoring
of progress, each local authority will establish a working committee with
at least one representative from each of the above three (four in Bulawayo)
departments serving on the committee, and will designate one of the members
as Project Coordinator.
5/ The Urban Councils Act, Chapter 214, as amended on August 1, 1980.
6/ In Bulawayo the Department of Building and Amenities would also be
actively involved.



- 22 -
With continued turnover in professional staff expected in the municipal
councils, each of the project towns will appoint, on fixed term contract, a
consultant (a civil engineer unless otherwise agreed on) to serve as
advisor to the Project Coordinator and to assist with technical as well as
monitoring and quarterly report writing aspects of project implementation.
They will take up their posts by December 31, 1984, for the duration of
project implementation (estimated at four staff-years per city), and will
also provide technical assistance to the city engineers (or where necessary
community services) departments of the project towns, subject to meeting
their project-related obligations (para. 2.19).
4.07      The community services departments will assume responsibility for
administering and implementing the project on completion of civil works.
This will include beneficiary selection and plot allocation, in conjunction
with the building societies (para. 4.14), assistance to the beneficiaries
with building their housing, and inspection (together with the Department
of Works, Engineering, or Building and Amenities) of construction to ensure
that appropriate standards are being met. The Glen View Site and Service
Project (see footnote 4) resulted in the introduction of an organizational
model within the Harare City Council, Department of Community Services, for
administering an owner-managed house construction program that has proven
particularly effective (Annex 4, Chart E indicates typical staffing
requirements for a 4,150 plot project). The comunity services departments
in each of the project towns are preparing proposals for managing the
self-build process, based on the Glen View experience, but scaled according
to the size of the program in the particular city. The current practice of
recovering all costs, including administration, through plot
(supplementary) charges (paras. 5.24 to 5.28) will ensure that the marginal
costs of any additional staffing requirements will be recovered through
increased plot sales. Staffing proposals will be completed and approved by
the Councils before December 31, 1984, and submitted to the Bank for its
approval.
C. Central Government
4.08      At the central level, primary project related responsibilities
will be assumed by MLGTP and MCNH.
The Ministry of Local Government and Town Planning
4.09      The Ministry of Local Government and Town Planning is responsible
for all major programs (other than housing) affecting local government
administration throughout Zimbabwe. The M1LGTP has a number of different
departments, each headed by either a director (in the case of technical
departments) or a deputy secretary. The three departments within the
Ministry with project-related responsibilities are Local Government
Promotion and Training, Personnel Administration and Finance, and Physical
Planning, and respectively they will manage execution of the Local
Authority Training, Program Coordination and Monitoring, and Urban
Transport components of the project as follows:
(a) Local Authority Training: The Department of Promotion and
Training will set policy, coordinate implementation, monitor



- 23 -
progress and prepare quarterly reports on the Local
Authority Training component. The training team (para.
2.17), which comprises a training coordinator (buildings),
an instructor (civil engineering), three instructors
(mechanical), two instructors (housing), and two instructors
(accounts), will be led by the training coordinator who will
be responsible to the deputy secretary (training), and 'vho
will liaise with the core team advising the deputy secretary
(see Annex 4, Chart F, for the organization of the Training
Department in MLGTP). An action program for setting up and
implementing the local authority training component was
reviewed and agreed on during negotiations. Since the
number of staff requiring training in the majority of towns
is small, it is proposed to concentrate OJT in Harare,
except for the two accounts instructors who will be based in
Bulawayo (the Harare City Treasurer has in place a
five-person training team led by a chief accountant). Staff
from other local authorities will come to Harare (and
Bulawayo for training in accounts) for OJT, though
instructors may conduct OJT in other centers as necessary.
Both Harare and Bulawayo have existing facilities that will
be made available for the OJT program. The draft schedule
of courses is summarized in Annex 4, Schedule I. The
training program will integrate with and augment existing
training activities in place in Harare and Bulawayo. A list
of training aids and equipment to be provided under the
project is in Annex 4, Schedule 2. The establishment of a
framework that will support the continuation of suitable
in-service training (para. 2.14), and an assessment of what
the scope and scale of this training will need to be
(following completion of the project) will be the
responsibility of the training coordinator. The quarterly
progress reports will reflect progress with the training
component, and an annual review will be held to develop
suitable arrangements for a continuing OJT program in the
context of the new training institutions and procedures that
are under preparation;
(b)  Program Coordination and Monitoring:  The PCMU will be
headed by the Program Coordinator, who will be responsible
to the Deputy Secretary, Administration and Finance.
Staffing of the PCMU is described in para. 2.19. The
Ministry will also designate two suitably qualified staff
members from within the Department of Administration and
Finance to serve, as part of their duties, in the PCMU as
counterparts to the Program Coordinator and the Financial
Analyst. In addition the three locally recruited staff of
the PCMU will be qualified professionals in such areas as
data management, social survey work, economics and
accounting. The PCMU will:
(i)    monitor progress and ensure that each of the local
authorities-the UTU (including the contributions of



- 24 -
ZTSB and MT); the Promotion and Training Department
of MLGTP; MCNH and ZAAT-prepare quarterly reports
within four weeks of the end of each quarter. The
PCMU will synthesize these into a consolidated
quarterly report that will be forwarded to the Bank
within eight weeks of the end of each quarter;
(ii)   strengthen capabilities for managing urban
developm-nt programs through the introduction of an
improved information management system; assistance
with coordinating the local authority development
program; and identifying needs and coordinating
programs of technical assistance to the local
authorities; and
(iii)  prepare a Project Completion Report which would be
sent to the Bank within six months of the close of
disbursements.
The Program Coordinator and the Financial Analyst of the
PCMU will be appointed before December 31, 1984. The PCMU
will also be responsible for preparing and submitting to the
Bank, through the Ministry of Finance, all disbursement
applications; and
(c) Urban Transport: The UTU, to be established within the
Department of Physical Planning (para. 2.20), would
coordinate both implementation of and quarterly progress
reports (which it would submit to the PCMU) on all aspects
of the transportation component under the project. This
would include ensuring timely inputs from the ZTSB, the MT
and the Harare City Council for inclusion in the quarterly
reports, as well as providing them technical assistance as
needed (para. 2.20). The unit would be established before
December 31, 1984.
The Ministry of Construction and National Housing
4.10      The Ministry of Construction and National Housing was recently
established. It comprises the fusion of two formerly separate
ministries--the Ministry of National Housing, and the Ministry of
Construction (of which the Ministry of National Housing was a line ministry
under the project). While internal organizational changes can be expected
over time, it is likely that this will evolve slowly, and that little
structural change within each of the previously separate ministries has
occurred.
4.11      The functions of the former Ministry of National Housing
included: (i) setting national housing policies; (ii) ensuring that these
policies were being implemented by the local authorities; (iii) con-
trolling, through the National Housing Fund (paras. 5.04 to 5.07), the flow
of finances to the local authorities for housing development; (iv) advising
the Minister on proposals for low-cost housing development; (v) undertaking
research to provide a basis for sound housing policies and for assistance



- 25 -
in housing and infrastructure layout design and construction; and (vi)
undertaking major low-cost housing projects directly, on behalf of local
authorities where this is deemed necessary.
4.12      During project preparation, in addition to new policy initiatives
(paras. 1.15-1.19 and 2.02-2.03), the Ministry together with MLGTP,
reviewed and approved all housing layout and house-type designs for the
project, as prepared by the local authorities. Progress with detailed
engineering design is summarized in para. 3.01. House construction, to be
managed by the beneficiary, will be based on a policy of progessive
development and will be phased according to ability to pay, with the
beneficiary required to complete at least one room and ablution facility in
order to occupy the plot. This initial phase will be undertaken with a
view to completing tha minimum of four rooms over time according to agreed
affordability criteria (para. 4.14). During project implementation, the
housing departments of MCNH will monitor all aspects of the housing
component including preparation by the local authorities of the housing
section of the quarterly progress reports, and will provide technical
assistance as needed.
4.13      Consultants (initially a civil engineer and a quantity surveyor)
will be provided under the project (para. 2.19), who over and above
technical assistance to the Technical Services (Housing) Department of the
Ministry, will have primary responsibility in the Ministry for assisting
with implementation of the housing component. They will be appointed not
later than December 31, 1984.
D.  Building Societies
4.14      As agreed in principle during appraisal, the building societies,
which have well-established procedures for making loans, will provide
mortgage loans to project beneficiaries. The loans would be sufficient to
cover the purchase price of the plot (generally averaging Z$600.00) plus
the cost of constructing a minimum shelter of one room and ablution
facility. Allocation procedures, which will be in accordance with current
practices by the project towns (which are satisfactory to the Bank), will
be based on local authority waiting lists. There will be an upper monthly
income limit of Z$400 and allocations will follow the current waiting lists
(revised from time-to-time in line with changes in incomes and prices, and
subject to Bank review and confirmation). In 1984 incomes, 70% of
allocations will be for beneficiaries with incomes below Z$200 per month.
No minimum income limit would be set, but affordability in each case would
be evaluated in terms of income, size of unit to be built (one room plus
ablution is considered a minimum, initial provision to permit plot
occupation and to determine affordability for purposes of plot and loan
allocation), amount of personal savings to be utilized, and specific
information on or evidence of mode of construction to be employed (informal
contractors, and payment in kind considerably reduce construction costs).
Income from renting of rooms will also be taken into account where
appropriate.  Applicants satisfying the above criteria who require mortgage
loans will receive such allocations subject to approval by the building
society. Based on considerations of the above, the amount of the loan will
be sized according to about 25% of income being spent on housing related
expenditures. The terms of the loan would be 25 years with a variable
interest rate set at the prevailing lower tier rate (currently 12.5%) of
the building societies.



- 26 -
4.15      Details of allocation procedures and the role of the building
societies in project implementation, as well as legal conditions and costs
of the building society loans to the beneficiaries (summarized in Annex 5)
were reviewed during negotiations and will be finalized by Government, CDC,
and the building societies. This may include the establishment of a
committee (on which the PCMU would be represented by the Program
Coordinator) to review building society performance and the allocation of
mortgage loans. The final agreement between Government and CDC will be
reviewed by the Bank and signature of the agreement will be a condition of
effectiveness. The criteria to be used by the building societies for the
allocation of mortgage loans will be consistent with those agreed on by
Government and the Bank for the allocation of plots (para. 7.19(e)).
E. Procurement
4.16      Infrastructure works totalling about Z$29.2 million (US$28.0
million including physical and price contingencies), or 25% of total
project cost, will be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. While contracts for civil works will be
bulked together in bidding packages to the maximum extent possible, the
relatively small size (the majority of the contracts do not exceed Z$1
million), scattered locations and staging of contracts make it unlikely
that foreign firms will be attracted. However a number of established
foreign contractors in Zimbabwe should be interested in bidding. There
will be prequalification of firms so that the Government can assess the
firms' experience, financial standing and performance on similar
construction works in Zimbabwe.
4.17      Contracts for construction of community facilities totalling
Z$11.3 million (US$10.8 million) will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures (a copy is with the Legal Department).
These were reviewed at appraisal and are satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign
bidders may participate. Efforts to attract small contractors from project
towns will be made by limiting contract size to be within their range.
4.18      Materials, equipment and labor for house construction totalling
Z$49.2 million (US$47.2 million) 42% of project costs (all of which is
financed by CDC and the building societies), will be procured directly by
individual households from local suppliers.
4.19      Construction of certain infrastructure works by force account in
the project towns will constitute about Z$18.4 million (US$12.7 million) or
16% of project costs. This is considered preferable to competitive bidding
because of the high level of efficiency achieved by the cities for this
type of work, which they have traditionally executed through force account.
4.20      Equipment and vehicles totalling Z$1.7 million (US$1.6 million)
or 1.4% of project costs would be grouped wherever possible into lots of at
least US$50,000 and would be procured through ICB. Miscellaneous items of
equipment, materials, vehicles, spare parts and supplies in lots of less
than US$50,000 may be procured in accordance with Government's standard
procedures which were reviewed at appraisal and are satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 27 -
4.21      The remaining Z$7.5 million (US$7.2 million) or 6.4% of project
costs representing technical assistance and training will be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Incremental operating expenses (including
staff salaries) would be paid directly under government budgets. Contracts
for works exceeding US$250,000 and for goods exceeding US$150,000 will
require prior Bank review of bidding documentation and contract awards.
For all other contracts, documentation will be submitted to the Bank for
post award review.
Table IV-1:  pROCUREHENT AR]R&MGENUM  a/
(US$ million)
b/     Not
Project Element                ICB   LCB   OTHER    Applicable   Total Cost
Civil Works                   28.0  10.8    17.7          -           56.5
(16.9) (6.6)  (10.7)         -         (34.2)
Technical Assistance           -     -        6.9         -            6.9
_      (6.9)        -           (6.9)
Equipment and Vehicles         -     1.6      -           -            1.6
=    (1.6)    -            -           (1.6)
ZAAT Establishment Costs       -     -        0.2         -            0.2
(0.2)        -           (0.2)
House Construction Loans       -     -       47.2         -           47.2
Front End Fee                  -     -        -           0.1          0.1
u(0.1)      (0.1)
TOTAL COST                  28.0  12.4    72.0          0.1        112.5
(16.9) (8.2)  (17.8)        (0.1)      (43.0)
a/  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
b/  Force account, direct purchase and hiring of consultants.
F. Disbursements
4.22      Disbursements of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be made on
the following basis: (i) 60X of expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100% of
foreign and 80% of local costs for technical assistance; (iii) 100% of
foreign expenditure, and 100% of local expenditure ex factory or 80% of
local costs for equipment and vehicles; and (iv) 80% of operational
expenses for ZAAT.
4.23      Disbursements would be made against contracts for categories
(i) civil works; (ii) technical assistance; (iii) equipment and vehicles;
and against statement of expenditures for category (iv) ZAAT's operational
expenses. The supporting documents for statement of expenditures will be
fully maintained by the executing agency and made available for review by
the Bank's supervision mission. A schedule of estimated disbursement of
the Bank loan is presented in Table IV-2.



- 28 -
4.24      The proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over a
period of five years.  Consequently, the resulting disbursement profile as
presented in Table IV-2 varies from the typical urban projects historical
disbursement profile in the Eastern Africa Region. The disbursement
profile is based on expected annual project expenditures lagged by 12
months to allow for lead time necessary for processing of withdrawal
applications by the Government.
4.25      The principal reason for departure from the standard profile for
urban projects is that under the project the Bank loan would not be
financing the housing component (i.e., loans for house construction). The
housing construction process has been a major determinant extending the
typical urban project disbursement profile.
Table IV-2: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSE EFFS
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal                                                  % Cumulative
Year      Quarter    Date      Disbursed   Cumulative       Disbursed
1985         4     June 30        0.4         0.4              0.9
1986         1     Sept. 30       0.3         0.7              1.6
2     Dec. 31        1.1         1.8 a/           4.2
3     March 31       1.3         3.1              7.2
4     June 30        4.3         7.4             17.2
1987         1     Sept. 30       4.7         12.1            28.1
2     Dec. 31        4.7        16.8             39.1
3     March 31       4.2        21.0             48.8
4     June 30        4.2        25.2             58.6
1988         1     Sept. 30       3.9        29.1             67.7
2     Dec. 31        3.9        33.0             76.7
3     March 31       2.6        35.6             82.8
4     June 30        2.3        37.9             88.2
1989         1      Sept. 30      1.9         39.8            92.5
2     Dec. 31        1.6        41.4             96.3
3     March 31       0.5        41.9             97.5
4     June 30        0.5        42.4             98.6
1990         1     Sept. 30       0.4        42.8             99.5
2     Dec. 31        0.2        43.0            100.0
a/ Including retroactive financing.
G. Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements
4.26      All four local authorities (Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and
Masvingo) will separately identify project-related transactions within
their existing accounting and financial reporting system. Currently, the
local authorities' accounts are audited by independent private auditing
firms. Auditing firms in Zimbabwe are independent, of international
standards, and currently have the capacity to cope with the auditing load.



- 29 -
4.27      Local authorities will submit their audited accounts to the Bank
within nine months of the close of their fiscal year. This arrangement was
confirmed during negotiations.
4.28      Separate accounts for project-related expenditures would also be
maintained by MLGTP, MT, ZTSB, MCNH, and ZAAT. A consolidated project
account (income and expenditures by component) would be maintained by the
PCMU within MLGTP and would be audited and submitted to the Bank within
nine months of the close of MLGTP's fiscal year. This arrangement was
confirmed during negotiations.
H. I1plementation Scbedule
4.29      Annex 3, Table I shows the expected distribution of base costs
over time by type of expenditure. The bulk of the infrastructure
construction is planned for 1985, 1986 and 1987. Expenditures in 1984 will
be very small and limited mainly to studies and technical assistance.
Excluding the housing component (not financed through Bank assistance), the
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
I. Project Supervision
4.30      Bank supervision of the project will require 120 staff-weeks over
the period of project implementation. This level of effort is justified
for the following reasons: (i) this is a first Bank lending operation in
the urban sector in Zimbabwe; (ii) to date the Bank has been able to assist
in the formulation of a wide range of new policies (during a critical
period of transition) through its continuing dialogue with Government. It
is anticipated that further such support will be necessary; and (iii) the
importance of program continuity in order to achieve and sustain policy
objectives requires continued Bank assistance in developing investment
proposals for donor financing.
4.31      In addition, staff of the PHN Department will assist in the
supervision of the health sub-component as part of the processing and
implementation of the proposed family health project.
V. FIMNCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Municipal Fimce
inauncing of Municipalities
5.01      Government financial assistance to local authorities in Zimbabwe
is quite limited. There is no system of revenue sharing, with only modest
grants for general administrative purposes which are being gradually phased
out. There are no subsidies for local public services.
5.02      Governmpnt loans are made to local authorities for capital
projects, mainly low-income housing and related infrastructure including
general infrastructure works such as water and sewerage schemes. Funds are
provided on a project-by-project basis, with the Governmpnt appraising the
projects financed. The Central Government through the MLGTP exercises a
number of financial controls over local authorities including approval of
budgets and all borrowing powers. All borrowings by local authorities,



- 30 -
whether from the Government or from other external sources, must be
approved by the Government through the Ministry of Finance, Economic
Planning and Development (MFEPD). Only Harare and Bulawayo have been
permitted to borrow in the money market, which they generally preferred to
do rather than borrow from the Government because interest rates were
better.7/ Recently, the Government has asserted more stringent controls
over local borrowings and reduced financial resources available to local
authorities, consistent with its policies of centralizing control of
borrowing and allocating funds to priority areas. Consequently, all
external borrowing for low-income housing must now be financed through
government loans, and Harare and Bulawayo are no longer permitted to borrow
from external sources for this purpose (though they may do so for general
infrastructure purposes). Loans from internal sources (i.e., loans between
one special fund and another) within the same municipality, remain under
the control of the local authorities, so long as they comply with
government regulations.
5.03      Financial assistance to cities in the form of loans for general
infrastructure and for low cost housing, are controlled by MLGTP and MCNH
respectively, which also consolidate the municipalities' requests for loan
funds and serve as advocates for the municipalities in the Central Govern-
ment's budget and planning process. Requests for loans for general infra-
structure investment are channelled through MLGTP and are approved in the
yearly budget process of the Central Government and, in the case of low-
cost housing, are administered by the National Housing Fund (formerly the
Local Government Areas Building Fund).
National Housing Fbnd
5.04      The National Housing Fund operates under MCNH and the main
sources of capital for the Fund are from Government appropriations,
borrowings from other institutions such as building societies and insurance
companies.
5.05      The Fund is operated on a non-profit-making basis.  Therefore, it
seeks only to recover interest and capital repayments on its borrowings.
The administrative costs, estimated at Z$51,000 per annum, are included in
the Ministry's overall administrative budget and are not apportioned as
costs chargeable to the Fund.
5.06      The current level of interest rates charged on advances from the
Fund is 9.75X per annum. The Fund's lending rate is a floating rate and
supposed to equal the total cost of borrowings of the Fund. This rate,
therefore, fluctuates with the cost of borrowings. Although, in theory,
the lending rate must equal the cost of borrowing (pooled rate), the Fund's
lending rate cannot be adjusted without Treasury approval. In practice,
the Fund has not passed on increases in its cost of borrowing because
building society loans which are subject to floating interest rates were
not taken into account by the Treasury in determining the Fund's overall
cost of borrowing. Consequently, as of 1981 the Fund has ceased to borrow
7/ In recent years this has shifted, with Government cost of borrowing and
lending terms lower than market. Nevertheless, cities continue to
borrow in the market to the extent Government permits this.



- 31 -
from the building societies. Therefore, at present, Government loans are
the only source of capital for the Fund. As of June 30, 1983, the Fund had
a deficit of Z$2.0 million. Treasury has agreed to compensate the Fund for
this loss. However, to date no monies have been received from Treasury
against Fund losses. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that for all loans to be made under the project, the National
Housing Fund's lending rate would not be less than its cost of borrowings.
General Development Loan Fund
5.07      The General Development Loan Fund is administered by MLGTP.  The
m.ain source of these funds is government budgetary allocations. Requests
for loans from the local authorities are evaluated and included in MLGTP's
budget request.
5.08      Loans are made by the Fund over a period of 20-30 years with
semi-annual repayments of principal and interest. The interest is tied to
cost of total government borrowings.  The rate is therefore a floating rate
and is adjusted periodically by the Treasury. The current rate is 9.75%.
Municipal Budgets
5.09      Municipalities in Zimbabwe produce detailed budget estimates and
accounts and maintain strict control over expenditure. Their accounting
system is based on the income and expenditure method used by local govern-
ments in UK. Expenditure is accrued on both revenue and capital accoutrt,
to the extent that creditors paid-up to three weeks following the end of
the fiscal year are recorded in that fiscal year. In respect of debtors,
all known income is accrued, including rates due but not billed; ane bad
and doubtful debts are written off annually. Each municipality is required
to prepare both revenue and capital budgets and a three-year capital plan,
annually.
5.10      Municipal revenue budgets are divided into separate accounts,
with expenditure and income of all types charged to a particular --ccount.
In general, each account is expected to be self-financing.
5.11      General administration expenses are funded out of two accounts;
the low density areas are financed out of rates accounts while the high
density areas are financed out of what is now called the housing account
(Local Government Areas (LGA) where sources are mainly rents dnd
supplementary charges collected in these areas. Both the rates account and
the various housing (LGA) accounts also receive the proceeds of certain
general municipal taxes collected in their areas including fees for
businesses and liquor licenses and for motor vehicles.
5.12      The separate financing for general administration purposes
between the rates accou-it and the housing (LGA) account, basically corres-
ponds to the division bttween high- and low-income areas carried over from



- 32 -
the past. This has had the effect that the areas with the greatest density
and lowest incomes are confined to the resources they can generate. How-
ever, progress is being made by the local authorities, albeit slowly, in
implementing the one city concept accounting system. The city of Harare
has recently achieved the separate identification of charges and is now In
a position to merge the accounts for the 1983-84 fina,.cial year. In some
cities pending the implementation of the one city concept accounting
system, surplus (if any) from the rate fund is being transfered to the
housing account to cover potential deficits.
5.13      Costs of social services in the high density areas are financed
by the Beer Account, which gets its revenues from the profits made by the
municipality on the manufacture and sale of beer.8/ Up to 50% of the
annual profits may be used to finance low income housing, on a revolving
fund basis, while the rest must go for social services in the current
year. Any use of these funds which does not directly conform to the
regulations must be approved by the MLGTP.
5.14      The largest portion of municipal revenues flows through accounts
established for the purpose of financing (and collecting income from) the
provision of basic services. Each city has separate electricity and water
accounts, and Harare has just established separate waste management and
sewerage accounts. These accounts are funded by tariffs and flat monthly
charges levied by the city council which are internded to cover the full
cost of the services and which are generally raised as necessary to keep
abreast of costs. In most cases, consumption is individually measured and
billed.
F_inancial Status of the Local Authorities
5.15      Zimbabwe's cities have well-developed public services and are in
sound financial condition. They produce detailed budgets and accounts and
maintain strict control over expenditures. The principle of cost recovery
is stringently applied to services that can be run commercially, such as
water supply, electricity and waste disposal, and tariffs are raised as
necessary to keep pace with costs. Revenue collections operate well and
the accounts do not show any substantial arrears.
5.16      A review of the income and expenditures of local authorities in-
cluded under the project (Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and Masvingo) indicates
that each of the four cities had a surplus in its annual operating activity
during the period 1979-83. Generally, growth in revenues Kas kept pace
with increasing expenditures enabling the local authorities to accumulate a
reasonable level of surplus balance in their funds from pz;vious years.  A
five-year trend analysis of income and expenditure including the level of
reserves held by each local authority is presented in Annex 5, Tables 1-4.
8/ Being eroded by increasing Central Government taxes on local authority
profits from the Beer Account.



- 33 -
5.17      Although, during the past five-year period there has been a net
financial surplus in the cities' overall accounts, both the rate and
housing (LGA) accounts have had deficits on an annual basis. Generally,
these deficits have been offset in subsequent years by increases in rates
and supplementary charges.9/ In addition, the cities have had to rely on
financial surplus from the7water, electricity, and liquor undert.aking
accounts to partially cover the deficits in the r ILe and the housing
accounts, at least on a temporary basis until r..Cs and rates ale
subsequently adjusted.
5.18      Consistent with Government policy of phasing out grant:s to local
authorities for social services such as health and education,
responsibility for primary schools has been recently passed on to the
cities. Since the level of Government grants for these services for the
past five years has ranged from around 1-3% of total annual revenues for
Harare and Bulawayo and 3-5% for Mutare and Masvingo, these cuts should not
have a significant impact on the cities' income. In the absence of such
grants, profits from liquor und:.rtaking would finance social servi:es.  In
all four cities during the past five years, financial surpluses from liquor
undertaking accounts have exceeded the level of expenditures for s;ocial
services. Consequently, liquor profits should be sufficient to f-inance
social services in the future. However, since in the past, a portion of
liquor profits were utilized to offset annual deficits in the h3.using
account, the availability of such surpluses in future to subsidize the
housing account is uncertain. The housing deficits occur mainlyv because of
delays in implementing increases in rates, rents and supplement ary charges
adequate to meet steadily rising expenditures, no doubt influerced by the
availability of the funds from other sources. Consistent with the
recommendations of the Sector Report the project has initiated a policy of
financing plot development only, on a full-cost recovery basis, with
responsibility for construction passed to private sector financting and the
eliminatic- of further provision of rental housing. Thus, in f:ime, the
rental housing will become a decreasingly significant proporti-an of
municipal housing activity.
5.19      Clearly, the future financial vIability of local aul:horities
would depend on their ability to expand their revenue base by increasing
rates and tariffs and identifying new sources of income. In the past, to a
large extent, increases in rates and tariffs have kept up -wit;i increasing
costs but this may become more difficult due to politi_al preusures.  The
1local authorities are acutely aware of this problem and are al:tempting to
come up with innovative measures to minimize the impact of thf! above
changes on rates and tarIffs. For instance, as the formation of the elec-
tricity authority would result in a loss of income for the lo. al authori-
ties, the cities are seeking to obtain government approval fox retaining a
portion of total revenues generated by electricity tariffs. local authori-
ties are also attempting to recover a higher percentage of inf rastructure
9/ Rates and supplementary charges have been increased by 10%-25Z per
annum since 1981.



- 34 -
costs throL gh plot sales prices. In summary, the introduction of financing
from the private sector for housing in related infrastructure, and changes
in existing cost recovery mechanisms as proposed under the project would
substantialLy improve the prospects of financial health of the cities in
the future.
B.. Project Impact on Local Authorities and Cost Recovery
Finuncial I uplicacions
5.20      Diring the project period loan proceeds from the World Bank and
Central Gove rnment would be made available to each of the four cities to
finance their respective project costs. The cities would bear the debt
burden (priTr cipal and interest) over a period of 30 years for housing in-
frastructure loans and 20 years for community facilities and technical
assistance l.-ans. Foreign exchange risk will be borne by the local
authorities. Projected income and expenditure statements, including the
project, are presented in Annex 5, Tables 5 through 8 for each of the
cities.
5.21     2'he projected income and expenditures show that the cities would
continue to have financial surpluses after meeting their debt service obli-
gations on atll outstanding loans as of June 1983 and including loans to be
taken under the proposed project. Annual revenues for each local authority
are estimate.l to increase by 20X in 1985 and 15% per annum thereafter. The
projected in:reases in revenue are based on the compound annual growth rate
of revenue f -r each local authority between 1979 and 1983, which has been
around 20% (19.3% in Mutare to 23.2% in Bulawayo). Analysis of the past
three years' revenue figures suggest that the decline in market value of
housing follcwing independence has not had an adverse impact on the local
authorities' income because the valuation role has not been revalued
downwards to reflect what is likely a temporary phenomenon. Recent
information suggests that property values are already on an upward swing.
By the end of the project implementation period the cities would have
recovered thrcugh plot sales about one-third of the housing infrastructure
investments made under the project. Since the cities would have a long-
term obligation for repayment of loans for housing infrastructure, this
short-term recovery of one-third of the investments would enable the cities
to establish a revolving fund from the proceeds of the plot sales. The
revolving fund would be used to finance additional housing infrastructure
and to meet debt service obligations under the project. During
negotiations ass-rances were obtained that Government would cause each of
the cities und:-r the project to establish revolving funds under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.22      The proposed project would be substantially self-financing and
would not impc)se an additional financial burden on the cities. On the
con-trary, as ;1 result of revisions to existing cost recovery mechanisms
beivr. introduced, the project would have a positive impact on the local
authorities' cash flow (paras. 5.27 and 5.28).



- 35 -
Cost Recovery
5.23      The principles of cost recovery to be applied to the various ele-
ments of the project will be based on well established and very effective
cost recovery mechanisms in place in the local authorities. Under the
current practice the costs (development and usage) for services such as
electricity, water supply, sewprage and waste disposal, are fully recovered
through tariffs and rates or supplementary charges which are raised as
necessary to keep pace with costs. Other developmental costs (roads,
drainage, land purchase, site preparation, surveying and design) are
recovered through plot sales.1u/
5.24      Plot prices are based on actual development costs (excluding
costs recovered through tariffs and supplementary charges) in all the
project towns except in Bulawayo where the price is assessed by the city
valuer based on market valuation (see Annex 5, Tables 9-19 for details of
current practice of cost recovery in each town).   A comparison of existing
plot prices in the four local authorities suggests that approximately
one-third of total development costs are currently being recovered through
plot sales and the remaining two-thirds through rates and tariffs as
described above. This has proven a very effective mechanism for full cost
recovery.
5.25      Historically, the municipalities have been the financiers of low-
cost housing. In the past, they generally held the housing themselves and
rented it out at cost-covering prices. However, more recently they have
shifted to a policy of selling rental stock as well as concentrating their
resources on the construction of low-cost housing to be sold rather than
rented. In all cases, the municipalities act as the mortgage holders on a
long-term purchase basis. Consequently, the municipalities were
responsible for financing both the infrastructure and construction of
housing. Clearly, with increases in migration to the cites and reduced
allocation for housing from Government (the primary source, in the past, of
funds for housing) the municipL'lities are unlikely to be able to maintain a
significant housing program unless alternative financing arrangements can
be introduced that allow them to recover their investment capital over the
short term and redeploy the resources to meet the growing demand for
housing.
5.26      The proposed project addresses this issue in two ways.  First,
the primary responsibility for financing the construction of housing would
be shifted from the local authorities to the private sector, and the local
authorities would only focus on expanding the supply of serviced land
(para. 1.21). Secondly, since housing credit would be made available to
the beneficiary by the private sector (i.e., building societies) the local
authorities would recover infrastructure costs attributable to plot charges
10/ There are minor variations, in cost recovery mechanisms between the
local authorities, details of which are provided in Annex 5, pages 1-9.



- 36 -
up front instead of financing these costs over the long term. The impact
of rapid rollover of resources available to the public sector for urban
housing would result in an increase of about 30% in investment in
infrastructure. Taking current levels of investment in low-income housing
as an example, the impact would be to increase supply from 16,500 units to
22,500 units. Consequently, under the project, revision to existing cost
recovery mechanisms would be introduced that will significantly increase
the municipalities' capocity to generate additional resources for
infrastructure by substantially improving their cash flow in the short
term.
5.27     About 83% of total project costs would be recovered under the
project (see Table V-I). Of the recoverable costs approximately two-thirds
would be recovered directly from the beneficiaries through plot sales and
mortgage repayments and the remainder through existing rates (supplementary
charges) and tariffs. These costs include house loans, on-site and
off-site infrastructure, and small business loans. Costs for community
facilities, technical assistance (including equipment and vehicle) to the
municipalities, amounting to 11% of total project costs, would be recovered
indirectly through general municipal revenues. The remaining 6% of total
project costs for technical assistance (including equipment and vehicles)
to Central Government Ministries would be charged to the government budget.
C. Building Society Operations
5.28      The building societies were established under the Building
Societies Act of 1965. Currently, there are three building societies in
Zimbabwe: (i) The Central Africa Building Society (CABS); (ii) Beverly
Building Society; and (iii) Founders Building Society. Their activities
are controlled by the registrar of the building societies who makes an
annual (calendar year) report to the Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning
and Development.  The three building societies of Zimbabwe are unique in
developing countries in that they are close copies of the British building
societies. For instance, they invite savings and deposits, for the most
part short-term, from the public and from institutions, and lend their
funds on a long-term basis to finance purchase and construction of
residential and commercial property. The building societies are described
in more detail in the sector report.
5.29      During the past 10-year period building societies have grown
steadily. A 10-year (1973-1982) consolidated balance sheet of the building
societies (see Annex 5, Table 20) shows that total assets more than doubled
during this period from Z$300 million in 1973 to Z$644 million in 1982.
The composition of the combined assets of the societies for 1973, 1978 and
1982 is presented in Table V-2.



ZINSAIWI URBAN DEVELOPKINT PROWECT
TbeV-1;la r to cost Re covery
RECOVERY SOURCE                                                    Not
DIRECT                                            INDIRECT        Recovered
(Govermont
Total     Plot       Beneficiary Loan      Tariffs             User      Rates                General Nun.      Budgetery
E1apnditure Itea                Cost       Sales      Repayments            (Elec. Water)       Fees     (supp. Charges)      Revenues           Allocations)
1. Capital Development
A. Sites and Services        46,008    13,802                             27,604                      4,602
S. Co munity facilities    11,109                                                                                           11,309
C. &us Station                1,602                                                         1,602
SUB-TOTAL             58,9S9    13,802                             27,604             1,602    r,602                  I M.0
2. Technical Aesistance
A. Harare                       419.5                                                                                          4t9.5
B. Bulavayo                     419.5                                                                                          a19.5
C. Nutare                       419.5                                                                                          419.5
0. Nievingo                     419.5                                                                                          419.5
S. NON                          676                                                                                                               876
F. NCTP                       4,365                                                                                                            4,36S
0. MT                           173                                                                                                              11
H. ITEM                          56                                                                                          _____56
SUB-TOTAL        I      ,18                                                                                            1,678
3. Cquipm_nt and Vehicles
A. HMreret                       61                                                                                              61
D. Bulawayo                      61                                                                                              61
C. Htuece                        23                                                                                              23
D.  oasvingo                 .  23                                                                                               23                                              %4
S. HCtP                         666.5                                                                                                             666.5
F. MT                           556                                                                                                               556
0. 2tSI                         220                                                                                                               220
H. bCH                           57.5                                                                                                              57.5
$US-TOTAL              1,66168                                                                                                           1,500
4. ZAAT Ustablishent Costs /&   221                      221
S. House Construction Lonas   49,200                  49,200
TOTAL                117,196/b 13,602       49,421                 27,604             1,602     4,602                 13,155             6,970
Percent                  1OOT      122         42X                    241              1.02                 41         -                    fix 6
T Direet Cost Recovery       63.0
X Indirect Cost Recovery   11,0
X Non-mocoverable Costs       6.0
100.0
o/ ZAAT would recover operational enpensee through tuition fees
if EscLuding 1111,000 ftront and tees



- 38 -
Table V-2: COMPOSITION OF BUILDING SOCIETY ASSETS
1973             1978              1982
Type of Asset              $ million    %   $ million    %   $ million   %
Mortgage Advances            225.9    75.1    316.1    67.6    376.9    58.6
Investments:
Government                  42.5    14.1      73.7    15.8      89.9    14.0
Municipal                    3.0      1.0      2.9      0.6      1.3      0.2
Loans to Government          5.2      1.7     25.5      5.4     63.4    10.0
Treasury Bills               0.6      0.2      1.0      0.2      0.1     0.0
Cash                           3.0      1.0      4.5      1.0     20.4      3.2
Deposits with Other
Institutions                 9.9      3.3     26.7     5.7      61.7     9.5
Loans against Shares
and Deposits                 2.6      0.9      3.9     0.8       5.0     0.7
Other Assets                   8.0      2.7     13.5      2.9     24.7      3.8
TOTAL                      300.8   100.0    467.9   100.0    643.4   100.0
===    _==
5.30      Mortgages constitute by far the largest element of the asset
structure. Mortgage lending increased from Z$226 million in 1973 to Z$377
million (67%) in 1982, representing around 59% of total assets in 1982.
Investments in government and municipal stock amount to 14%. 'Loans to
Governments have increased dramatically from Z$5 million in 1973 to Z$63
million in 1982 and account for 10% of total assets.
5.31      Under the 1965 Act the building societies are subject to minimum
liquidity requirement. Until recently the societies were required to
maintain liquid assets equal to 15% of presented liabilities; however, this
minimum was increased to 20%. Recently, the Registrar of Building
Societies has proposed to increase the liquidity requirements to 23%.
Liquid assets must be maintained only in approved deposits, or invested in
government and municipal stocks with a maturity date of not more than six
years. Approved deposits are confined to demand or short-term deposits
with government commercial banks and discount houses. Level of liquidity
maintained by the societies has generally been above the minimum statutory
requirements.
5.32      The primary source of funds of the building societies is from
deposits and shares. Of thi total resources available to the societies, as
of December 1982, 49% was from deposits (fixed and savings) and 42Z from
share capital. Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the building
societies is the extent to which they have been able to raise small savings
from the public. The total number of savings accounts in the three
societies is around 700,000--almost one account for every 10 people-which
indicates a widespread financial awareness that is exceptional in a
developing country.



- 39 -
5L.3LIterest rates for both borrowing and lending operations are
fixed by the Treasury in consultation with the Registrar of Buildinlg
Societies and the building societies themselves. Prevailing interest rates
for deposits range from 7.75% on sight deposits to 10% for fixed deposits
for 24 months or more. Lending rates range from 12.5Z on mortgages for
owner-occupied residential properties to 14.75% for commercial and
industrial properties. Based on actual cost of borrowing and lendilng
operations, it is estimated that the societies have an average interest
rate spread of 3.5% to 4%.
5.34      In the recent past, the building society competitive position has
been weakened by modifications in the structure of interest rates. These
changes were based on deliberate government policy to divert funds from
high cost housing (see Annex 5 for details).
5.35      Clearly, this project presents an opportune time for the building
societies to enter the low-income housing market.  It not only provides a
market for loan funds during depressed upper-income housing market, but
ensures the building societies' survival in the long-term. The inclusion
of the building societies brings with it an important source of long-term
financing for low-income housing, and a well established and successful
mechanism for mobilizing private savings for low-income housing.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Primary Project Justification
6.01      The benefits from this project arise primarily from its influence
on government shelter policy. To understand the benefits, therefore, it is
useful to consider the shelter policy framework that would exist with and
without the project, in addition to the usual analysis of the rate of
return on project components. Subject to the conditions outlined in the
section on project risks, the most important with and without circumstances
are summarized in the following matrix.



- 40 -
Expected Developmnt of Shelter Pollicy Parameters
With Project           Without Project
ConcentrE;tion of Public   Concentration on land       Spending on land
Shelter Expenditure        development and             development, infra-
infrastructure             structure and housing
with the highest public
costs in housing
Involvement of the         Financing the bulk of       Nil
Private Sector             low-cost housing from
private sources
Range of Housing           Starting from standard    Fewer choices, less
Solutions--(tiherefore     basic plot preparation,   responsive to user
affordability and          a wide variety of           preference
poverty impact)            solutions based on
user preference
Recovery of public         Quick recovery of a         Long-term recovery of
funds (therefore           portion of infra-           all costs, including
replicability)             structure cost (plot        large housing costs,
purchase price) and long- through rates and
term recovery of the       mortgages
balance of infrastructure
cost through tariffs and
supplementary charges.
No public funds committed
for housing units
Scale (therefore poverty  Number of units              Number of units
impact)                    constrained only by need  constrained by need for
for long-term public       long-term public
finance, for a portion    finance for all
of infrastructure          infrastructure and
housing
B. Economic Rate of Return on Sbelter Components
6.02      Economic rates of return based on quantifiable direct benefits
have been calculated for all shelter components comprising about 82% of
project cost. For each project town these benefits were estimated as a
stream of imputed rental values, based on observations of rental values for
similar housing in the same towns. Costs include: (i) all costs of
on-site infrastructure and shelter construction; (ii) the portion of the
cost of off-site infrastructure financed by the project which are
attributable to the project site; (iii) costs of design and engineering;
and (iv) maintenance costs of housing and infrastructure. Costs and



- 41 -
benefits are calculated in domestic prices as of July 1984. All shelter
components yield rates of return in the range of 14% to 17.5% with an
average rate of return of 15.3% (see Annex 6, Table I for the detailed rate
of return calculation and explanatory notes). Sensitivity tests show that
if total costs were 10% higher or benefits were 10% lower than projected,
or if benefits were delayed by one year--circumstances which may reasonably
occur--the estimated rate of return would not be less than 13% (see Annex
6, Table II for details on the sensitivity analysis).
C.  Ntn-Quantifiable Benefits:  Transport Component
6.03      The transport component, which comprises 3% of project costs, is
directed toward solving three specific problems:
(a)  First, by establishing a transport unit within MLGTP, the project
lays the necessary groundwork for locational transportation
analysis within the general planning for rapid urban growth.
(Most towns will double in size in about a decade);
(b)  In spite of relatively good infrastructure, the traffic safety
record of Zimbabwe is among the worst in the world. By equipping
and training the Traffic Safety Board, and improving licensing,
registration and road accident recording and data handling, this
component will improve the general standards of traffic safety;
and
(c)  The present arrangement of bus termini in Harare involves serious
bus congestion. By constructing a central bus station and
providing traffic engineering works for an ancillary terminus,
this project will save bus time, particularly in rush hours,
amounting to about half an hour per day per bus.
D. Intangible Benefits:  Preserving Urban Assets through Training
Assistance
6.04      Urban infrastructure in Zimbabwe is relatively modern and of a
high standard. Historically, urban management has been excellent,
benefitting from a well-trained and adequately large staff. To preserve
existing urban assets, it is essential that rapid training of technical
staff be undertaken in order to replace the losses due to both migration
and transfer to the private sector which date from independence and are
still continuing. The benefit from the training component (paras. 2.17 to
2.20) will be the preservation of competence at the local government
level. It is estimated that this program will provide adequate technical
staff to continue the high standards of automotives and plant maintenance
and to operate and maintain the water supply and sewerage systems.
Community service staff will be used primarily in the development of
low-income housing. Though intangible, the benefit to the cities, in terms
of their continued ability to maintain adequately and operate efficiently,
their existing administrative services and infrastructure, is high.
6.05      Finally, this project will have macro-economic and employment
benefits through its stimulation of the local construction industry. The
urban economy of Zimbabwe is currently depressed, with the house
construction industry particularly depressed because of two factors:



- 42 -
decline of government housing funds available for low-income housing, and
excess supply of high-income housing on account of rapid migration. By
redirecting available financing from high-cost to low-cost housing, this
project will substantially increase overall activity and employment in the
housing portion of the construction sector-a sector with strong linkages
to domestic suppliers--and thus help to get the urban ecenomy of Zimbabwe
moving again.
E. Poverty Impact and Affordability
6.06      During the period of slow urban growth prior to and immediately
following independence, the municipal governments supplied virtually all of
the low-cost housing that was constructed in Zimbabwe's cities using their
own municipal funds and funds borrowed from the Central Government.
Although there was a shortage of low-cost housing leading to crowding, the
low-cost housing situation was rery good by developing country standards
and housing services for the u:ban poor were among the best existing in any
of the Bank's borrowing countries. With the rapid growth of cities in the
post-independence period, and the changing investment priorities of
Government, low-income housing development by the public sector could no
longer begin to keep pace with the need for housing. Crowding increased
greatly, and squatter settlements, familiar in other developing countries
but unique in Zimbabwe's experience, began to emerge in Zimbabwe's biggest
cities. Clearly, a new mechanism for low-income housing construction was
required which would be consistent with declining government budgets for
housing and would still meet the need for decent housing for the poor.
6.07      This project is designed to ease the transition to a new method
of provision of low-cost housing. In this project the municipalities
confine this involvement to the provision of serviced sites, which is
within their financial capability in the long-run, and the provision of
finance for house construction is provided by building societies and
private savings. The project thus facilitates a major innovation which has
the potential to provide sufficient housing for the urban poor. The
housing units provided under the project meet the basic needs of the urban
poor for shelter, water and sanitation, electricity and access.
6.08      The affordability calculations for this project have assumed that
the poor can afford to pay about 25% of household incomes for housing. The
urban poverty threshold has been calculated, following standard Bank
practice at Z$126 per month per household.ll/ Thus households at the
upper end of the poverty group could afforWFabout Z$32 per month for
housing. The rental rooms, which will comprise about 75% of the housing
units provided under this project, will rent for about Z$25 per month.
They will, therefore, be affordable to househo'lds with incomes well below
the poverty threshold (at the 13th percentile of household incomes).
11/ For a country at the income level of Zimbabwe, the Bank formula is:
Poverty Threshold equals per capita GNP x .35 x 1.25 x household size.
In Zimbabwe's case: Z$696 x .35 x 1.25 x 5 = Z$1,520 (household
poverty threshold.)



- 43 -
6.09      For basic units it is probable that the purchasers of plots under
the project will be owner-occupiers. The monthly net cost of housing to
these owner-occupiers will be the difference between monthly charges
(amortization of plot price and house construction cost plus rates and
utilities) and monthly rental. After full development, total monthly
payments will be between Z$90-100 per month, consisting of amortization
costs of Z$49 for the plot price and building costs (at 12.5% interest over
30 years) and service payments and rates of between Z$40-50. (Minimum
charges for services and supplementary plot charges are at present in the
neighborhood of Z$23. With increased use of utilities due to rentals, the
average charges at full development will probably be in the Z$40 to Z$50
range.)
6.10      With total charges per plot of about Z$100, the net monthly cost
to the owner-occupier will also fall in the neighborhood of Z$25, that is,
payment of Z$100 less rental payments on three rooms totalling ZS75. The
owner-occupier, however, bears the risk of rental vacancies or default and
of cost overruns on construction as well as the maintenance costs of
houses. Realistically, therefore, a slightly higher income, or
pre-existing savings, would be required to own a plot than would be
required to rent a room. Nevertheless, households at or just below the
poverty threshold (i.e., those able to afford about Z$32 per month from
household incomes) can afford the debt and service support of plot
ownership and development.
6.11      In total, this project will serve about 45,400 households:
34,000 as renters and 11,400 who will be owners of plots. All of these
shelter solutions are affordable to the poverty group. In terms of the
total demand for housing, this project will provide for approximately 35%
to 40% of the expected increases in the number of households in the project
cities during the project period. Thus the project itself is a major
vehicle for housing the urban poor. It is expected that during the project
period new programs of the same type will be started, following the same
basic pattern of cost sharing: infrastructure costs financed by
government, and housing costs financed by the private sector through the
building societies.
F. Project Rists
6.12      The main risks affecting this project concern loss of staff in
the local authorities during implementation, and program continuity. Other
potential risks include standards of housing provision; and the use of
building brigades.
Program Continuity
6.13      The project assists with the implementation of major new policy
initiatives by Government that will require continued effort over the long
term if they are to become fully effective. Support beyond the time frame
of this project is therefore necessary. If no follow-up operation is



- 44 -
planned, there is a risk that the objectives of the project will not be
fully realized and may be dissipated in time. To mitigate this risk,
supervision resources have been allocated to assist with preparation of
future projects and to maintain an appropriate dialogue with government
and, assuming continued receptivity to Bank advice, further support is
foreseen.
Loss of Staff
6.14      There has been a substantial drain of experienced professional
staff. This occurred initially at Central Government level, and is now
taking place at the local authority level. Replacement efforts have not
filled all the vacancies, and most new staff are usually relatively
inexperienced and frequently under-qualified. Nevertheless positions have
been filled and the loss of staff has slowed. The mission felt that enough
depth in current staffing was in place to cope with the requirements of
project execution despite some continuing staff losses. However, to insure
against major unforeseen staffing changes, 16 staff-years of technical
assistance has bee-i included for the project towns.
Standards
6.15      Current policy regarding housing standards aims for the
progressive development of a 'our-room house. Under this policy one room
and toilet core would be sufficient to permit plot occupation by the
beneficiary. While there is a risk that requiring completion of four rooms
within 18 months might preclude housing opportunities for low-income
families, during negotations assurances were obtained from Government that
(i) financing at the time of allocation would be tied to the ability of the
beneficiary to afford the payments for a structure sufficient to permit
plot occupation; (ii) about 70% of plot allocation would be for
beneficiaries in the incomes below ZS200 per month; and (iii) extensions to
the 18-month target would be permitted on grounds of affordability.
Building Brigades
6.16      While there is a risk under current policy that local authorities
would favor the use of building brigades for the construction of low-cost
housing, during negotiations the policy of self-managed progressive housing
construction, in which the beneficiaries would be free to choose the mode
of construction of their units, was confirmed.
6.17      As described in paras. 6.13 to 6.16 above, the specific measures
proposed and assurances received are considered adequate to limit the risks
to acceptable levels.



- 45 -
VII. RECOMKENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following arrangements were reviewed and
agreed on:
(a) The implementation schedule for recruiting the local
authority training team ar.d setting up the training program;
(b) The draft terms of reference for:
(i) the training team (para. 2.17);
(ii) the PCMU, the Program Coordinator and the Financial
Analyst (para. 2.19(a);
(iii)  the four Advisors (one each) to be assigned to the
four project towns (para. 2.19(b);
(iv) the two Housing Advisors (civil engineer and quantity
surveyor) to the MCNH (para. 2.19(a); and
'v) the UTU, the transportation planning consultant, and
the technical assistance required for UTU to become
operational (paras. 2.20(a) and 4.09(c); and
Cc)  Final draft agreements between CDC, Government and the
building societies with particular reference to loan
allocation procedures and conditions, loan management
procedures, and charges, fees and legal conditions to the
loans (paras. 4.14 and 4.15).
7.19      At negotiations assurances were obtained:
(a)  Regarding the policy of self-managed progressive house
construction under the project whereby one room plus
ablution facility would be the accepted minimum initial
provision that would allow plot occupation and would serve
as the basis for evaluating affordability when allocating
plots and mortgage loans (paras. 4.12 and 4.14);
(b) That Government would before December 31, 1984:
(i) establish the PCMU and appoint the Program
Coordinator and the Financial Analyst, as well as
their counterparts from within the Ministry at that
time (paras. 2.19(a) and 4.09(b);
(ii) establish the UTU and fill all positions (para.
2.20(a)within 60 days of the Unit being established;
(iii)  appoint the two Housing Advisors to the MCNH
(para.2.19(a); and



- 46 -
(iv)   establish the Steering Committee to assist with
coordinating project implementation (para. 4.03).
(c)  That adequate resources would be included in the budgets of
the Ministries of Health and Education and from the project
towns for operating the clinics and schools to be built
under the project (para. 2.10) in the year the facilities
are to be completed.
(d)  That a lending rate for all loans to be made under the
project through the National Housing Fund would be
established that would be not less than its cost of
borrowings (para. 5.06);
te)  That Government would ensure that building societies would
utilize criteria consistent with those agreed between the
Government and the Bank under the project for the allocation
of mortgage loans (para. 4.15);
(f) That the Local Authorities would:
Ci) each establish the Working Committee before December
31, 1984, and designate the Project Coordinator at
that time (para. 4.06);
(ii) each appoint the Advisor to the Project Coordinator
before December 31, 1984 (paras. 2.19(b) and 4.06);
(iii)  submit final designs of primary schools, clinics,
community centers and administrative buildings to the
Bank for approval prior to initiating bid procedures
Cpara. 2.10);
(iv) complete and epprove staffing proposals satisfactory
to the Bank for implementing the owner managed house
construction process (para. 4.07).
(v) establish a Revolving Fund from the proceeds of tne
plot sales, with conditions and procedures for the
use of these funds satisfactory to the Bank (para.
5.21); and
7.20      At negotiations, procurement procedures to be employed in the
project were reviewed and agreed upon (paras. 4.16 to 4.21).
7.21      The following are special conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  The signature of the subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government on the one part and each of the four Local
Authorities, and the Government and ZAAT; and
(b)  The signature of the Agreement between Government and CDC
and the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness (excluding the effectiveness of the Bank loan
agreement).



TABLI I:s  IlItSTIUCrUU  CitPOi Ifr BY SIT! AID T(WN
Total Number                                                                                                  On-Site Infrastructure
of
Residential   Roads and Storm
Plots        Water Drainage           Sewerage                Water             Electricity                 Standardn of Service
HARARE   MPG             2,450      Widening &             Pump Station         Reservoir of                                ROADS:  Vehl;le aceess to all plots
PIIASE I                  Reconstruction of  capacity 500             I1,400m3 capacity;                          witF majority local access roads of
VLrginia Rd - *2ks liters/sec.,            *Ikm bulk supply                            8.Om reserve of which 3.0. built up.
27lhead; *1.5km    main to HPG plua                              Bitumen surfacing optional according
rising main;t1.lkm connection to                                 to current practices of town;
outfall sewer from PHASE I
main outfall to
Flrle works
GLEN             902                                                                                              SURFACE WATER DRAINAGEz  to all roads
NORAH                                                                                                             as open vee or trapezoidal drains
________                                                                                               (unlined);
SUNNING-       1,435
DALE
BULAWAYO SECTION 6    1,089          I 2.7ka extension                                                 20 HYA substation; WATERS  All plots to have individual
(NKETA)                              to Si Ye Pambili                                                 Switching station; water connections.  Service provided
Drive; Extension                                                 88KV line on Nketa to plot boundary.  Connection from
to Nketa Drive Rd.                                               Drive; IIKV           boundary to wet core responsibility
over rail bridge                                                 Circuit               of plotholder.  All connections
metered.  Distribution network In
SECTION 7    1,905                                                                                                road reserve or on rear boundary of
plot.;
SEWERAGE: All plots to have
Individual connections to water borne
SECTION 8    1,521                                                                                                system.  Junctions for each plot
provided In mid-block sewer.
Connectlon from junction to wet core
responsibility of plotholder;
NUTARe   DEVON-          1,522       Extension of:         3.3m diam.            Mountain View         88 KV line           ELECTRICITY:  All plots to have
SHIRE                     Aerodroma Rd tlkm; collector sever to Reservoir 8,000,3                                 individual connections via network of
PHASE I                   Helkle Rd k 0.3km  Gimboki outfall    capacity; Bulk                                   overhead cables located on rear
supply main from                           boundary of plot.  All individual
reservolr to sLte                          connections made by local electricity
authority;
HASVINGO TOWN               525                                                  675mm/450Sm  bulk                          SECURITY/STREIT LiGHTING:  by means
CENTER                                                                supply main from                            of tower lights;
SOUTH                                                                 Target Kop
PHASE I                                                               Reservolr to site                           SOLID WASTE:  Refuse bins to each                      '  _
plot provided by local authority.



TAULC 2i COIOSNITY FACILITIES BT SITE AND TOWN
Primary                                       Site Administ.   Community
Schools         Clinics         Markets         Offices           Centers       Bus Termini
HARARE   MPG      2 x 21         1 satellite    1; ground        I large fully           I        1 ground
classroom      clinic          surfacing,      equipped                        surfacing and
water and                                       drainage only
drainage only
Glen                                                                           1
Norah                                  I
Sunning I x 21         1 satellite                      I small fully          1        1 ground
-dale   classroom      clinic                          equipped                         surfacing and
drainage only
BULAWAYO PHASE 6 1 x 21          1 polyclinic   1; ground        1 large fully           1                                    X
(NKETA)           classroom                      surfacing,      equipped
water and
drainage only
PHASE 7 1 x 21         served by                       served by               1
classroom      Phase 6                         Phase 6
facility                        facility
PHASE 8 1 x 21         served by                       served by               1
classroom      Phase 6                         Phase 6
facility                        facility
MUTARE   Devon-  I x 21          1 primary       1; ground       1 small fully           1
shire   classroom      health          surfacing,      equipped                                               m
PHASE I                preventive      water and                                                                _
care            drainage only
MASVINGO Town    1 x 10          1 rural         1; ground       1 small fully           1
Center  classroom      health center  surfacing,       equipped
South   (first phase) standard         water and
PHASE II                               drainage only



- 49                             ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
LOCAL AUTHDRITY ON THE JOB 7RAINI NG PROGRAY
Draft Curricula
Curricula proposed for the various types of courses are described
in outline below. The criteria are that they should be closely related to
job requirements, and should complement formal training courses, where they
exist.
(a) Community Services Department (Housing). The staff of this
department provide technical and legal advisory services to
beneficiaries, supply them with building materials and receive
payments of tariffs and supplementary payments.
Building Demonstrators
The objective is to train craftsmen to cope with the community
aspects of their jobs. The curriculum should include:
Work Planning            )
Material Ordering        )    35%
Construction Methods    )
Byelaws                  )
Administration                15%
Public Relations         )
Communication            )    50%
Community Relations      )
Storemen
Trainees, probably school-leavers or people with some experience,
must be trained to control a small store and issue building
materials as required. Their curriculum should include:
Requisitioning, Receipt and Issue                30%
Layout, Storage, Handling                        40%
Security, Stock Control, Public Relations        30%
Project Management
Senior staff in the Department of Community Services and Housing
will receive training in Project Management. The training should
be directly related to their regular work of setting the project
up and should include Coordination, Work Planning, use of simple
Critical Path Methods and Bar Charts and Communication.
Area Managers/Administrators
The administrative staff are responsible for the smooth running
of the estates as they develop and once they are functioning.
The curriculum should include:
- Record keeping; Processing of allocations, etc. )
-  Statistics; Card Index                              ) 40%



- 50 -                           AI  2
Page 2 of 4
- Correspondence; Filing; Receiving and distributing)
mail; Notices and demands                           ) 40X
-  Communication; Public Relations                        2Z0%
Revenue Clerks
They are likely to be school leavers who must be trained to
receive regular cash payments and keep accurate records. Their
course should include:
Collection, Receipts, Recording payments               45%
Reports, Security, Public Relations                    30%
Use of simple accounting machines                      25%
(b) Treasurers Department
This department has a global responsibility for receipt and
control of the authority's finances. Those training to be
Accountants and Accounting Technicians are considered.
Accountant
The Accountant is responsible for all aspects of the accounts
related to a specific sector. Trainees will normally have a B.
Comm. and they will be studying for a professional qualification,
mainly Z.I.P.F.A. The curriculum should cover:
-  Annual estimates, Data Processing, Forecasting         30%
-  Investments, Tariff Charges, Salaries & Wages          40%
-  Audit, Housing Finance, Administration                 30X
Accounting Technician
Trainees will normally hold a Diploma in Business Studies or
similar and will be studying for Z.A.A.T. They must be trained
to assume non-routine accounting tasks. The curriculum should
include:
Financial Information and Records                      40Z
Data Processing and Cost Accounting                    40%
Internal Audit                                         20%
(c) Works Department
This department is responsible for all technical services in the
local authorities. Such services as highway maintenance and
street lighting do not seem to be experiencing special manpower
problems. The functions of mechanical maintenance and water
supply and sewerage purification are critical and have severe
manpower shortages in all authorities observed.



- 51 -
ANUU 2
Page 3 of 4
Mechanical Staff
The curricula for these operators must follow those laid down by
the relevant Industrial Council. In this case, OJT may
supplement training received at N.I.C. Training Centres aimed at
Trade Tests for skill levels 4 to 1. Detailed curricula and
training materials already exist for such courses.
Sewerage and Waterworks Supervisors
An excellent course has been run for some years in Harare on a
national basis and is technically sound and should be supported
with specialist training advice. The course is in two parts:
Part I
Maths        34%
Chemistry    33%
Biology      33%
Part II
Unit Operation and Theory, Workshop Practice       60X
Maths, Chemistry, Biology, Safety                  20%
Water Cycle, Trade Effluent Control                 20%



- 52 -
ANMEX 2
Page 4 of 4
INSTRUCTOR              * LOCAL AUTHORITY  ON TEE JON TRAINUNG PROCRAM
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3
Pbst                 <      t     s    te        _  _  _ Speciaifty  (lMa-h)
Training Coordinator         Buildings           42              _  _  _ -       _    _ . -  _
Housing Instructor (1)       Site Staff          36                 _  _  _  _   _   _ _
Housing Instructor (2)      Project Man           6                  _ .
Mechanical Instructor (1)   Automotive           36                 _  _  _  _    - _  _   _
(2)   Plant               36                 ----                    
i                 (3)   Mechanical           30                 -  _  _  _     -  - _
Civil Engineer Instructor   Water/Sewerage       24                 _   _   _      -
Accounts Instructor (1)      Professional        36                 _ -                   - _
-                       Technician           36                 -  -  - -echncian  3
282



FILEW EIZIN-1I11
PRINTIAS-6
ZIDADIIK IWM    KWLOPIT  MOACT
DISINMSEINTS
(Z3'000)                    EXPENDITURE PSING X                            MOECT DISMMEIET
L0CAL   FEI16    TOTAL   1904        1M       198      1967     1M       194       1        196      1997     1M      TOTAL
DIUIISENEDT CATERIES
1. CIVIL  kS
A. SITE DKY. I WRICINS               49334     9023    57357        4        35       40       19        2  2294.21 20074.95  22942,9 1069743  1147.14   57357
(IRM. CON, FAC8.J
*. K    STATION                       1217      385     1602        0        50      50                           0      S01      601        0        0     1602
513-TOTAL                      50551      40     S6959                                                2294.29 2067595  23743. 10897.63  1147.14   569
2. EIIUIPT I 4tHCLES
AtIVARC                                  0       61       61                 40       45       15        0        0     24.4    27,45     9.15        0       61
t. PAATO                                 0       61       d1                40        45       15        0        0     24.4   27&45      9.15        0       i6
C. UTbIR                                 0       23       23                 40       45       IS        0        0      9.2    10.35     3.45        0       23
to NWIN11                                0       23       23                 40       45       15        0        0      9.2   10.35      3,41        0       23                   w
E. ndoH ,0                                     57.5     57.5                 40       45       15        0        0       23   25.675    3.62$        0     57.5
F. MLITP                                SO    616,5    666.5        0        40       45       15        0        0    266.6  299925   99.975         0    *66.5
t NT                                     0      556      556       10       50        30       10              55.6      278    14,6    55.6          0      556
N. ZT8                                   0      220      220                 40       45       IS                 0       98       99       33        0      220
113-TOTIL                         50     1619     1668                                                   556    722.1    667.2   222.4          0     1618
3. TECHNICAL ASSIUTNACE
A.s VA1                                 42    377ms    419.5                 25       25       25       25        0  104.975  104.975  104.375  104.M75    41945
|l: Ai^to                               42    377.5   419.5                 25       25        25       25        0  104.175  1044675  104M9M   104,675    419,5
C. UJTRE                                42    377.5   419.5                 25       25        25       25        0  104.975  104.975  104.875 104,675    419.5
D. WIIAINGO                             42    M75    419.5                  25        25       25       25        0  104.975  104MO5  104.875  104.67O    419,5
E.s go                                   7      79       976                 25       25       25       25        0      219      219      219      219      876
F. I1ITP                               206     4157     4365        5        30       30       30        5   218.25   1309.5  1309.5  1309.S  216.25        4365
8. mK                                   35      138      173               100                                    0      173        0        0        0      173
N. ZTMS                                 12       44       56                50        25       25                 0       26       14       14        0        6
3*UTOTbL                         510     6638     714                                                  218.25     2149     1962     1962  656.75      7146
4. UAT ETAIIII   l18                      155               221       so50 0  0IO                                         l.00 5       0        0        0      221
4. MT ENI UII           1                   O       61      21       10   i0 110                                              0        0        0        0       lit
Go0ROCTES                                   0               1        10                                                       0        0        0        0      111
TOTAL                          5126    16641   48107                                                 276  215.25    263 1301.23  2003.89    6107



ZLMBABWE URBAN DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
TABLE 2: PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
(Z$ '000)
X
Total      Bank           Total                1984                 1985                 1986                 1987                1988
Cost    Financed    Bank        Govt.      Bank     Govt.      Bank      Govt.      Bank      Govt.      Bank      Govt.      Bank      Govt.
1. Civil Works      58,959      60      35,625    23,334    1,388          906   12,630    8,246    14,246         9,498    6,593       4,306       768      378
1. Equipment &
Vehicles         1,668    100        1,668                   56                  723                  667                  222                    0
3.Consultant Service
& Technical
Asaistance    7,148    100         7,148                  218         -      2,149        -       1,962         -      1,962                 857        --n
4. ZAAT
(Establiehmnt
Costs)             221     80         177         44        88         22        88        22                   _                   _                     _
Sub-Total       67,996              44,368    23,378    1,750          928   15,590    8,268    16,875         9,498    8,777       4,306    1,625        378
5. Front End Fee        111               111                  III                           _                                         _
TOTAL           68,107              44,729    23,378    1,861          928   15,590    8,268    16,875         9,498    8,777       4,306    1,625        378
> 
D A
r 



- 55 -
AWNEX 3
Table 3
FlWE:UNFL
PRINT 43-19
ZIlME  MM  DIEIIT PROJECT
FLOU W F-
(SU3SIDIMY LOANS I DLDTAR  SLOCATIONS)
SITE DEI- NSTI-
ELWIEIT  TUTIO1L
SERVI- 110ELWP-
CIIIC     HIT  TIASSE
SUuSIDII LWI  AGREEENTS
1. WNOE CITY COICIL
A. 1NR*STRuECS                                    222
B. COt ITY FACILITIES                             4727
C. SIL. BUSINESS STU
D. BUS STATION (CIVIL VOWS)                                        102
E. UENIO.ES I EOUIPIEIDT                                     23 
F. TECHICAL ASSISTAN  (EGRS)                              419.5
SU-TOTAL                             270W    442.5    U40
2. IILWAIO ClfY COUNCIL
A. INFRASTUSE                                     13511
P. COITY FACILITIES                               44U
C. UEHICLES I EUUIPMEIDT                                     23      3S
D. TECDHICAL 451ISTAIICE ENS)                             419.5
SUFT1TAL                             1799    442.5       J
3.  NUTAIE TOM CMLCIL
A. INFRASTIUCTIME                                 9106
-. COIIUNITT FACILITIES                           1326
C. VEHICLES I EINEPNT                                        23
D. TEIHNICAL ASSISIANMCE ElS)                             419.5
SUB-TOTAL                             9432   442.5        0
.  ASUINIGO     CM1 tCBIL
A. INFRASTUIK                                     2109
I. COUIITY FACIUTIES                               768
C. UIEICLES I EMINEWT                                        23
P. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (tENS)                            419.5
AT S-TOTUL                            2977   442.5        0
-3. lvii
A. OPERATIOINAL 099S                                        221
5aIoTaL                                  0      221       0
6. SEtDO
A. ORKING CIT.L LOS
SB-lOTAL                                 0       0        0
TOTAL-LOSS                           5737    31I    167
IMDETY ALLOCATIONS I SUITS
S. HINISTRY OF HOUSING
A. TECHNUICAL ASSISTANC
(2 EXPATS. FOR 4 YB)                                       976
3. VEHICLES I EINIPENT                                     57.5
SLO-TOTAL                                0   933.3        0
2. MINIST  OF LOUCL  TUKN ff
A. TEDNICAL. ISTA'N                                        17
(PR6. COORDINATOR. FIN. UUTST
1 3 LOCL sTEEl
B. TRAINING
TMIISULTANCY.EWFT. B UMEB Sj
C. TEHNICAL ASSISTAUCE I TRAININ                           2433     U75
0. UENIM.ES I ESIIPUnT                                    606.5      60
S9D-TTAL                                 0  4296.5      735
3.  INISTEY OF TRUST
A. TECHIICAL ASSISTAPCE                                             173
B. EHICLES I EMINUNT                                                ss
SU-TOTAL                                 0       0      729
5. lTSR
A. TEDSICAL ASISTANCE                                                5
B. EMICLES I EMINT                                                  220
911WTTAL                                 0        0     276
TOTAL-BUIETARY ALLOATIDS                 0    3230    1740
TOTAL LOUS I IETET   LLMOATIONS               57317    mi    3413



zumAMI UUAN DYElnmT FEOJICT
Table 111-4:  koect Cub Flows
(Z* '000)
1934      1985      1936      1937       19U          1989       1990      1991      1992     M13
Soearess
Government of Zimbabwe                                  2,678   10,407    8,128    2,165
ISRD Loan                                                 111     1,750   15,590   16,875    8,777             1,625
Com_onvealth Development Corp.                                      442      1,968    3,936    3,604
Building Societies (CABS,Beverly)                                 1,968    7,872   15,744   13,616
Short term borrowing                                             11,307
101-TOTAL                                      2,789   25,924   33,558   38,720   25,997              1,625
Project a*enm vel epayments
A, Loan Repayments:
i) Local Authorities
- Site Dev. and Coacunity Facilities                        239    2,282    4,717    5,957             6,087    6,087    6,087    6,087    6,087
- Institutional Dev. (Training)                              59        107       155       203           203       203       203        203       203
ii) ZAAT                                                          26        26         26        26            26        26        26         26        26
1ii) Harare - Transportation Improvements                          95        171       190       190           190       190       190        190       190
iv) Bulawayo - Transportation luprovements                         2          5         5         5             5         5          5         c         5
v) House ConstructLon Loans                                               317     1,584    4,118          6,335    6,335    6,335    6,335    6,335
SUB-TOTAL                                                  51-    Z,908    6,646   10,499            12,846   12,846   12,846    12,846   12,846
TOTAL SOUVLKS                                           2,789   26,319   36,466   45,366   34,496             14,471    12,846   12,846   12,846   12,846
Application of Ftads
1.  Civil Works                                         2,294   20,876   23,744   10,898         1,147
2.  Technical Asesitance                                  218    2,149       1,962     1,962       857
3.  Zquipment and Vehicles                                 56       723        667       222          -
4.  ZAAT Operational Expenses                             110        111         -         -          -
5.  House Construction Loans                                      2 460    9 840   19,680   17,220
SUB-TOT L                                      f,678   263i39   36 213   32,762   19,224
DOET SU  [CC
1)   IBRD Loan (ext. loan)&/                                                                                        6,320    6,230    6,230    6,230    6,230
li)  CDC Loan (ext. loan)  I                                                                                        1,315     1,315     1,315    1,315    1,315
ii) Front End Fee on Bank Loan                                111
iv)  Short Term Borrowinga c/                                                              6,515    6,515
v)   Building Societies d/                                           _             253    1,267    3,294            5,068    5,068    5,068    5,068    5,068
TOTAL ApplicatILoa                                           2,789   26,319   36,466   40,544   29,033             12,613   12,613   12,613   12,613   12,613
Annual Surplue/(Deficlt)                                                                    4,822    5,463          1,858       233       233        233       233
Culative Surplus/(Deficit)                                                                  4,822   10,285         12,143   12,376   12,609   12,842   13,075
a/  2$ 44.8 millioe   L 1IS over 20 years with 5 years grace.
b/  ZS 10.0 aillion   L 1O0  over 20 years with 5 years graca.
c/ Z$ 11.3 uillion I 102 over 2 yeers.
d/  Z$ 39.2 dillion 6 12.52 over 30 years.
Hay 4, 1986



- 57 -                        AM=f3
Page 1 of 3
Attachment I
To Table 4
NOTES ON PROJECT CASH FLOW (ThBTA 111-4)
(Z$000)
1.  Site Development and Servlcing and Ceuanity Facilities
Total Costs                              57,357
of which:
Infrastructure                           46,048 - 46.0
Community Facilities                     11,309 = 11.3
57.3
a. Infrastructure Loans to City @ 9.75% for 30 years:
(i)  Yearly repayment (annuity basis) on
loan of 46.5 million =         4,778
(ii) Yearly repayment on loans for
Community Facilities (Z$11,309)
@ 9.75% over 20 years          1,304
b. Expenditure Phasing
z
84     85     86      87    88
Infrastructure:        46,048        5     40     40      15     -
Community Facilities: 11,309         0     10     40      40    10
(Based on cumulative percentages as derived from the detailed
cost tables.)
1984   1985    1986    1987  1988   TOTAL
Infrastructure        2,302  18,419  18,419  6,908   -       46,048
Community Facilities   -      1,130   4,524  4,524  1,131  11,309
Repayment:  Infrastructure loans @ 9.75% over 30 years
Principal    1985      1986      1987      1988      1989
1984      2,302        239      239       239       239       239
1985     18,419               1,913    1,913      1,913    1,913
1986     18,419                         1,913     1,913    1,913
1987      6,908                                     718       718
1988        -          -        -         --
46,048       239    2,152    4,065       4,783    4,783



ANNEK 3
- 58 -                       Page 2 of 3
Attachment I
To Table 4
Repayment:  Community facilities loan @ 9.75% over 20% over 20 years
Principal    1985       1986     1987      1988      1989
1984        --         --        --        --        --       --
1985      1,130                  130       130       130      130
1986      4,524                  --        522       522      522
1987      4,524                  --        --        522      522
1988      1,131                  --        --        --        130
11,309                 130       652    1,174    1,304
TOTAL RWPAlNUS:         239    2,282    4,717    5,957    6,087
2.  Institutional Development
Total Cost                          Z$7,221
of which:
Loans to LA                            1,770
Loan to ZAMT                             221
Budgetary Grants                       5,230
Loan Repayments by Cities;  terms:  9.75% over 20 years
Amount Disbursed                 1985    1986    1987    1988
1984         510                            59       59      59       59
1985         420                                     48      48       48
1986         420                                             48       48
1987         420                                                      48
107      155     203
ZAAT Repayment:  9.75% over 20 years        26       26       26      26
3. Transport
Total Cost                        Z$3,418
of which:
Loan to Harare                    Z$1,640
Loan to Bulawayo                        38
Budgetary Grants                     1,740
Loan Repayments (9.75% over 20 years):
Harare            1985      1986      1987      1988
1984                820              95        95        95        95
1985                656                        76        76        76
1986                164                                  19        19
1,640              95       171       190      190
Bulawayo            1985      1986      1987      1988
1984                 15                2        2         2         2
1985                 17                         2         2         2
1986                  6                         1         1         1
38               2         5        5         5



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
Attachment 1
To Table 4
4.  Housing Finance - Nortgage Repsyments (12.5Z over 30 years)
1986     1987      1988     1989
1985              2,460             317      317       317      317
1986             9,840                     1,267    1,267    1,267
1987            19,680                              2,534    2,534
1988             17,220             _                         2,217
49,200             317    1,584    4,118    6,335
Source of Funding:
Building Societies - 80% of amount disbursed for housing loans
CDC - 20% of amount disbursed for housing loans (assumed disbursement
percentage)
Debt Service:
IBRD Loan = Z$44.8 million @ 11% over 20 years with 5 years grace
(including commitment fee. Interest rate
adjusted to 11% to reflect this)
Payments: Z$6,230
CDC Loan = Z$10.0 million Q 10% over 20 years with 5 years grace period
Payments:  Z$1,315
Short Term Borrowings = Z$11,307 at 10% over 2 years
Payments:  Z$6,515



Detailed Cost Estimates CZ$'O0O)
tun [. ....i v   atst'j...    Is    asome                     awitac           ........ -* u   ....   ......    cm nw                     mm  cim i              . alt' aml '27I -                     *..... ItL  S  a   t lu--   4.61161 141 111 l.t
slum    ca:1,                                                                          Ut          Mc M        L.      El        title                                                            is      Ira
IUSl  IIi'                          I       I1    Ini       I      IN5     inI       6      IS        I       S     in                                         I                                        In)       I      i5       e        s     IN        I       I      isto           I                         6
millit IU      TN
ctMSAW 4,                          S      IS    IN          I      3 I inI AnI                                           I                                             ILa               6      12 In            I      ill       I       S     714       S      PtI    tO         I       I       S       I      7
ma  STO m     mu    l=                  I     41       'l     1          '     N        SI      6        l aII IsmNanUtIWU                                                 166       11    tNte   6779      s  l It't        Ii    IRS              mm      1       IV?    5362    S                   I 1
nmm"                              Is      to    enA       as    .e2       1'n     in      WiA      *'       sa       I       SI 6                                    I                 I M    la      un       I7      eI         a     6a     MP,      sa      a        a      c       i.i        e       a     a
cumuli         at       a    vs                a'    an         in     ml       a        mu               a.      a                        U       ma               a       IS      CU       an     ii?        I     IC      SW      ill       l        I     S       -s6               5    PI
namuLmim                          is      as    in         aa     An      aM Y             I        U2      Is              H                                U       m         a        m       s       i      IB      ID1       I                       T7  i    I       I      II      le        S       I
a                         *~~~~ to       U'      It     ISP    ItOR       it?   1sal      HII      11       1       S       M                        P       U        3It      tI      M      161     thl    RiP                      .,M" t    -it    till    MN    ont        as        I        I    11"
mso                                I              I               Il    UNA        1II    Ni        0       U       it       I                                       II        Ill      U      "I    16        3       C'1        6       I 5 : W-      3N      C0       61     Nd       51        I          
cgK tt                            I i     is   lat        "P.    IPR"11I""1               "'S       It      U.              N        U g                     "I      36       II        SI     it      ii      P        S        S      ii       I      U                       14N      I         S       S     i
Uttmm l                           II      t5o    1  1      62    Ni      tN rnNi                   276nIi s3                                 U       No  a                    Sil       N      m       -a              IIu,nl  3  4  I   M*    eat       M      '1        S        S    i         4       3
Nor t    eM       .               I*       S      ti      17i    an      amt      AIN   lox        U7       IS       g                                                          I       N      C      111      14      36        I      24              1113    70        S     IV      SBS                5
ini.UiUt                          I       I               I7      S         i      I      N         S       U                                                        IS       UV la    t1    IS?       5        2      177       12     I a     327      5        2       I      I        0        I       6
UltlUitIU  So                      I       II     a lo      5    iN1       n's    0"   ltd,        .7       0:               M       3        IS              a       El       Su       a.    d11      -l       il                I       S1    VS         SI   I'M     i       lId     18             
M   =mime                                 at oflMtr          ml,   Mj         no      .       .jC,0                            o                        1              tini      M774            D        MS    M)1              4   47hZ         IM     W66      11' P6         IS         i      53 53
CllalN                               II      'I      NI     tll      C       Il      111     IS                        N       I                        .i                        I        t     SIN      S      iS        II      III  Oi'        10   lSW        21342 U         ITP        I       S    I
acZti 3UCMIM                                       S 5  Till5                      Ntil    SC3        S       51      6      6       II                       It       I         6i      Ni     179    13        M t I 11 912     it     I      t)'s      5 1  n          M       M1      it                       I
tISLnitorlitm ttIU                 U         I    I        I 5     3               IN       Ytso   la                 I      U       N1       N        I      U       I          i      II             al   O"I         IB                I     aI' 15                  a        m       it      ae              N
Wnioi uotI                                    e  INS         W a     BSat14 oI                "II      I?                                               is                        II    lIt    151    lI         Ia.               a      i       at        S      11      I'N                             Nt
I. SOhINtIS ElmW
IuIIIUUWSM'                       In        I       I    AnU      am         I    Nil    NI          I        S       I      N       a        N1              II      n:         *      a                        a     M                   s       *    ISM      me      inr      ?1
0551                     IN        I       I      i'S     Ill       S      In      371       e       4       4FNpN IP"27                                     a4          S                               I      lt       U       i               3        4        5     lt       S        5       5
a,o m      mI     f toI                           II.      Wi      I        ll      N      26 I N LN                          S       I                                I         N        I      so     HII      N a      a       5        4     ISa      U      ill     15h                    I                   a
SIWS                                      56     C       Va       Ci      W       NP         6       5                                                                  I     SN      112      a       I        m M                     64      547a41           11       i     tC       C         N     i
o m   tto                                   W      I'       tB     IS      I'        )                                                  *       U                                               4M15"   50741 "   IN                            INN    5713         5 I'   150    160   69         7
2445 SIt    0)3IM    166     56       6                                                                                     S       5       I    oP"       toI    *M                 I VW2                471                                       n S P   I. 1)    am
fYeS  cm9                                            am      IUi    51316   Pullt    WI   mmU          SWi      it?                                                               "NI    E         SINu     ml   233    II?"                MI   OM    U           1jNY11     -        P    iP         5     11      1
FEta CUelt                                             S    5    It,  so2  al   au
MS  afeE                                                                      11911    an    1453
M-z
m'Dx



36115 MAI 2. 19
ITAILU COSI ffIII3A S (11000)
iIUIl GMU WZA
91    v41                                                                   PlSICL                                                                  "ICE
P13ICM  -..-3UK  COlI ALI U3 -  --IIIS  COSIT J     64-----                CIIEY   .-.------...CPSING 1--------- -----                            OIIGNCY
KICENT  COUIIN-                                                                                          KC          C       XC        KC        MC          FACTOR
FMtI6N  KIE         LOCAL      FO16        TAL    LCA   FOREIGN    TOTAL            LCAL  FWSM          59        l9        1966      I9        IM3       LOCAL IFT lIP
1. 1111 KI.WUt   StWICIS
t1ilmo oIT  KeO       a o   oo  oo oos 
5N  aSD lW3115M                                      0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       5006                                                          3
CM TIA*L W IAY                            0        10        45         0        45        53         0        53         5         0       100                                                 0         3
NM   IU   01T   v ITm    IWI             40        10       368       244       609       427       210       677        43        25        t0        60        10                            27        12
lTO  IWRY                                10        10       239        27       26        279        27       107        2t         3        10        70        20                            26        I5
SIIE                                     10        10       437        49       416       555        so       56U        51         5        10        70        20                            26        11
BLcthlCtY                                15        t0       315        51       371       3U         57       425        17         6                  h0        40                            11        14
IMt   LIDITIN                            15        10        38         7        45        41         7        52         4         1                  50        50                            33        54
O IllM IWWTXTLIK
NW1                                      40        10         0         0         0         0         0         a         0         0        10        60        30                            27        12
NATI                                     10        10       177        20       157       207        20       227        21         2        t0        70        20                            26        11
sWr.                                     50        50         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        10        70        20                            26        11
DICIRICTY                                is        10         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0                  60        40                            35        14
cOMITY FACILITIES
PIIWT tXIhh                              10        10         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0                   0        30        50        20        5a        20
CLINICS                                  10        t0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0                   0        50        50                   1        214
MUSNIIMISM fiKs,                         10        10       117        13       130       137        13       150        14         1         0        50        50                            33        14
Vm .           IIA  1AMIA                0         10         6         4        10         7         4        11         I         0                  40         0                            314      I5
Ei51    I s1    iS                         0  .     10       504         0       104       121         0       121        12         0        30        30        30        10                  28        5.,
MUAL                                         1645       41S      U23       2154       429      253        215        43
PRICE conLNIIJy             -4IO CTCo6ls-n          -     mu1-5   PR0.CTCiOSS I C              S  ISI---   --A NNU  A L  I N YE SI  l ENI            1211   . ..   -
TAX          lOIAL
LUCAL  FOIM    TOTAL    LACAL                              RAlTE IOIAL    611  IAES   LOCAL   T IN  OINAL    194        9195     19U       "17       5998      IOTAL
__ . ...    .....   ....... .....   .....                                               ....      ....      ----      ....
to SI11 KYELOP1ENT I KIVICIN
LAIII AlJIII0N                                                0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
C141R IWTIPCTM                                                                                                                                                                                  0
CAW5 AL, UMT                             4 *                 4        U          0        U2         0         0        60         0        10        62         0         0         0         0        6
muA I SIIT    EuI1PASME               121        33,      561       5"        36        905        12       109       574       295       839        91       543       272         0         0       905
NAtEIU9I.T                              7Y         3        *2       3"         33       419         6        25       371        32       403        42       293        34         0         0       419
1DS                                    t141        I       t4        705        i1       7"          6        46       677        58       735        77       536       153         0         0       76
EiCi6icTY                              125         3       153       530        71       605         9        54       501        is       577         0       3A1       240         0         0       601
STEE LINTII                             i6         1        17        65         9        74         9         7        63         a        71         0        37        37         0         0        74
WrfITE INATOWNT E
IIS0                                               0                   0         0         0         12        0         0         0         0         O         0         0         0         0         0
UA1                                    59          2        61       266        25       311          6       19       274        24       m          31       217       6U          0          0      311
KO                                       0         0         0         6          0        0         6          0         0        0          0         0        0         0         0         0 
B.EC1USCTV                               0 e       o         e         e                                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Cmum FACILITIES 
pl~um 6 0one0                                                                     0         0                                       0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0 
01611                                         o              e         o         e          o         *         o         0         o         o         o         o        o         o          o 0  *    0
UUZ IIII        LO.III                  4           2       51       9"          17      216          9        19       191        56       207    e            I0        IN6         0         0       215 6 
MT .  NA i I        I                    3         1         3        I0          3        16        12         2        10         5        15         0         6        9         0          0        16
KI        u, I  sMISIs                   37         e                  57I         e       1715        0         o'      1564        0       154        Si        51         I        17         0       1,1
TIEL                      U42        S1      A6        3012       5        3540                 210      2591       507      3399       354      2I53      1017        17         0      35n



MIIl MI 2, 1IM4
MTAILU  11  ES1iM1iS 119000)
HAEI SUI / STWTIMS
OP,SICML                                                                 PRICE
PN1SIC C   ----mu  CUT JLLY 53 ----   --          COST At  51 CONTINCr                          ..............   sINQ I                              COKIUENcY
Flnl     Cllllll-                                                                                            KC          EC      mC        DeC        XC          FACTOR
FOR I   tiY         LOCAL       FORIN   TOTAL    LOCAL  FE16N             TOTAL        LOCAL  F016MI       1I1         9 IM5   196       1797      1M        LA    FOREIt  N
_ ., ,. ._ ._...----....           ... _..    . .... ...... ..                 . ~.. ..  .. ......  .....      ---     .. -----.. .. ..      ---         ---        --,-_-,
Is31. *WLWMNSEIICIN
LA    ACISITIIO                             0          a         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0        100                                                  6         3
wtSE IwFTNlCTM
C     tAs    sO                            0         10        72         0         72        54         0        54          I         0       300                                                   6         3
As    I 5TI     OTO  IAIM                 40         50       620       413      1034        724       424      I48         72        42        10         0        30                             27        12
VATEI SMLT                                10         10       432        41       490        505        4        554         50         5         10        70        20                             26        11
SEOM                                      10         10       6n         75       746        764        77       Ul          75         a        10         70        20                             26        11
LUCTRI3C1                                 Is         10       517        91        60S       603        94       697        60          9                   60        40                             31        14
SU    LI1IN                              I 55       10        77        14         91       10          4        104         9         I                   SO        50                             33        14
CfFIITE IWSTICf
kmi                                       40         10        35        24        59         41        24        4           4         2         10        60        30                             27        12
510                                       t0        10        47         5        53         55         5         61         &         I         to        70        20                             16        11
5m                                        to10       10       123        14       137        1441       14       156         14         1        0         70        20                             26        11
ELECTRIC!!                                15         10         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0                   60        40                             31        14
01l6UI65 FMILITIU
1`11t    SIin.                            10         10       315        35       350       3U          36       404         37         4                    0        30        50         20        so        21
CLINICS                                   10        10        144        I6       160       136         6       1n          17         2                    0        SO        50                   51        24
MNNSI1.ATIW   PJN1                      10        10       207         23       230       242         24       265         24         2         0         50        50                             33        14
IWAIt US.i     TiAL                       10        10         51        34        S5        640        15        H4                    3                   40        60                             34        IS
KIIUN I tIttN                               O        10       207          0       207       241          0       241         24         0        30         30        30        10                    0        12                          1
MAL                                           3519        7        431t      410         112      4921        411        it
PICECONTICE                  -16M.ECTCOT T-IZII-  WAS                        -----                             *-AACT CUT-11-ANN U A L  INUI E I5TN E N1 T Ufl .. -..----
TAX       TOTAL
LL    FOIE1   TOIAL    LOCAL   FUIll              IOTAI    IATEt        TA)      LOCAL   FOrEIGN        OAL       1914     1915      191       197        19        IOIAL
___..... .....                   ....                ....  ----  .....
I.  SITE   WamN  I  IAIIlc3U
LaS NCWisIi3oR                                                                                0              0          0         0         0                         0         o a                  @    0         0     a
DIT5E IFIuTUIAAE
CMASNIAL IU Y                                       7         0         7        9           0        99         0          0        95         0         95        9          0                    0         0        99
AM    I  11111T  MEATE   1I11                    215         55       273      1014        522      1536        12        564       974       501      1475        154       922       411          0         0      MISI
VATENT                                            2t  I    1          41       697         60       757          6        45       669        55        727        76        130      ISI          0         0       757
SumW                                             220          t       229      I6           931     1176          6        71      1039        90       1129       1         623       215          0         0      176
O.ITRICTI                                         204        14       213       US         117       sn           9        6f       033        112       945         0       591       3M4          0         0       n5
ST LISIIThIIO                                     32         2        35        32V        Is       149          9        13       126         17       143         0         75        75         0         0        149
WFSITE IWSTIUTCTE
no                                                 12         3        156        5         30        iS         12        11        56        29         64         9        53         26         0         0        as
WATEU                                              15         1         56        76         7        63          6         5        73          6        79         1        50         17         0         0         e3
tVA K                                              10         2        42        5"         17       215          6        13       190         16       207        22       151         43         0         0       215
ESflhllCl                                           0         *         0          0         0         0          9         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         o         0          0
C11UIITT FACLIT11S                                                                                                                                                                                                                          f-
PN11        O W U236                                         II       241        64         51       692          9        62       635        49        164         0         0       206        346       138       192
CLINICS                                            94         4                 279         22       301          9        27       26S        22        219         0         0        51       51         0       301 51 
A6NIIT1lTINK1KM                                   37          4        90       332         30       362          9        34       336        29        367         0       191        191         0         0       362
NW$ "  1151W 23                                              &        21         U         44    In             12         6 Ua                431   127            0        53    79              0         0    132
KIUSI        R a  ISIUO                             74         0        74       340          0       340          0         0       326          0       326       102       302        302        34         0        340
TOTAL                             1405        117      15522    s52         5031      6934                  570      549        971       6451       587      354       2132        53        138      6936



ZEtl My 21 ITU
DEAIES C10 51tl1ES 11 isV0001
WAll NI
POUIl                                                                          PHYSICAL                                                                 PRICE
P1SICL ----USC COS  AY 93  --                Al U T 6        94---           CONTIIECY           .               FIASING I---                         COITIGTWNC
mmi     CPIIF-                                                                                               MtC       XC        XC        MEC         Ct          ALIOR
FmGIH   BMW    LOCLA            fraIU    TOITL    LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOIL               LOA    Ff16S    I514           1965      1986      I197       198I      LOCAL  FOREIGN
_._~~~~~~~ .__ ---    -----                         . ..___.                    _ ............ ..    ..........  ....... .... .... .....  .....  .......    ....  ....  .. ......
1.  1111 IEWLOFW     I   IVICIN
LMS A 51SIZON                               0         0       105          0       105       105          0       105         0         0        500                                                  1          I
C Asn5l     m                                        10       123         0        123       143         0       143         14         0       100                                                   B          3
MM   I 3TWI HATME  DIA                    40         10      1164       776      1940       1359       797      2156        136        s0         10        60        30                             27        12
lTtEUI LWR                                 10                 701        79        78        826        11       907         83         a         la        70        20                             26         11
S     E                                   to10       10      1442       160      1602       163        U14     1141        168       1          10        70        20                             26        1i
lEOiC                                     IS         1   0    1165 1S            1041       1013       560      1114        103        16                   60        40                             31        14
1I'M   LIW1INB                            IS         10       144        25        169       161        26        194        17         3                   S0        50                             33        14
hFSIR IW*ICM
m                                         40         .0       i7n       113       296        207       122       329         21        12         10        60        30                             27        12
HAITE                                     10         10      1164       129       1293      1359       133      1492        136        13         10        70        20                             26         11
S    i                                    to10       10       900       100      1000       1051       101      1154        105        10        10         70        20                             26        11
ELECIIICTl                                15         10         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0                  60         40                             31        14
u101UIT  FACILIYEs
pII UIZ  lS.3                             10         10       630        10       700        736        72       801         74         7                    0        30        50         20        Sl        21
CLINI0                                   10         10       144        56        160       51         16       535         17         2                    0        S0        50                   51        24
A8NIMISTRAI1IdCULD,to 10                             10       504        56       560       SN          57       646         59         6         0         50        50                             33        14
lltdE   T.IU IUL                          40         10'       51        34         15        60        35        94          6         3                   40        60                             34        IS
elfi   I U U  JIBIU0                         0        10       515         0        515       601         0       601        60                   30         30        30        10                   3         152
MTTL                                           USM       1720    50376       INN        57       I17 P4       991       177                                                                                                   Cs
VIICE CSINIC                 --l-4 tN U SClls-111 -                              . P- ACI COSTSIA I IIIS-  --A N N U A L I N  E S I  EIT I1 1s) ..-  -   -.
TAX       101.L
LU .L  F13N    1T0L    LOWL   F IWI                0I1i.L   MIE        TAXI    LOCWL   FmIU           101AL    J914        15        196       j917       IMa       tOl.L
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                     _... ..   ..... . . ----   . ......... ...._.....  ..._ ........ .. ...  ....    ..  . 
Is SITE KEWLOPEMI 8IERYICIN
LAW  AM ISlIIO*                                                 0       135          0       105         0          0       10         0        101       105         0          0         0         0        105
O11t1  tIWl ICI1K
CMA1I  IAB                               12         0         12       169         0        169         0         0        163         0       163        169         0         0          0         0       169
mm   I Rom  UiU  3* 3m                  36        IN4       513       104        93        24          12       34        1621       941      2769        2        1731       665          0         0      2064
HATER  IIY                              m          10        242      1141        of       1240         6        74       1096        95      1190        124        U1       241          0         0      1240
S    I                                  *n471      20       493       2325       201      2525          6       152      2232        193      2424       253       1761       505          0         0      2525
EllJIMI3 m                                        24       373       146        200       1666                 152       1427       192      1619          0      1012       675          0         0      156
sItu     LIUIlIUD                        sO         4        U4        245        33       277          9        25       235         31       2U           O       I0 I      139         0          0       277
111E ItlWlCUK
U62       II        7         291       150       440         12        53       279        144       423        44        264       132         0          0       440
312        56       ns        t"         562      2039          6       122      1102        56       1957       204       1427       406         0          0      2019
m     m                                25          12       30        1451       125      1577          6        95       3IJI       120      1513       150       104       315         0          0      1577
aCIUicTI                                            6                   6         0          0         9         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
CouSlIT FAIIWIES
Film1    3U                             473        22       495       1212       101      1383          t       125      1231         97      1323         0          0       455       62        277       183 
C0USd                                    94         4        n         27         22       501          t        27       24          22       21           0         e    151          151          0       30
AIIIIIITl UIWU      1UU1                 151        9       22e         I         n        93e          9        64       824        6t9       69          0        465       465         0         0        93                             w
NA1t.1        ii    .WL                  23         6        21         U         44       132         12        16        S5         43       127         0         53        79         0          0       132
KIlUII I    IIIlIU                       5          14  0    16          45         0       545          0         0       oil          0       o15       253        253       253        84          0       645
TUTUL                   -:          247    1 7    1434            213      563                   5270    53772        2102    55874       155        90631     450        927       277      16535



MiII MY 2. 20                                                                                                               IETAII CE ST ElhlMTU E1  '0001
KUWM                                                                           PH4Y1CAL                                                                 PRICE
mICA. --- s  Cost  ut  u  ---             --NgCI AK  14-----                 COI                  -------- ---  SI   s--------               ---     eo nwiS
PERET  COulI-                                                                                                KC    NC    KC    KC    NC                           FACTEr
fOmEIu      I  O    LtM         F134    10TAL    LOC    FtOIEN    TOTA.                LIXAt  FORI         2 14       IM        1916      1917       1M        LOCAL  FP5113
1. UIE Wm1a1111 I UNnci
Lisa MIIllm                                  I         0         0         6          0         0         0          0         0         0        100                                                            3
CTliL WJEI                                 0         10        33         0        33         36         0        36          4         0       200                                                   *         3
RIOM  a mm  mIli                          40         10       277       1,        462        324       190       513         32        19        10         60        30                             27        12
WTI  WtY                                 t10         10       112        20       202        212        21       23          21         2         10        70        20                             26         it
loom                                      10         20       236        26       244        277        27       344         21         3        20         70        20                             26        11
OUJICIT                                   I1         10       310        55       3U5          2        56        45         36         6                   60        40                             31        14
11 lL    INSIll                           I5         10        37         7        44         43         7         50         4         1                   54        50                             33        14
NM                                        40         10       194       129       324        227       133        60         23        13         10        64        30                             27        22
VATO                                      10         10         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         10        70        20                             26        11
=111ANE                                   10         10         0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0        20         70        20                             26        It
EICU ICTY                                 I5         10       124        22       145        144        22       167         14         2                  60         40                             31        14
1Wu121   FACILITIEI 
NIr        tI IkS                         1o        10        32         35       350         6         3        404         37         4                    0        30        50        20         so        28
LINICS                                    10        20        360        40       400        420        41       462         42         4                    0        S0        50                   Sl        24
UNUIITIITINiISle                          10        I0        504        5        560        5          57       64          59         6         0        50         50                             33        14
ET. PA  TlI.I                             40         10        12         o        20         14         1        22          1         1                   0         6o                             34        15
KUM  I IIPEVIIIoII                          0         to       253         0                  25                  25          29         0        3s         30       3s         16                   26        12
IWZ                                            337        36       346        3313       5        391         331        64
P12CUIcm  2ufilml C011111S4t e-   am                                         -PI0eCICOSIIIIS)1---  -A N N U i L I I N    I IETINI 01 12l1-
1TA       TOTAL
LWUt P511          TOTAL    teeAL   rOl[M    lTEAL          UATE        TA/U     LOI.   FOI3           TOT        293       19 M9 I6            217        29I6      TOTAL
1s UT KNOWUI I MVICIE
Ln A ItUIilE                                                     0          *0                             0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0
CflMIT W.IA    M                           3          6         3        45          0        45         0          0        43         0         43        a          0          0         0         0        45
M          1 1S *11 MT  M                 97        25        122       453        233       6U7        12          2       435       224       659         i9       412       206          0         0       467
*Tta nU9                                  d0          2        62       23          25       3ts         6         19       261        24        30         32       223         64         0         0       312
lEWlilE                                   71          3        31       33          33       416         6         25       3u         32      S3           42       291        33          0         0       416
ttTUICIT                                 22           U       1231                  70       59          9         53       500        67       567          0       254       236          0         0       590
IT1ILIIITIUIN                             2t                   27        63          I        72         9          I         2         5        69          0        36        36          0         0        72
5llTE IUIlltNIC
mmS                                       66        17                  311       164        4I         22        56        m         157       462         46       21         44          0         0       46
3610                                       I         6                                                   6         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
mom                             I~~~~0     6         6                              0         6         0          6         0          0         0         0.        I          0         6         0
rU I2CII                                  49         3        52        23        23         236         9        21        In9        27       226         0        142        94         0          0       236
nRi         IUI                          236        11       246   U     4l        51      692           9        62      6U5          49       664         0          0       206       34         2         692
C0 N1                                    223        21       24        697         56       753          9        a                    54       723         0                  376       376          0       75
U11111 SWUJU .                           na          9       220        I          72       93           9        34        24         69       693          0      465        445         0          0       930
IT , 1111U1 IllM                           I         I          7        21        10        32         n          4        20         10        30         0         12        It         0          0        31
WIN     t 1Si*                             IS         6                  425         0       425          0         0 o     36           0       3Jn       124        124       224        41          0       425
tetiL                    Im           93      II34      414         75n       56                   462      472l        721      5439       360      2346       26         74         236      5U6



5NMIMY 2, 1m04
KITAILEI COST UIUMlTES (II000)
MLAT05 K1IA 7
I                                                                             PFHIIUCL                                                                  MICE
AItSICAL ----SUKE COST ALN  63 -.A.              C. T        3  -- S-  CK4...NlCI                ...-.I. SIAS   I .........                     C.... E    lIEKY
KWMNT  COUT1N-                                                                                              IC         KC        XC        DEC       XC           FACIT
FOMIN   cMY         LOCAL       FOEIN    TOITAL    LOC     FOIM           TOTAL       LOCAL  FIR6          114        1985      196       197       I98       LOCAL  FOtEIGA
.... __ __ .............. .. ... _. _... ....-..--...   .......... ......                     .. ..     .... .    ......    .. ....    ....      .. ....   .. .....
A.  ITE KVlWIIT  I  EVICIN
LAN AMIS ITIUo                              0          0         0         0          0         0         0         b          0         0       100                                                   S         3
MUITE INFNiTIK
CA1TIs r       E                           0        10         76         0        76                    0 o9                           0       100                                                  S         3
WOAa STIS  HATER  RAIM                    40        10      5s          39        993       699        410      1100        70        41         10        60        30                             27        12
WATERU DY                                 10        10       324         3        360       379         37       415        38          4        10        70        20                             26         11
SEIM                                      10        10       327         36       364      3I2          37       419        38          4        10        70        20                             26        11
ILECTIUCTI                                is        10       48          U        572       S67         B        655        57          9                  60        40                             31        14
STKI LIBRINtI                             15        10        69         12        II        DI         13        93         I          I                  SO        50                             33        14
P13I5E ImMlUTllM
ANM                                       40        10       261       11i7       468       320        192       520        32        19         10        60        30                             27        12
VATE7                                     10        10          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0        10        70        20                             26        11
SlkEi                                     10        10          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         to        70        20                             26        11
ELiCThICTY                                Is        10      1017        179      1196      1107        164      1371       119         IS                  60        40                             31        14
CSUMITI FACILITIES
FIWT SOLS                                 10        10       315         35       350       3U1         36       404        37          4                   0        so        50         20        58        23
CLINICS                                   10        10          0         0         0         0          0         0         0          0                   0        50        50                   51        24
AIUNISTMIIUATMM                           10        10         72         I        s0        34          I        92         S          I         0        50        50                            I3         14
1T  .        TU11  AL.                    *0        I          IS        12        30        21         12        33         2          a                  40        60                             34        15
IwIInI a s      IIIIN                       I         10       42U         0       42        500          0       500        50          0        30        30         30        10                  25         12
TOTAL                                          4012       991      54        414        1017      5702       461        102                                                                                        1
0%
Ln
PRICE ClI CY                --PROJECT COSMS-          -       S--             ---MOECT COSS (USII  -           -A t N  U A L  I NV E S T n E N1 1 (Qs-- ---------
TAX       TOTAL
LOAL  FORI6N   TOTAL    LOCAL  FlEI               TOTAL    RATE         TAES R LOAL   Fr16m            IOTAL     11        195        10        1917      1936    IONL
_ ,, __ ,,,_, .....    ..... . . .. .._ .... ..........    ......    ....    . ... _ ......   ... .                . .....  ....  ....  ....      ....
1   *ITE   YELOWN    I SIVICII
LANUA ISITION                                                 0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
ISUITE lwPl.TICIIUIE
CMASTU.L S W                             3        0          5 2     1O5         0        105         0         0        101         0       101       105          0         0         0          0      105
No NI STORM 11UAT        1 m          210        53       264        979       504      1433         12       171       940        454      1424       548       I9"        445         0         0      1403
WATER SLFLY                           106         4        III       523        45       568          6        34       502         43       545        57       397        114         0         0       568
SEIE                                  107         4        112       526        46       573          6        34       507         44       S50        57       401        115         0         0       573
ELICTicT                              192        13       205        I6        110.      926          9        t3       712        105       C89         0       555        370         0         0       926
STlMT LICHTINI                         29         2        31        III        56       134          9        12       113         15       129         0        67         67         0         0       1314
WFFSITI IWRASXTNREf
no9                                              25       124        459       237       696         12        14       441       227       668         70       413       209          0         0       696
IIATEA                                  0         0          0         0         0         0          6         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         000
-ku                                     0         0         0          0         0         0          6         0         0         0          0         0         0          0         000
ICtIICTY                              402        27       429  1 70            234      1934          9       174      1639       221       IUO          0      1163       775          0         0      1938
CIN1.1ITT  FACILITIES
mi1n  ICNOOL#                        236         11       248       641         51       692         9         62        15        49       664          0         0        05       34         IIS 1     692
CLIIICS                                 0         0         0          0         0         0         9          0         0                   0         0         0         0         0          0         0
AN135111AII   IL 5.      1        0         1        31          3  12    I        113          9        12       III         10       123         0        60                              0       133                    - 
1I,    Km TTII.                        3          2        10        31         16        47        12          6        30        15        45          0        19        23         0          0        47                   0
Klo  I SI ISIUN                       153          0       153       703          0       703         0          0       675         0       675       211        211       211         70         0       703
TOtAL                 ISI0        144      1725      6733      12U4       797                  6n       6464       1213      7677       64        41S7      2607       416        11       7m7



MAIEI MY 2.59UI
DETAILED COSt EITIMTES IIS'000)
ILAATOS1 WITA 9
PEINtO                                                                       PHYSICAL                                                                PRICE
PITSICAL ---- MASE COST JIL    3      -ANE COST            64-----          COTIENCT           .- PHSIG  -----------------                        CONINGECt
POtNIT  COcli-                                                                                            DEC       DEC       XC        XC        DEC          FACTOR
FOi16N   UtSC       LOCAH      raoRi6    TOTAL    LOCHL  FOREIGN         TGTAL       LOCAL  FaEIGN    1994         1965      1916      19t7      1989      LOCAL  FOREIGN
_ __ _ __~~-----    . ....    .....  .......                      --         ....        ... ....    ....  . _,.....  ... ..    . ...    .. ..      ---    -----
I. SIIE 3EHLOPtl I SKE3ICI1
LA    ACUISITIM                             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       100                                                  8         3
O&SITE IIf fSt"CTLE
CAISTALTSWE                               0         20       61          0        65        71         0        71         7         0       100                                                  9         3
RCAS  I      WM  WAiTER OAIMA E          40         10      478       359        796       558       32)       1B5        56        33        10        10        30                             27        12
WATER  MSLY                              50         10      259        29       297        302        29       331        30         3        t0        70        20                            26         11
EoSm                                     10        10       262        29        291       306        30       314        35         3        10        70        20                            26         11
ELECIICTY                                IS         10       334        to       454       153        70       523        45         7                  60         40                            31        14
STIRT LIITIUS                            i5        10        56         10        65        65        10        75         6         1                  50        50                            33         14
OritF!T IIMTAETLRE
kWI                                      40        t0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0        10        60        30                            27         12
WATER                                    10        10         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0        10        70        20                             26        11
SE5E                                     10        10        53          6        59        62         6        68         6         1        10        70        20                            26         11
ELECIRICIY                               15        t0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0                  60        40                             31        14
CtIOIITT FACILITIES
PRIWTSC  OLS                             10        10       315        35       350       368         16       404        37         4                   0        30        50        20        59        29
CLINICS                                  10        10         0         0         0         0          0       '0          0         0                   0        50        50                  51        24
ADMINISTRATIVE  MS .                     10        10        72         B        SO         84         9        92         a         I         0        50        50                            33         14                       1
WIET. IUS TEkiaN                         40        10        12         B        20         14         9        22         1         1                  40        60                            314        5
DS1m6  a smuSow                            0        10       219          0      219       256          0       256        26         0        30        30        30        10                  29         12                      0
TOTAL                                         2174       511      2685      2538       525      3063       254        53                                                                                              C'
PRICE CATINECY-T ---fECt  COSTS-(Z--    OMSS                               -----PROJCT COSTS IUSII---   --A N N          U  A L  I NV E    1 TI    E  ( I US)-- ---------
TAX       TOTAL
LOAL  FORE160 TOTAL    LOC            FORKISG   IOTL    RATE          TAILS   LOCAL   FOaIGN         TOTAL    1914       5995      1996      1997      1959      TOTAL
...*__.      .....    --    .---- .....   ----                 ---    ---    ... . ...                ----       ---       ---       ----       ---      .... ...
1.  SITE XULOPMENT I SEVICIS
LHD ACQUISITION                                             0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
OiSItE IEWTIRUCTLE
CADASTRL SUMET                         6         0         6        B4         0        94         0         0        DI          0       9l         64         0         0         0         0        94
ROADS I S9O5 l MATER DRAIWE          168        4i       *i1       7B1       402      114        12       142       750       396       11536     1i         710       355         0         0      1154
WAtER SULY                            t5         4        ea       417        36       453         6        27       400         35       435        45       317        91         0         0       453
SE EW                                  6         4        of9      422        36       459         1        2B       405         35      440         46       321        92         0         0       459
UECTRICTT                            153        10       164      6U1         B        739         9        66       625        94        709         0       443       295         0         0       739
STRKEI LICHTIM1                       23         2        25        n         13       107         9        10        91         12       103         0        54        54         0         0       107                        F >
OrFuITE IWUSTUEB                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Z
RWS                                    0         0         0         0         0         0        17         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
WATER                                  0         O         O         O         0         0         6         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0                        m
SEVEIS                                17         1         s3       85         7        93         6         6         82         7        B9         9        65        19         0         0        93
fLECTIICTT                             0         0         0         0         0         0         9         0          0                  0         0         0         0         0                                             A
P93W? SCHOLS                        236         11       24U       641        51       692         9        62       655         49       664         0         0       209       346       139       692
CLINICS                                0         0         0         0         0         0         9         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
AIINISTNATIW  KM                      30         1        31       123        10       133         9         12       158        10       123         0        66        66         0         0       133
MAMET        M TS lf .I L             5         1         7        21        10        31        12         4         20        10        30         0        12        19         0         0        31
KSIB  I SUPM ISIU5                     7B         0        78       360         0       360         0          0      346          0       346       lot       1O0       10        36         0        0o
TOTL                  N?9        76       965      340        654      4334                  356      3533       625      4161       411      2097      1306       3U        538      4334



SAIEI MT 291 M
K1AILUO COST ESTITE 7 1'000)
IJTMKIKEWUIME
KRIT                                                                       FYTSICAL                                                              PRICE
PIHSICL ---BAE  COST AY 13----   --   SI A     84----                     COIUEJCT           ..-......HZSIS  2-------- ----                    COmINGENCY
PERCNI  CONIIN-                                                                                         DEC      KC        KC        DEC       KC          FACTOR
FOI1 EGN          LOrA       FOREGN   TOTAL    LOCAL  fOREIGN    lOTIA            LOMAL  FIU    1984          915       196       1997      1M       LOCAL  FOREI1N
1. 51TT SEWELOPII I SEN1CIH
LMU AUISITIOI                            0         0         0         .        0         0        0         0         0         0       t0o                                                a         3
ONSITE IWRASTRICtME
CAIASTM"W       y                        0        1o       114         0      114       133         0       133        13         0      100                                                 Q        3
R0M1I STWX 1S    TER DRAII              40        10       404       269       673       171      276       747        47        2B        10       60        30                            27        12
MTEA S LI                               10        t0       434        41       483      507        50       557        51         5        10       70        20                            26        Is
SEIEIU6E                                10        10       44         54      537       565        55       620        56         1        10       70        20                            24       11
ELECTIICTY                              15        10       141       14 U       89 91 "2          152      1134        95        I5                 60        40                            31        14
1TlET LlIIISi                           15        10       10o        19      12Q       127        20       147        13         2                 50        50                            33       14
OFFSITT  IEW TlUCtIM
No0S                                    40        10       99       133      332       233       136       369        23        14        10       60        30                            27       12
AIER                                    10        10      1020       113     1134      1191       116      1307       119        12        10       70        20                            26       11
SEIUE                                    e10      10       144        16      160       168        16       155        17         2       10        70        20                           26        11
ElUTTICIC                               15        10       153        27      ISO       179        2C       206        le         3                 60        40                           31        14
CW3IUf FALILIIIEU
PoIWT  2I..                             10        0       315        35      350       36         36       404        37         4                  0        20        50        20       54        21
CLINICS                                 10        10        99        11       110      116        11       127        12         I                  0        50        50                 51        24
MINISTRTIWE 3 .                         10        0        1"        22      220       231        23       254        23         2        0        50        50                           33        14
IAEi   KIUSa TOIWN.                     40        10        12         5        20       14 1                22         I         1                 40        60                           34        5
KS161 I   RMI2 I                        0        10       4"          0       498      582         0       52        5S          0       30        30        30        10                 28        12
1311.                                        5024      904      5928      5U5        9        693       57         93 
PRCECUIICE IIEIICI         --ONCTCOSITS-IZTI-'   11ROS                   -----ROJECT COSTS IUSI--   --A N N U A L  I N VY E    T 1 E N T (zo)-- --------
TAI      TOIAL
LIIUL  FOl N   TOTAL    LOCL   FOREG1   TOTAL    RATE                TAXES   LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL    1914         15       16"    19117       919       TOTAL
-- .~~~~~~~~. . ..                      -._ .....   .. ...._. _.... ..       ....._ .. ...  ......  ... ..           . ._..._.....
1.  SITE RtELOPIUI I SERJICIN
LAD  OUISITIOI                                              0       .                                                       0         0         0        0         0         0         0
SIRTE IWIMUICTUK
CAJISTML   IEI 2                                0        11       25          0      55         0         0       152         0       152      S1O         0         0         0         0      iSI
RWS I SIOIm1I OAURAIWK               142        36       175      "0        340      1000        12       120       614       326      910       100       600       300         0        0      1000
MATER S"LK                           142         4       14      740        60       711         6        46      672        53       730        7        533       152        0         0       761
SflOWt                               159         7       265      710        67       S47         6        51      749        65       013        S5       593      19         0         0       147
ELICTRICTT                           332        23      355      1412       90      1602         9       144     1356      13       1538         0       962      641         0         0      602
STI[E  L16TIH                         45        3        49       15        25       210         9        19      IIS        24       201         0       05      105         0         0       210
OWillIE IWRATIICI1M
ROADS6                                70        IS       so       326      16        494        12       59       313       61       474        49       2916     143         0         0       494
WVAER                               335        14       349      1645       42      1757         6       107     1579       136      1715       79      1251      357         0         0      1787
Kilu                                 47         2        49       232        20       252         6       15       223        19       242        25      177        50         a         0       252
EECAUICIT                            60         4        is       257        35       m           9       26       247        33       230         0      7        27         0         0       292 
CUWIIY PICILIIIEI                                                                                                                                            7        10                   0       22 
FillRI SClWOLS                     220        10       234       624        50       674        9        6       59         48       647         0        0       135       337       135      607                                       X
CLINICS                              i5         3        63       92        15      207         9        t      14         IS       I9         0         0       104       104         0      207
IINISIRAIWIYE lISS                   U3         4         6      137        29       366         9        33       324        27       351                 133     153         0         0      366
NI TsIUS tEIMNA                       5         1         7        2        10        31       12         4        20        10        30        0        12        1t         0         0        31
SIIII I US    II oN                  175         0       178       121         0      U1S         0         0       785         0       735      245       245       245        32        0       all
TOTAL                 394       131     2025      U4        1151      94"                  703      1oi3     I05      911*       917      5131     2m         522       135      9430



MIII MI 2. 1914
NTAZLU cUT LIIATIBtf U6WOoo
PEKCEIT                                                                    PHYSICAL                                                              PRICE
P lSICAL ---SA   COST JLY1 3---   --U          CS T AK    4----                              ..C..I.I. ------- -S-I   ---        --            CON_iIIU
POW? E     ONTIN-                                                                                      XC        xC        xC         EC       xC          FACIlt
Fm16N  OM          L1A        FOPEON   TOTAL    LOCAL  TM26N           TOTAL       LAL  FIM            12914    1985      19t1      51"7      IM       LOA   FOEr1
._,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                                                             ----    ---         _-__-__-  .   .....  .. .....
1.  11E   I W           I SI iciN
LMI AUIIITIN                              0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0       500                                                8         3
OIl! IWWIUTIMTF
CMMThALEt                                0        10        20         0       21        33         0        33         3         0       100                                                8        3
mmIS  1T5        MIER2  AIWiE           40        10       230       155      396       277       IU3       440        21        Id        10       60        30                            27       12
NATEIR  ipLy                            10        10       177        20      197       207        20       227        21         2        10       70        20                           26        It
sWAK                                    10        10       157        21      200       21         21       240        22         2        10       70        20                           26        11
EUCTRICTY                               25        10         4         1        5         5         I         6         I         0                 60        40                           31        14
$TO I LISAIl                            15        10         4         1        5         5         1         6         0         0                 50        50                           33        14
OrrFInE sWmtNiu
mOmS                                    40        10         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        10       60        30                            27        12
MiNtE                                   10        10       375        42      417       438        43       481        44         4        10        70       20                            26        11
KVMAK                                   10        10         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        10       70        20                            26        11
ELEttIICTl                              IS        10         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0                 60        40                            1t       14
OllITY FAClLITIES
R1WTY SC1 10                                      50       153        IS       175      184        18       202        lo         2                  0        30        SO        20        58       28
CINICS                                  10        10        45         5        50       53         5        58         5         1                  0        50        50                  51       24
AUEIBIMI     l I U.                    10        10       135        IS      ISO       15        15       173        16         2        0        SO        50                            33       14
1118UlTM1W                              40        so         6         4        10         7        4        1I         1         0                 40        60                            34       15
KSI    I IE  I61O                        0        10       142         0       142      565         0       265        17         0        30       30        30        10                  28       12                                 1
TOTAL                                        14"       2M       1713      1750       291      2042       175       29
00
NICE C OITU IY             -      .ECTC    STS-(Zsl--    MOSS            -----AJECI   STS          -N  U A L         E S    T 9 E N I (1-- ---------
TAX      TOTAL
LEA     FRIoi     TOTAL    LWOCA    FOOIOI   TOTAL    RATE           TAIXS   LOAL   FIVIIH        TOTAL   15114       IM1       196       1917     19Y       lOTAL
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                                                         .... __.--.___..---.. .. ..
1 l     N1E;            I SEV4CIE
LAO  AMISI1TION                                             0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0
WiII IWIUiT1RE
C    TIMY     9NE1MY                   3         0         3       39         0        39         0         0        38        0        35        39         0         0         0        0        39
MM  I HST AITERE AtME                 83       21       105       389       200       58S        12        71       373      192       565        59       353       177        0         0       589
*ATO NYl                              58         2       61       29J        25       311         6        19      27n        24       m          31       217       62         0         0       311
u f4                                  65        3        64       301        26       327         6       20       289        25       314        33       229       65         0         0       327
DICTUICTI                              2        0         2         7         1         9         9         1         7        I         I         0         5         3        0         0         9
ITE!T LIW1IN                          2         0         2         7         1         9         9         1        7         1         5         0         4         4        0         0         a
orrirElrSt INetuE
Am^                                   0         0         0         0         0         0        12        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
IAtE                                122         5       521       605        52      6s7         6        39       581        5        631        66      460       131         0         0      657
KOM                          0~~~~~*                      0         0         0         6         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
DJC iTRIT                             I                             0         0         0         t        0         0         0         o         0         0        0         0         0         0                                  r
CemUTT rFe2L5T
PSII UIt    l                       I2I         6       124       321        25      346         9        32       308        24       332         0        0       104       173        69       346
CLINIS                               29         1        31        *7         7       94         9         I        54         7        90         0        0        47        47         0        94
UIUISTIATIE ILK.                     56         2        5        230        19      24          9        22       221        19      239         0       125       125         0         0      249
VAMPw PAG trMWL                       I         1         3       40         5         I        122        2        10         5        I5        0         e         9         I         0        la
111I:I11       IIIUm                  51         0        51      232         0       232         0         0       223         0      223        70        70        70        23         0      232
ISAL                    I"        42 U      13     2515       362      2177                 214     2455       347      2762       297      1470       79       243        69      217



- 69- -NRI 4
Page 1 of 4
ALOCWTION AND DISBURSMIENT PROCEDURES FOR BUILDING SOCIETY LOANS
1.        The Allocation Process
(a) Allocation of plots to beneficiaries will be from Local
Authorities' waiting lists.
(b) There will be an upper limtt, probably an income of $400 per
month by the head of household. There will be no pre-determined
lower limit.
(c) Other Local Authority criteria as to employment and ownership of
property will be met.
(d) It will be a condition of the project that allocation will not be
made to families who do not either have the resources or have the
income with which to borrow the resources to construct a minimum
acceptable house.
(e) Subject to the above the allocation will generally follow the
income profile of the people on the waiting list. In 1984
values, according to the waiting lists of the project towns, 70%
of allottees will be below Z$200 per month.
(f) For those who want loans the allocation will be made subject to
approval by the Building Society.
(g) Information given to the Local Authority by the applicant will be
passed to the Building Society together with the plan of the
house he intends to build or have built.
2.        The Amount of the Loan
(a) The minimum acceptable house will be that which is acceptable to
Government's housing policy- and which is also acceptable to the
Building Society as security for a long-term loan.
(b) As this is a progressive process, the first minimum phase (the
minimum acceptable unit) will be one habitable room and ablution
facility (estimated) to-be not smaller than 15m2.
(c)  Subject to the above the amount of the loan will be based on
ability to pay, assuming that approximately 252 of income may be
spent on housing related expenditure and assuming that repayments
are over 25 years with a variable interest rate set at the
prevailing building society minimum interest rate (presently
12.5%).
(d) Any additional resources that the applicant can show to be
available to him will be taken into account in considering the
size of the house and the amount of the loan. Consideration will
also be given to rental income in estimation affordability of the
l on .



- 70 -
ANNU 4
Page 2 of 4
(e) Both the construction costs and the income profile figures will
be those applicable at the time the allocation procedures are
made.
3.        Legal Conditions  .d Legal Costs
(a) It is proposed that a title to the stand be issued to the
applicant, conveyed to the borrower and bonded to the Building
Society. These were disbursement procedures (allocation
procedures, legal conditions and costs) discussed by CDC,
Government, the Building Societies and the Bank, and modified
further by the Bank for discussions at negotiations.
(b) Traditionally the cost of the site and its services are recovered
as to one third (approximately) from plot sales and two thirds
from charges for municipal services. To simplify collections, to
give the Building Society an unencumbered security and to enable
the Local Authority to recover part of its capital investment it
is proposed that this one third (presently estimated at about
$600) should be included in the amount of the loan and paid to
the Local Authority.
(c) For the conveyance of a stand worth $600 followed by a bond
(mortgage) of $4,600 the legal fees have been identified as
follows:
(i)  Conveyance Legal fees                             $72.00
Stamp duty                              3.00
Registration                            5.00
$80.00
(ii)  Bond Legal fees                   $90.00
Stamp duty                    11.50
Registration                   5.00
$106.00
TOTAL                  $186.50
*,This is a large sum to be found by a low-income purchaser and
"discussions have begun on the possibility of reducing the -legal
fees" elements in the above calculations to $25 in each case.
This would reduce the total costs to $74.50.
It was agreed that whatever "front end fees' were agreed would
have to be found in advance in cash.
(d) Alternatively it has been suggested that legal costs might be
reduced or eliminated if an alternative form of security (such as
an -agreement to issue title by the Local Authority) could be
accepted. An enquiry into the practicality of such an
alternative is requested.



- 71 -                          AhIEl 4
Page 3 of 4
4.        Deposit and Guarantee
(a) It is proposed that the guarantee provision of the Housing and
Building Act should apply to all loans made from the fund, and
that the loans will be 90% of the Building Societies' estimate of
value on completion (of the house of its first stage) which
should be not less than the cost of construction and plot
charges.
(b) It is understood that with a 90% loan the provision of the Act
guarantee the Building Societies against a loss on the top 30% in
the case of a civil servant and on the top 20% in all other
cases. Civil servants are not required to make a cash down
payment of 10%.
(c) To reduce the amount of cash required by a purchaser (that is
deposit plus front and fees) it was agreed that 95% loans could
be made and a deposit of 5% only accepted (this is subject to
legal advice on the guarantee provisions of the Housing and
Building Act).
5.        Control of Construction Advances and Repayments
(a)  It is intended that the following methods of construction should
be permitted under the project:
(i) The purchase of materials and the applicants' own labour
(including family, friends and assistance "in kind");
(ii) The purchase of materials and a contract for labor; and
(iii) The use of a small and/or "informal contractor.
(b) For the first two of the methods the supply of materials from a
local authority store on site will be available, though the
beneficiary may acquire materials elsewhere (including
second-hand materials subject to being of satisfactory quality).
(c) The Local Authorities approve plans together with minimum
specifications and standards and will provide Building Inspectors
and Building Demonstrators for the applicants who are building
under methods (i) and (ii) above.
(d) The applicants' 10% or 5% will be deposited with the Building
Society and used for his initial construction. The Building
Society will make inspections and give releases against
satisfactorily completed construction. It is understood that a
fee of $50 will cover six inspections with $15 for each
additional inspection.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
(e) Building Society practice is that interest will start to accrue
on a loan from the end of the fourth month after the date of the
acceptance of the offer of a mortgage advance. Normally
repayments will begin at the end of the fifth month but an
extension of one or two months is usually given in cases of
hardship.
6.        Default Procedures
(a) Standard procedures on default are proposed. The provisions of
the Housing and Building Act will apply, the preferred action
being that Government would repay the oustanding debt to the
Building Society and take possession of the property for resale
to an acceptable applicant on the Local Authorities' waiting
list.
(b) The borrower shall have the right to sell his title and
obligations to anyone acceptable to the Local Authorities.
7.        It was proposed that there should be a review period after the
first year of operation and that (to conserve its resources) no additional
loans for extensions should be made before the review period.



PHASING OF TRAINING COURSES
Year I                    Year 2                    Year 3
Course                    l
Housing - (Site Staff) (30)            &   4                                         m      A l    ;    An
Housing - (Project Man)                ._ __w
Mechanics - Auto (16)                                                            L   L
Mechanics - Plant (12) Auto (4)        _  _   _
Mechanical Staff (12)
Water and Sewerage (10)
Accountants (12)                       _        am
Accounting Technicians (12)            _  _        ___    _   _    -             ___    .  a             .
Instructor Training                             low



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
raeFof 2
of Attachment 1
To Schedule 1
References should be made to Schedule I which shows phasing of
Courses.
Co-munity Services/Housing.  The assumptions are that each training group
will contain 10 people. There are a predicted 310 Administrators, Building
Demonstrators, Revenue and Stores staff who will require training and a
weel OJT course is considered adequate. Thus a cycle of 30 x 4 week
courses is shown on Diagram 2. Project Management courses are indicated in
4 x 1 month sessions at commencing implementation and 2 x 1 month refresher
courses.
Works
Vorkshops. The Industrial Council for the Motor Industry has determined
that a 240 hour OJT course is required for upgrading from one skill level
to the next, assuming guided practical experience between courses. This
leads to an 8-week course.
Thus for 100 Automotive Mechanics, a 20 x 8 week cycle is shown;
for 60 Plant Mechanics and 60 mechanical staff two 12 x 8 week cycles are
shown. These cycles allow for each 10 person group to move through two
upgrading courses. Diagram 2 shows these cycles.
Water and Sewerage Staff. Based on rhe existing Harare courses, a
two-month site laboratory and lecture course is planned. For these
courses, a group size of 8 is normal and thus for 80 such staff, a cycle of
10 x 2 month courses is shown on Diagram 2.
Treasurers.  There are assumed to be 120 trainee professional Accountants
and 120 trainee Accounting Technicians to be trained. A three-month
course has been assumed and thus cycles amounting to 24 x 3 month courses
are shown on Diagram 2.
Logistics
Since the number of staff requiring training in the majority of
towns is small it is proposed to concentrate OJT in the two main cities,
Harare and Bulawayo. Instructors may conduct OJT in other centres as
necessary.
Two Accounts Instructors will be based in Bulawayo to take over
the current in-service training from line Accountants who are now under
much pressure to cope. They will deal with all accounts OJT in Bulawayo
and other towns.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
of Attachment 1
To Schedule 1
One Housing Instructor will be based in Harare where the major
experience in assisted self-help schemes exist. Staff from other towns
will come to Harare for OJT, though the larger numbers in Bulawayo may well
justify some training being carried out there if required.
The major need for training of mechanical operators exists in
Harare and three Instructors will be based at the Gaul Avenue workshops.
The first priority must be to run OJT for Harare's own automotive, plant
and mechanical staff and then to extend this training to the operators from
other towns.



- 76 -
AMNr 4
Schedule 2
TRAINING AIDS AND EQUIPIfEN
Vehicles:
4 w.d. Utilities
15 seat Minibuses
8TranUg Aids/quipmnmt
20" TV monitor
V.C.R. Record/Playback
V.C.R. Playback
Video Camera
16mm Sound Projector
Super 8 Sound Projector
Super 8 Camera (Sound)
35 mm SLR Camera
35 mm Project Projector
Cassette Recorder/Player
Overhead Projector
Plain Paper Copier
Materials
Video Films (locally made)
Video Films
16 mm Films
Super 8 Films
Slide/Cassette sets
!Iechanicl Training Aids
To include: Work Benches, Tool Kits, Jacks, Gas and Electric Welding Sets,
Grinders, Presses, Drills, Bench Lathes, Miscellaneous Hand Tools,
Measuring Equipment and Cutaway Demonstration Components.



-77-
_______________                  ANNEX  4
(ft 
er  
FDS-7 i'  3
_C-_)
I-    ililti,
i. ' EIIE



Chart B: BULAWAYO CITY COUNCIL
MAYOR &
CITY COUNCILLORS
TOMN CLEPZK
CITY                     CITY                 CITY ELECTRICAL             MEDICAL      l          IRFCTOR OF               HOUSING &
TREASUJRER               ENGINEER                  ENGINEER                OFFICER OF               BUILDING &            COMMUNITY SERVICLS
HEALTH                  AMENINI S                DMIRLCTOR
wVoocl Bank -245fb 
I-ax



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
CHART C
Chart C: MUTARE CIf COUNCIL
MAYOR &
ctV COOUNCILLORS
TOWN CLERK
CRY          CITY cnvcITYacLmrAL I                    |     MEDCAL
|  REASURER     l    l     ENCINEER     l     l     ENGBNEER     l    l       RHE OF                 DIRECrOR     l
HEALTH
World Bank -24554



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
CHART D
NASVINGO TION COUNCIL
MAYOR &
CITY COUNCILLORS
! TOWN CLERK     |
*  TOWN     1  r      TOWN             .      MEDICAL          COMMUNITY SERVICES
t   TREASURER  ! I   ENGINEER                  OFFICER OF            DIRECTOR
HEALTH



CHART It PROPOSED STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF UNIT IN DEPARU KNT OF CoMMUNITY SERVICES IN HARARE
FOI ICPL"UINTING A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
S.A.A.O.
Area Manager
Revenue                    Loans                     Estates                  Admin.                Tech. Assist/CD
A.A.0.3                      A.A.0.4                   A.A.0.4              A.A.0.3                   C.S.O. (2)
A.A.0.4                      A.A.0.5                   A.A.o.6              A.A.0.6                   C.S.O. (3) x 2      
C . O . x 10)                C.O.          C           C .0O   _            C . OC. () x                           2 )
H.A. (3)
Driver (2)
Messenger
Labourers (x 8)
Functions                   Functions                Functions               Functions                   Functions
Revenue Collection      Interviews/screening           Allocations         Markets                    Group Work
Reconciliation          Loan Agreements                Agreements          Public Toilets             Cooperatives
Bad Debts               Cheque/cash payments           Cessions            Implementation of By-      Beneficiary
Estimates               Requisitions for building      Transfers              Laws                    Orientation               C .
Budgetary Control        materials                     Extensions          Records                    Monitoring self-builder
Cancellations      Statistics                     process
Personnel
Call-in-Notices



PROPOSED ESTABLISHMEWr OF UNIT
Drafted From
Grade    Salary    Number    Cost    Other Areas          Cost       Net Cost
1. ARIA OFFICE
Senior Area Administration Officer               11/10    15,327        1       17,626         -               -       17,626
Area Administration Offi,pr fl)                  14/13    12,368        2       28,446         -               -       28,446
Area Administration Officer (3)                     16    10,090        2       23,207         2          23,207
Community Services Officer  (2)                     17      8,780       1       10,097         -               -       10,097
Area Administration Officer (4)                     17      8,780       3       30,291         3          30,291
Area Administration Officer (5)                  19/18      7,198       1        8,289         1           8,278
Community Services Officer  (3)                     19      6,814       2       15,672         -               -       15,672
Area Administration Officer (6)                     20      5,704       2       13,119         2          13,119
Clerical Officer                                 22/21      4,055      14       65,286         -               -       65,286
Housing Assistant (4)                            22/21      4,055       1        4,663         -               -        4,663
Housing Assistant (3)                            23/22      2,981       1        3,428         -               -        3,428
Driver             (2)                              23      2,567       1        2,952         -               -        2,952        N
Clerical Assistant                               24/23      2,161       2        4,970         -               -        4,970
Housing Assistant (2)                            24/23      2,161      14       34,792         -               -       34,792
Messenger                                           25      1,631       1        1,876         -               -        1,876
Labourers                                           26      1,405       8       12,926         -               -       12,926
277,629                    74,895      202,734
Less:  14 supernumerary Learner Housing
Assistants - see note 2                  25      1,631      14                                              26,250
176,475
2. HKADQURTKERS
Chief Clerical Officer                              17      8,780       1                                              10,097
Clerical Officer                                 22/21      4,055       2                                               9,326
19,423    ^ P.
NOTES:  1.  Costs are calculated at midpoint in the salary scales plus 15%.
2.  There are currently 19 Supernumarary Learner Housing Assistants (Grade 25) who are surplus to the
Department's authorized establishment.  These men were excombatants who this department was instructed to
rt
employ.  It is proposed to deploy these men throughout the existing areas and, where possible, absorb them                  >
as Housing Assistants (2).  This will release other Housing Assistants for duties in                                        0
Parkridge/Fontainbleau. Increases to the Department's authorized establishment are required but there will
be savings arising from the reduction of 14 in the number of supernumeraries engaged.



DEPARUlIM OF LOCAL GOOVNUNT PROMOTION AND TRAINING
MINISTLY OF LOCAL GOVERMRUN AND TOWN PLANNING
M.L.G.T.P
Permanent
Secretary
I
Deputy Secretary
Training                                                                  c
|Core Team |                                                                                              | Core Team
_ _--- World Bank|
Under Secretary
Training
Asst. Secretary                       Assistant Secretary                       Assistant Secretary
Tr. Region I                         Training Region III                       Training Region II
Victoria      Maicaland        Mash East        Midlands      Mat. South      Mat. North    Mash Central    Mash West
Province      Prvince          Province         Province       Province         Province         Province      Province
Masvingo       Mutare          Harare             Gweru                         Bulawayo
Instructors:                                    Instructors
Housing (2)                                     Accounts (2)
Mechanics (3)
Civ. Eng. (1)



MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION AND NATIONAL HOUSING
CHART G: PROPOSED STRUCTURE OF COCT8ACTOR ADVISORY AND TRAINING SERVICE (CATS)
HEAD OFFICE
HARARE
DIRECTOR OR
ADMINISTRATIVE                                       SENIOR TRAINING &
OFFICER                                                ADVISER
BULAWAYO                      HARARE                      GWERU                   MASVINGO
DISTRICT ARCHITECTS          STAFF                       STAFF                     5'LAFF
OFFICER                3 TRAINING &                1 TRAINING &              1 TRAINING &
STAFF                        ADVISORY OFFICERS           ADVISORY OFFICER          ADVISORY OFFICER
2 TRAINING &                 VEHICLES                    VEHICLES                  VEHICLES
ADVISORY OFFICERS            2 MOBILE UNITS              1 MOBILE UNIT             I MOBILE UNIT
VEHICLES                     1 PATROL                    OPERATION AREA            OPERATIONAL AREA
1 MOBILE UNIT                VEHICLE                     MIDLANDS                  MASVINGO AND
I PATROL                     OPERATIONAL AREA                                      MANICALANC SOUTH
OPERATIONAL AREA             MASHONALAND
MATABELELAND                 PROVINCE & MUTARE
& MANICALANC
NORTH
E X



- 85 -
ANNUt 5
Page 1 of 6
ZIMBABWE URIAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy
CURRENT PRACTICE
EARARE
Offsite Infrastructure
5.01      Costs for offsite infrastructure are recoverd through tariffs and
rates (supplementary charges). Water, electricity, sewerage, waste manage-
ment are recovered through tariffs which are fully economic. Costs of main
roads and street lighting are recovered through rates (supplementary
charges).
Onsite Infrastructure and Plot Sales
5.02      Costs of onsite infrastructure such as land, estate roads (feeder
roads and surface drainage including cost of survey, conveyancing) are re-
covered through plot sales. Water and electricity reticulation costs are
recovered through existing tariffs which are fully economic. Cost of land
is included in the plot price at a standard charge of Z$0.30 per m2.
Tarlffs and Monthly Charges Per Plot
5.03      The current level of tariffs and monthly charges per plot is as
follows:
Sewerage                          Z$ 2.82
Refuse                               1.05
Supplementary charges                4.50
Water (minimum charge)               2.25
Electricity (minimum charge)        12.00
Z$22.62
Recent Increases in Rates (Supplementary Charges) wnd Tariffs
Date of Increase    Z Increase
Electricity Tariffs
Municipal Area           November 1982           60         Tariff Review
-                   February 1983            9
August 1983            47
Licensed Area            November 1982           58
-                   February 1983           25
-                   August 1983            119
Load Limiter Tariffs     November 1982           78         Tariff Review
April 1983               9
-                   October 1983             5
Water Tariff             October 1983            20



-86-                          ANNEK 5
Page 2 of 6
Rents of Houses and Flats
5.04      Rents of houses and flats in Arcadia, Ardbennie, Sunningdale and
St. Martins were increased by amounts varying between Z$3 and Z$8 per house
or flat to yield revenue as follows:
Name and Type of                Total Monthly      Total Annual
Residence                       Increase           Increase
Arcadia Houses                        37               444
St. Martins Houses                    46               552
Ardbennie Houses                      92             1,104
Sunningdale Houses                   109             1,308
Z$1,143         Z$13,716
There were no rent increases in the Local Government Areas.



- 87 -
Page 3 of 6
BULAUAYO
Offsite Infrastructure
5.05      All offsite infrastructure costs are recovered through rates
(supplementary charges) and tariffs.   Rates (supplementary charges)
include recovery of capital costs for sewerage, roads, drainage, refuse
collection, and street lighting. Water and electricity costs are recovered
L,rough tariffs.
Onsite Infrastructure & Plot Sales
5.06      Part cf the costs of onsite infrastructure is recovered through
plot sales and the remainder through rates (supplementary charges) and
tariffs. However, as the plot sale prices are based on an assessment of
the costs per plot based on relative merits of the area (soil conditions,
distance to town, access to transportation, etc.) and not on actual costs,
it is difficult to determine the exact percentage of costs recovered
through plot sales unless full costs of a proposed development scheme are
available. Preliminary indications, however, suggest that approximately
1/3 of the development costs are recovered through plot sales.
5.07      The current level of plot prices as assessed by the values based
on market valuation as as follows;
Plot Size          Amount
200 m2           Z$ 450
250 m2              500
300 m2              600
400 m2              850
Plot costs are recovered by the City over 25 years at 10.25%.
Tariffs and Monthly Charges Per Plot
5.08      The current level of tariffs and monthly charges per plot is as
follows:
Supplementary charges         Z$ 9.37 per month
Water (minimum charge)           5.48 per month
Electricity (minimum charge)    8 ._  per month
TOT-AL    Z$23.65
Recent Increase in Rates (Supplementary Charges) and Tariffs
5.09      Since January 1981 electricity surcharge has been increased by
over 300%. Rates have gone up by about 5% since July 1982. Sewerage fees
was increased by 8% in July 1983 and supplementary charges have been raised
by about 15% since July 1982.



-88 -                        AUNU S
Page 4 of 6
MUTARE
Offsite Infrastructure
5.10      Costs for offsite infrastructure are recovered through tariffs
and rates (supplementary charges). Water, sewerage and electricity
expenditures are recovered through tariffs, whereas costs for roads and
stormwater drainage are recovered through rates (low density areas) or
supplementary charges (high density areas).
Onsite Infrastructure and Plot Salas
5.11      Costs for water and sewer reticulation, electricity mains (except
for connection fees) are recovered through existing tariffs, whereas costs
for surface water drainage, street lighting and 75% of cost of roads is re-
covered through plot sales. The balance of 25% of cost of roads is re-
covered through rates (supplementary charges).
5.12      Plot sales cover 75% of the cost of onsite roads, 100% of the
cost of street lighting and 1OOZ of onsite stormwater drainage. In addi-
tion, the cost of land, connection fees for water, electricity and sewer-
age, survey, design and supervision, is also covered through plot sales.
Tariffs and Monthly Charges Per Plot
5.13      The present level of tariffs and monthly charges per plot is as
follows:
Sewerage                       Z$ 2.20
Refuse                            2.00
Supplementary Charges            10.50
Water (Average Minimum Charge)   2.75
Electricity (Average Minimum
Charge)                         6.00
Z$23.45
Recent Increases in Rates (Supplementary Charges)
5.14      Over the last three years, rates have been increased as follows;
1981/82                         10%
1982!83                         25%
1983/84                         15Z
5.15      A 25% increase in rents and supplementary charg_s was approved by
Government in February 1983 and budgeted. However, due to resistance by
rent payers and intervention by the Ministry of Local Government and Town
Planning, the increase is still not operative. The delay in implementing
the increases is causing a loss of income to the City of approximately
$33,000 per month since March 1, 1983.



- 89 -
AMNX 5
Page 5 of 6
MASVINGO
Offsite Infrastructure
5.16      All offsite infrastructure costs, including part of onsite costs
(roads, SWD and electricity and water) are recovered through tariffs,
supplementary charges and rates. Rates (supplementary charges) include
recovery of capital cost of roads and electricity (street lighting).
Sewerage, refuse collection and water costs are recovered through existing
tariffs.
Onsite Infrastructure and Plot Sales
5.17      A portion of the onsite infrastructure costs are recovered
directly from beneficiaries through plot sales. These sales prices include
the cost of survey fees, roads and storm water drainage, administration and
contract supervision and electricity (connection fee). Based on current
costs, the plot prices are as follows:
Survey Fees                  Z$ 50.00
Roads and SWD                  409.00
Administration and Contract
SPN                           56.00
Electricity (connection fee)    10.00
Z$525.00
Tariffs and Monthly Charges Per Plot
5.18      The current level of tariffs and monthly charges per plot is as
follows:
Monthly Charges
Sewerage                      Z$ 3.84
Refuse                           3.20
Water (minimum charge)           3.33
Supplementary charge             4.23
TOTAL         Z$14.60
Recent Increases In Rates (Supplementary Charges) and Tariffs
5.19      The most recent level of increases in tariffs approved by the
City is as follows:
Z Increase
Rents                     28% (eff. Oct. 1, 1983)
Service Charge            28% (                - )
Supplementary Charge      28% ( -                )
Rates                     10% (eff. July 1, 1983)
Unit Tax                  20% ( -              - )
Water                      10% (eff. Nov. 1, 1983)
Public Health Tariff      10% (                   )



-AWri 5
Page 6 of 6
B.  impact of                       : :    -              Societies
5.20      In the reet         - -                     -e oeen adversely
affected by rapidly                 r:: - .- -rstitutions
everywhere that leCt                      - -u. i               jnancial
institutions had sta2'-.S wiere
competitive, ranged             -w .                             ts withdrawable on
demand (sight depcsi -      -                                  and their
lending rates from        -:                    :. --           rates i-ncreased
dramatically (e.g. C                                         d-" -neposits), and
building society rates --                          -     -    rates.  Since
lending rates coulcd nnl-                                      m        notice),
building societv ro
5.21      Until now. --- .d  mortgages for
relatively high-cost                                           ession in high
income housing. t.e                                            ad a negative
impact on them.  .-.ependence,
prices in the n7        -              - -            -      - -e second
quarter of 1982, it w--                                        at about 60% of
replacement cost.  C vn- -- -                           :1c ;'ousTg of this sort
was being built.               :-                      ;-  -Lms segment of the
building societies c                -:deraly.
5.22      The abilit  ^--  c- msis has been
weakened by modific;io _s  -A>Ces and by changes
in law.  While bar.'s                 sa-nsngs deposit
rates, the most t-he                                       s -.75%.  In
addition post office seDos.ts, have
recently been made                      .. -.ss attractive
and deposits actuals:                                          r, shortly
thereafter 'unes beg.       -                       2     e societies (CABS)
had one of its best y- :         -:-,
5.23      The changes   -s itn'n wer_ based in
deliberate Governmen.                                       o-W pricrity, the
Government successftu       .        - 7               2s  s tc' postal savings
to help finance   e   -                           -  -         an._'s to finance
both the agriculturC                       S                   :sten t
Reinforcing these ciina- s -- ---         : =             -. '-2cu rements of the
societies werc also    -                                    -ev hinder the
societies, when seen                                   -.-j - -- nbjective--to
divert funds from h:                                          are consistent.



-91 -                         AMNE 5
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
BULAWAYO
TRND AMALYSIS REVENUE AMD EXmNITURE
(Z$'000)
X                        %        SURPLUS
INCOME   CHANGE   EXPENDITURE    CHANGE    (DEFICIT)
Actual   FY 1979    39,447                 39,865                     (388)
FY 1980    47,442       20        44,479           12      2,963
FY 1981    57,485       21        55,631          25       1,854
FY 1982    73,561       28        71,356          28       2,205
Estimated  FY 1983    92,181        25       92,033           29          48
Compound
Annual Growth
Rate (79-83)                     23.6                        23.3
RESERVES, PROVISIONS AND ACCDYO1LTED SURPLUS
AS OF JUNE 1983
Rate Account                      Z$  5,668,310
Estates Account                       2,645,044
Housing Account                          88,541
Bulawayo Housing Account              3,732,007
Liquor Account                        9,362,798
Electricity Account                   1,269,808
Z$ 22,766,508



- 92 -                              ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
ziomam  i  DRE WZLNO            lWJ
CM Or P.Auu
MMD AVALYSIS IXRHI3T
(ZSOOO)
(C)
Estinated
Actual       Actual        Actual         Actual          Actual
Acxotts                             FYE '79       FYE '80       FYE '81        FYI '82          FYE '83
(1)          (2)           (3)            t5)               T-
Rate           Lncome               Z$  7,036    Z$ 8,266       ZS 9,100       Z$ 11,171      ZS 12,097
Expenditures             8,106       8,859        10,125          11.748          12,321
Surplus/Deficit         (1 070)        (593)      (1 025)           (577)           (224)
Eetates        Income                      604         588           639             627             723
Expenditures               143          159          164             194             206
Surplus/Deficit            461         429           475             433             517
Somslng        Income                      222         236           238             242             243
Expenditures               242         249           243             255             258
Surplus/Deficit            (20)         (13)          (5)            (13)            (15)
Hosulng-4ocal  Income                    8,970      11,222        13,781           17,182          21.912
Government   Expenditures             10.805      10,752        13,522           17.365         22,209
Areas        Surplus/Deficit          (1,835)        470           259             (183)           (297)
Helth &        Income                        -         877         1,753            2.168           1.440
CoAminlty    Expenditures                  -       2,788         3,569            4,326          4,819
(B)          Surplus/Deficit               -      (1,911)       (1,816)          (2,158)            79)
UlectricIty    Income                    8,001       8,864        10,693           12,205          16,757
Expeuditxres             7,363       8,035         9,842           11,781          17 184
Surplus/Deficit            638         829           851              424            C427)
Water          Income                    4,406       4,756         4,772            5,757           6.302
Expenditures             4,406       4,366         4,995            5,337           7.244
Surplus/Deficit              -         390          (223)             420            (942)
Liquor         Income                   10,238      12,631        16,508           24,209          30,226
Expenditures             8,800       9,271        13,171           20,350          26,167
Surplus/Deficit          1,438       3,360         3,337            3,859           4,059
TOTAL           Income                  39,477      47,442        57,485           73,561          92,181
(A)           Expenditures             39,865       4.479        55,631           71,356          92,033
Surplus/Deficit      Z$   (388)  ZS  2,963    Z$  1,854        ZS   2,205     ZS       48
(A)  Total amounts do not include capital expenditures spread throughout the revenue accounts of
ZS 2 028 000 and ZS 2 180 000 in 1982 and 1983 respectively.
(B)  Included in Bulawayo Housing Account in 1979, 1982 and 1983.
(C) Estimated Actual 83 and Estimate 84 accounts excludes contributions to capital outlay.



-93 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
HRARSE
TREND ANALYSIS REVENUE AND EXPENDITrRE
(Z$'000)
Z                       Z        SURPLUS
INCOME   CHANGE   EXPENDITURE    CHANGE    (DEFICIT)
Actual FY 1979    65,506                   62,557                 3,249
FY 1980    78,591   20             75,739       22        2,852
FY 1981    89,446   14            89,997        12         (551)
FY 1982   116,915   31            109,212       21        7,703
Estimated  FY 1983   139,392   19            126,883       16        12,509
Compound Annual
Growth Rate
(79-83)                        20.8                        19.3
RESERVES, PROVISIONS AND CCUKUlArED SURPLUS
AS OF JUNE 1983
Rate Account                       Z$10,203,537
Waste Management Account                 206,263
Sewerage Account                       2,367,300
Housing Account                           64,640
Electricity Account                    7,366,731
Water Account                          3,459,365
Beer Account                           2,600,000
Provisions (General)                   3,893,937
Z$30,161,773



ANNEX 5
94 -                                 rTable 2
Page 2 of 2
Z    nKAK URBA  DKVKOFT PROJnCr
City of Harare
TVKED ACALYSIS KIHITIT
(ZS0OO)
APPROX.
Actual       Actual        Actual          Actual          Actual
Accounts                             FYE '79      FYE '80       FYE '81         FYE '82          FYE '83
(1)          (2)           (3)             (5)              (7)
Rate           Income               Z$ 16,252    Z$ 19,875    Z$ 16,404         Z$ 24,369       ZS 29,760
Expenditures            16,705        20,342       18,074          21,912          24,628
Surplus/Deficit           (453)         (467)      (1,670)          2,457           5,132
Waste          Income                        -             -        1,188           1,419           2,120
Kanagemut   Expenditures                   -             -        1,236           1,479           1,813
Surplus/Deficit              -             -           (48)           (60)            307
Sever-ge       Income                        -             -        5,242           5,458           6,808
Expenditures                 -             -        5,098           5,112           5,649
Surplus/Deficit              -             -           144            346           1,159
Estates        Income                      962         1,004        1,037           1,334           1,708
Expenditures               353           325          332             552             725
Surplus/Deficit            609           679           705            782             983
Housiag        Income                      492           510          515             516             520
Expenditures               541           549          509             482             477
Surplus/Deficit            (49)          (39)           6              34              43
Parking        Income                      810           744          847             998           1,143
Expenditures               647           794           956          1,068           1,325
Surplus/Deficit            163           (50)        (109)             (70)          (182)
Housing-Local. Income                    9,368        10,585       11,967          13,923          11,341
Government   Expenditures              9,681       11,687        14,123          15,518          13,808
Areas        Surplus/Deficit            (313)      (1,102)       (2,156)         (1,595)         (2,467)
ielfare        Income                      817           834          971           1,325           1,543
Expenditures               817           834          971           1,325           1,543
Surplus/Deficit              -             -            -               -               -
Electricity    Income                   27,947       31,076        34,124          41,651          52,160
& Water      Expenditures             25,807       29,418        33,823          38,398          47,667
Surplus/Deficit          2,140         1,658           301          3,253           4,493
Traditionl    Income                     8,858        13,963       17,151          25,922          32,289
Beer         Expenditures              7,706        11,790       14,875          23,366          29,248
Surplus/Deficit          1,152         2,173        2,276           2,556           3,041
TOTALS          Income                  65,506        78,591       89,446         116,915         139,392
Expenditures            62,257        75,739       89,997         109,212         126,883
Surplus/Deficit       Z$ 3,249     Z$ 2,852      Z$  (551)    Z$   7,703        Z$ 12,509



ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
.-~~~~~17
SURPLUS
:.~     :        : .  ~  ::  ,    TE CHANGE  (DEFICIT)
Actual  FY 197c                                                              294
FY   T 98(,;   , _0t' -    t          ', | ,,' ^-      10           271
FY ig8;                   1                            19           114
Fy 1.2 -9.. 28                                                      307
Estimated  FY 1983           ,. !      ''                           10         1,156
Compound Annual
Growth Rate
(79-83):                                                            16.5
2ES s} :S : = - .; , .. -. _,_.__      7?J    S   JRLUS
JUN_ E 1983
*                        ~~~~~~~ZS319,901
' S'av >  , =          .- -         593,966
.ap; t* ~e--  i- -  >- -:-.-. E .*,.       158,925
dHlm.e l-.m.5 -.                              8,625
Rlese-l .... - ' 472,012
Est, te- >:-.                              3 71,012
- . c u .; . .  A  .     -  -       - : - -545,008
'u -:                                    100,881
/ $91 070,330



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
z     M  nummur nwDr
CI!T OF MAirSINW
TmmD  NAULSIS UKIBIT
(Z$000)
Estlmate
Actual       Actual        Actual           Actual           Actual
ccounts                              FYE '79      FYE '80       FYE '81          FYE '82           FTE '83
(1)          (2)           (3)              (5)               (7)
Rate           InCOme               Z$    698   Z$    758    Z$    850           Z$    970        Z$    829
Expenditures               726          792          925             1,008            1,159
Surplus/Deficit            (28)         (34)         (75).              (38)           (330)
water           Income                     407          433          455                657             835
Expenditures               338          371          391               466              536
Surplus/Deficit             69           62           64                191             299
_bcke          Income                      515          592          691               999              840
Nboglag      Expenditures                498         571           741             1,046              994
Surplus/Deficit             17           21          (50)               (47)           (154)
Welfare (A)    Incowe                       65           81          101                177             220
Expenditures                65           81          101                177             220
Surplus/Deficit              -            -            -
Lilquor        Income                      495          480          474               650            1,051
Undertakiag  Expenditures                259         258           299               449              563
(J)          Surplus/Deficit             236         222           175               201              488
TOTAL          Income                    2,180       2,344         2,571             3,453            3.775
Expenditures             1,886        2.073        2,457             3,146            3,472
Surplus/Deficit      Z$    294    Z$   271      Z$   114         Z$    307        Z$    303
(A)   Income amounts include subsidy from liquor undertaking.
(B)   Net of Cost of Sales.



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
REND ANALYSIS REVEn  AM EXPENRE
(Z$'000)
Z                        %        SURPLUS
INCOME   CHANGE   EXPENDITURE    CHANGE    (DEFICIT)
Actual  FY 1979      8,127                 7,617                    510
FY 1980     9,333      13         8,605          13        728
FY 1981         *                     *                     *
FY 1982    13,783      48        13,104          52        679
Estimated  FY 1983    16,469      19         16,224         24         245
Compound Annual
Growth Rate
(79-83)                           19.3                      20.8
RESERVES, PROVISIONS AND ACCIMIJL&DF SURPLUS
AS OF JUNE 1983
Rates                               Z$250,000
Estates                                 65,000
Estates Capital Account                112,000
Electricity                            195,000
Water                                 353,000
Sundry Reserves                       236,000
Local Government AReas                 193,000
Beer                                   74,000
Sub-total               1,478,000
Capital Dev. Funds                  1,210,000
TOTAL                 Z$2,688,000



-98-                                       ANNEX 5
Table 4
ZIMBABWE URBM  DKVEIOfPlEH   PROJECT                  Page 2 of 2
City of uatare
TREfD ANALYSIS EXHIBIT
(ZS000)
Actual                            Estimated
Actual       Actual       FYE '81            Actual           Actual
Accounts                             FYE '79       FYE '80          (A)            FYE '82           FYE '83
(1)           (2)          (3)               (5)               (7)
Rate            Income               Z$  1,723    ZS 2,065       ZS               Z$  2,610         Z$  3,122
Expenditure              1,743        2,010                            2,491            2,991
Surplus/Deficit             (20)         55                              119              131
Estates         Income                       28           38                              43               50
Expenditures                 19          23                               32               57
Surplus/Deficit               9           15                              11               (7)
Housing         Income                       31           51                              66               80
Expenditures                 72          79                               62               83
Surplus/Deficit             (41)        (28)                               4               (3)
ousing-Local  Income                      1,650        1,770                           2,082            2,347
Government   Expenditures              1,607        1,676                           2,362             2,891
Area          Surplus/Deficit              43          94                             (280)            (544)
fealth &        Income                      270          331                             826              860
Welfare      Expenditures                411          401                              878            1.132
Surplus/Deficit           (141)         (70)                             (52)            (272)
Electricity    Income                    2,232        2,440                            3,337            4,780
Expenditures             2,095        2,315                            3,191            4,657
Surplus/Deficit             137          125                             146              123
Water           Income                      876        1,009                           1,005            1,135
Expenditures                771         920                            _ 952            1,046
Surplus/Deficit             105          89                               53               89
Beer            Income                    1,317       1,628                            3,814            4,095
Expenditures                899       1,181                            3,136            3,367
Surplus/Deficit            418          447                              678              728
TOTAL           Income                   8,127        9,333                           13,783           16,469
Expenditures             7,617        8,605                           13,104           16,224
Surplus/Deficit       Z$   510    Z$   708       Z$               Z$    679         Z$   245
(A)  Comparable figures not readily available due to change in financial reporting procedures.



AIDS 5
Table 5
Z1MA
URBAN DEVE  PFDE
Kstiiated Recurrent Incom  and Hxndliture - Uulaimyo
(Zimbabwe Dollars Million)
Actual   Est.  Budget                           PROJECTED
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Internal Revenues 1/                                  73.1    92.2   120.1   144.1   165.7   190.6   219.2   252.0   289.9
Additional Internal Revenue (Project)
- Plot sales (Revolving Fund) 5/                        -        -        -       0.2      0.9      1.7      1.5     -         -
- Rates (supplementary charges) & tariffs               -        -        -       0.1      0.3     0.8       1.3      1.3      1.3
- Interest income from revolving fund 5/                -        -        -        -        -       0.1     0.3      0.4      0.4
TOTAL                                         73.5    92.2   120.1   144.4   166.9   193.2   222.3   253.7   291.6
u~itm aR/NT PPENDIUTiRES
Recurrent Costs 2/                                    57.2    75.7   101.6   121.9   140.2   161.2   185.4   213.2   245.2
Incremental Recurrent Cost (Project) 3/                -        -        -        -        -        -       0.9      0.9      0.9
Debt Service
- Non project 4/                                      14.1    16.3    16.1    16.0    15.9    15.6    15.6    15.6    15.6
- Project                                               -        -               -0.1      0.5      1.2      1.9      1.9      1.9
TOTAL                                         71.3    92.0   117.7   138.0   156.6   178.0   203.8   231.6   263.6
Funds Available for Capital Investment                    2.2      0.2      2.4      6.4     10.3    15.2    18.5    22.1    28.0
1/ It is assumed that internal revenue will grow at an annual rate of 20% in 1985, and 15% thereafter.
2/ Recurrent expenditure growth to be held to an increase of 20% in 1985, and 15% thereafter.
3/ 5% of capital expenditure.
W/ Based on schedule of an outstanding loan as of June 1983.
3/ Revolving fund will not be taken as recurrent revenue but will be used to finance that part of debt service relating
to Plot development costs.



-100 -                       ANNU 5
Table 5
Attachment I
Page 1 of 2
NOTES ON ESTIMATED REYCURENT INCOKE AND EKPENDITURES
BUILAYO
I. Additional Internal Revenue (Project)
A. Plot sales
- Revenue equals 32% of dev. costs (see Annex 5 Table 14 on Cost
Recovery).
- Total Dev. Cost for Infrastructure - Z$13.511 million of which
plot sales (32%) - Z$4.32 million.
- Phasing of Revenue from sale of plots.
1985 - 5% - 0.2
1986 - 20% - 0.9
1987 - 40% - 1.7
1988 - 35% - 1.5
Z$4.3
B.   Rates (Supplementary charges) and Tariffs
Total number of plots = 4,515
Total charge per plot - Z$23.65 per month (see Annex 5, page 3)
Total annual income   = 4515 x 23.65 x 12 - 1,281,357
Phasing of annual income based on plot sales Z (see above)
Total    Cumulative
1985 -  5% -  64,067        64,067
1986 - 20% - 256,271       320,338
1987 - 40% - 512,543       832,881
1988 - 35% - 448,474    1,281,355
II.  Incremental Recurrent Costs (Project)
(Assumption 5% of total capital expenditure)
Capital Expenditures
Infrastructure        - Z$13.5
Community Facilities - Z$ 4.5
Z$18.0
Recurrent Costs - 18.0 x 0.5 - Z$ 0.9 per annum
III. Debt Service
Project Loans                           Annual Debt Service
Infrastructure              Z$ 13.5    1.40 (9.75%, 30 yrs)
Community Facilities        Z$  4.5    0.50 (9.75%, 20 yrs)
18.00   1.90
Transport                       0.038   .005 (See Annex 3, pages 1-3)
Institutional Development       0.442   .05  ( -   -    -   "          )
18.480 1.955



- 101 -
AM= 5
Table 5
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
Non-project is based on schedule of all outstanding loans as of
June 30, 1983 as provided by Bulawayo.
IV. Interest Income froo DevolvlIg Fund (Revenue frau Flot Sale.)
Revenue     Cumulative      Interest
(107 p.a.)
1985     200,000        200,000
1986     900,000      1,100,000        20,000
1987   1,800,000      2,900,000       110,000
1988   1,500,000      4,400,000       290,000
4,400,000       440,000



Annex 5
Table 6
ZDEAJI
URBN DRVFJOM FIWU
istinted Recurrent Inoome and hpeunditure - Harare
(Zimbabwe Dollars Million)
Actual   Est.  Budget                         PROJECTED
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
uENr niM
Internal Revenues 1/                              116.9   139.4   167.8   201.3   231.6   266.3   306.3   352.2   404.8
Additional Internal Revenue (Project)
- Plot sales (revolving fund) 5/                      -       -        -        .4     1.4      2.8     2.5       -       -
- Rates (supplementary charges) & tariffs             -       -        -        .1     0.3      0.8      1.3     1.3      1.3
- Interest income from revolving fund 5/              -       -        -                -       0.2     0.5      0.7     0.7
TOTAL                                      116.9   139.4   167.8   201.8   233.3   270.1   301.6   354.2   406.8
miNr AVNDr1zS
Recurrent Costs 2/                                  93.3   111.2   134.2   162.1   186.4   214.4   246.5   283.5   326.1
Incremental Recurrent Cost (Project) 3/              -        -        -       -        -        -      1.3      1.3      1.3
Debt Service
- Non project 4/                                    15.9    15.7    18.0    16.8   16.8        18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8
- Project                                             -       -        -        .1     .7       1.9     3.0      3.0      3.0
TOTAL                                      109.2   126.9   152.2   179.0   203.9   235.1   269.6   306.6   349.2
Funds Available for Capital Investment                  7.7    12.5    15.6    22.8    29.4    35.0    41.0    47.6    57.6
a, /I
1/ It is assumed that internal revenue will grow at an annual rate of 20% in 1985, and 15% thereafter.
2/ Recurrent expenditure growth to be held to an increase of 20% in 1985, and 15% thereafter.
3/ 5Z of capital expenditure.
4*/ Based on schedule of loans outstanding as of June 1983
5/ Revolving Fund will not be taken as recurrent revenue but will be used to finance that part of debt service relating
to plot development costs.



- 103 -
ANNEX 5
Table 6
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
NOTES ON ESTEIATED RECURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES
HARARE
I. Additional Internal Revenue (Project)
A. Plot sales
- Revenue equals 32% of dev. costs (see Annex 5 Table 10 on Cost
Recovery).
-  Total Dev. Cost for Infrastructure = Z$22.3 million of which
plot sales (32%) = Z$7.1 million.
- Phasing ocF Revenue from sale of plots.
1985 - 5% = 0.4
1986 - 20% = 1.4
1987 - 40% = 2.8
1988 - 35% = 2.5
Z$7.1
B.   Rates (Supplementary charges) and Tariffs
Total number oL plots = 4,787
Total charge per plot = Z$22.62 per month
(see Annex 5, pages 1-3)
Total annual income   = 4787 x 22.62 x 12 = 1,299,383
Phasing of annual income based on plot sales Z (see above)
Increase
Per Years   Cumulative
1985 -  5% =1,299,383 x 0.5  =   64,969         64,969
1986 - 20% =1,299,383 x  .20 =  259,876       324,845
1987 - 40% =1,299,383 x  .40 =  519,753       844,598
1988 - 35% =1,299,383 x  .35 =  454,784   1,299,383
II.  incremental Recurrent Costs (Project)
Assumption 5% of total caDital expenditure
Capital Expenditures
Infrastructure        = Z$22.3
Communi'ty Facilities = Z$ 4.7
Z$27.0
Recurrent Costs = 27.0 x 0.05 = Z$1.350



- 104 -
ANNKK 5
Table 6
Attachbent 1
Page 2 of 2
MII. Debt Service (Project)
Project Loans                       Annual Debt Service
Infrastructure            Z$22.3    2.3 (9.75%, 30 yrs)
Community Facilities      Z$ 4.7    0.5 (9.75%, 20 yrs)
27.0    2.80
Institutional Dev.            .4    0.05( -          )
Transport                    1.6     .19( -    -
29.0    3.04
Non project is based on schedule of all outstanding loans as of June 30,
1983 as provided to Harare.
IV. Interest Lneome from Bevolving Fund (Revenue from Plot Sales)
Cumulative     Income
Revenue     Interest      (1OZ p.a.)
1985     400,000
1986   1,400,000     1,800,000        40,000
1987   2,900,000     4,700,000       180,000
1988   2,500,000     7,200,000       470,000
1989                 7,200,000       720,000
V. Capital Development Program
The projections clearly show that Harare would be able to meet
the finacning requirements of Its proposed capital program up to 1987.  The
surplus generated in each of the years 1985-1990 would be more than
adequate to cover the additional debt service based on the proposed capital
program for 1985/86, 1986/87, 1987/88.
Debt Service 1/
New Loans     1985/86      1986/87     1987/88
1984/85       37,913        4,176       4,176        4,176
1985/86       40,255                    4,434        4,434
1986/87       40,436      ___610                     4,454
4,176       8,610       13,064



znm. w
Estimted Recurrent Income and   ponditure - M igo
(Zimbabwe Dollars Million)
Actual   Est.  Budget                          PROJECTED
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    199O
-T DOW
Internal Revenues 1/                                  3.5      4.6      5.6     6.7      7.7      8.9    10.2    11.8    13.5
Additional Internal Revenue (Project)
- Plot sales (revolving fund) 5/                       -        -        -         -     0.2      0.3      0.2       -        -
- Rates (supplementary chargesT & tariffs                                                 -       0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1
- Interest income from revolving fund 5/               -        -        -        -       -                0.1      0.1     0.1
TOIAL                                         3.5      4.6      5.6      6.7      7.9     9.3    10.6    12.0    13.7
Recurrent Costs 2/                                    2.4      2.6      3.5     4.0      4.6      5.3      6.1      7.0     8.1
Incremental Recurrent Cost (Project) 3/                -        -       -        -        -        -       0.1      0.1     0.1
Debt Service
- Non project 4/                                      0.7      0.9      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
- Project                                                                -       -       0.1      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.3
TOTAL                                         3.1      3.5      4.5      5.0     5.7      6.5      7.5      8.4      9.5
Funds Available for Capital Investment                   0.4      1.1      1.1      1.7      2.2      2.8     3.1      3.6      4.2
1/ It is assumed that internal revenue will grow at an annual rate of 20% in 1985, and 15% thereafter.
2/ Recurrent expenditure growth to be held to an Increase of 20% in 1985, and 15% thereafter.
3/ 5% of capital expenditure,
7i/ Based on schedule of an outstanding loan as of June 1983.
S/ Revolving Fund will not be taken as recurrent revenue but will be used to finance that part of debt service relating
to plot development costs.



- 106 -
ANNEX 5
Table 7
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
NOTES ON ESTLMATED RE-CUiRRENT     AE AD EXPENDITURES
I.  Additional Internal. Revenue (Projec),
A. Plot sales
-  Revenue equals 34% of dev. costs (see Annex 5 Table 19)
- Total Dev. Cost for Infrast-ucture = ZS2.1 miIllion of which
plot sales (34%) = ZS.7 mil ion.
-  Phasing of Revenue from sale o  D'lots.
19%5 -  5% = 7$  35.000
198*f - 90"' =    140,000
1987 - 4u0. =    28 ,000
198S - 35% =    245,000
70'J ,O0U
B.   Rates (Supplementary charges) and Tariffs
Total number of D lots = 525
Total charae per plot = Z:14.b0 (see Annex 5 page 5)
Total annual income   = 525 x 14.60 x 12 = 91,980
Phasing of annual income based c plot sales Z (see above)
mota-     Cumulative
1985 -  5% =  L.599            4,599
1986 - 20% = 18,396           22,995
1987 - 40% = 36,792           59,787
1988 - 35% = 324193           91i980
II.  Incremental Recurrent Cbsts (Projecz)
- 5% of total capital exDendditure
Infrastructure        = Z$2..
Community Facilities = Z$0.76
ZS2.86 million
Recurrent Costs = 2.86 x .05 = .'143 oer anrum
III. Debt Service
Project Loans                             Annual2 Debt Service
Infrastructure             Zs 2.1    0.20 (9.75%, 30 yrs)
Communitv Facilities       ZS (0.76   0.03 (9.75%, 20 yrs)
Z$ 2.86   0.28
Technical Assistance          0.4    0.05 (See Annex 3, pages 1-3)
3.26   0.33
Non-project - debt services is based on schedule of all outstanding
loans as of June 23, 1983.



- 107 -
ANNRK 5
Table 7
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
IV. Interest Income from Revolving Fund (Revenue from Plot Sales)
Revenue     Cumulative      Interest
(10% p.a.)
1985      35,000        35,000
1986     140,000       175,000         3,500
1987     280,000       455,000        17,500
1988     245,000       700,000        45,500
70,000



AIN 5
Table 8
Zn..
Atlmated Recurrent Io          d and Re ture - Natare
(Zimbabwe Do.llars Million)
Actual   Eat.  Budget    _        __ __PROJEC_                _      _
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
mu n B
Internal Revenues 11                                13.8    16.5    20.3    24.4    28.1    32.3    37.2    42.7    49.1
Additional Internal Revenue (Project)
- Plot sales (revolving fund) 5/                      -       -        -         .L     .3       .6       .5      -       -
- Rates (supplementary chargesT & tariffs             -                -       -        .1       .3       .4      .4       .4          0
- Interest income from revolving fund 5/              -       -        -                -        .1       .2      .2   . 2
TOTAL                                       13.8    16.5    20.3    24.5    28.5    33.3    38.3    43.3    49.7
Recurrent Costs 2/                                  11.1    13.9    17.7    27.2    24.4    28.0    32.2    37.1    42.6
Incremental Recurrent Cost (Project) 3/              -        -        -       -        -        -        .5      .5       .5
Debt Service
- Non project 4/                                     1.9     2.3      2.5     2.5      2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5
- Project                                             -       -        -      _        0.3      0.7     1.0      1.0      1.0
TOTAL                                       13.0    16.2    20.2    23.7    27.2    31.2    36.2    41.1    46.6
Funds Available for Capital Investment                  0.8      0.3     0.1      0.8      1.3     2.1      2.1     2.2      3.1              
1/ It is assumed that internal revenue will grow at an annual rate of 20% in 1985, and 15% thereafter.
2/ Recurrent expenditure growth to be held to an increase of 20% In 1985, and 15% thereafter.
3/ 5% of capital expenditure.
4/ Based on schedule of outstanding loan as of June 1983.
3/ Revolving Fund will not be taken as recurrent revenue but will be used to finance that part of debt service relating
to plot development costs.



- 109 -                      ANEM 5
Table 8
Attachment I
Page 1 of 2
NOTES ON ESTITATED RECURRENT INCOKE AMN HiENrDITURES
NUTARE
I.  Additional Internal Revenue (Project)
A. Plot sales
- Revenue equals 18% of dev. costs (see Annex 5 Table 18).
- Total Dev. Cost for Infrastructure = Z$8.1 million of which
plot sales (18%) = Z$1.5 million.
- Phasing of Revenue from sale of plots.
1985 - 5% = 0.1
1986 - 20% = 0.3
1987 - 40% = 0.6
1988 - 35% = 0.5
z$1.5
B.  Rates (supplementary charges) and Tariffs
Total number of plots = 1,522
Total charge per plot = Z$23.45 per month (see Annex 5, page 4)
Total annual income   = 1522 x 23.45 x 12 - 428,290
Phasing of annual income based on plot sales Z (see above)
Total    Cumulative
1985 -  5% = $21,414        21,414
1986 - 20% =  85,658       107,072
1987 - 40% = 171,316       278,388
1988 - 35% = 149,901       428,289
II.  Incremental Recurrent Costs (Project)
- 5% of total capital expenditure
Infrastructure        = Z$8.2
Community Facilities - Z$1.3
9.5
Recurrent Costs - $9.5 x .05 - 0.475
III. Debt Service
Project Loans                           Annual Debt Service
Infrastructure            Z$ 8.1    0.85 (9.75%, 30 yrs)
Community Facilities      Z$ 1.3    0.15 (9.75%, 20 yrs)
9.3    1.00
Institutional Dev.            .4    0.05 (See Annex 3, page 3)
9.7    1.05
Non-project - debt services is based on schedule of all outstanding
loans as of Jan. 23, 1983.



- 110 -
ANNEX 5
Table 8
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
NV. Interest  nirome from Revolving Fund (Revenue frox Plot Sales)
Revenue     Cumulative    Interest
(10% p.a.)
1985     100,000       100,000
1986     300,000       400,000        10,000
1987     600,000     1,000,000        40,000
1988     500,000     1,500,000       100,000
150,000



- ill -
ANNEX 5
Table 9
-nIbabwe Urban Deve1opment Project
COST REECOVERY
Summary Table
(ZS July 83)
Total     Total               Pecovery Source
No. of    Base       Plot         Tariffs          Rates
Plcts     Cost       Sales   (Elec., Water) (Supp. Charges)
Harare         4,787   14,351        4,324        9,368              659
Bulawayo       4,515    8,748        2,71o        4,142            1,890
Mutare         1,522    ,.19!          928        3,764              499
Iasvingo         525    1,373          466          907                 5
TOTAL    11,349   29,668        8.434        18,181            3,053
Percent Recovery          100%         29%          61%               10%
Zimbabwe Urban DeveloDment T
January 5, 1984



- 112 -
AM=l 5
Table 10
Zibiibne Urbui Irornt Project
BR : COW BEDO
(Z$ July 83)
Total       Total          Recovery Source
No. of       RBRa         Cost Per     Plot                Rates
Plots         Cost         Plot        Sales  Tariffs  (Supp. Cbg.)
A. Site
1. Sun/St. Martin      1,435        3,439,121     2,397        873      1,420        104
2. Glen Nora             902        2,119,942     2,350        825      1,475         50
3. MPG                 2,450        8,791,385     3,589        950      2,449        190
TOTAL         4,787       14,350,448     8,336     2,648       5,344       344
(1OO%)     (32Z)      (64%)       (4%)



- 113 -
ARM 5
Table 11
Zloibabe Urban De]loosLt Project
IBES: aoI  1UODY
SM:  SM/SSt. NWr.
b ber of Plots: 1435
(Z$ July 83)
Total                              Recovery Source
Base      Total Cost       Plot                   Rates
Cost       Per Plot        Sales     Tariffs   (sUPP.Chg.)
A, Site Prep.atln
Cadastral Survey                  71,750           50          50          -           -
B. Qz-side Infrastructure
Roads a Stornwater
Drainage                     1,033,500          720        720
Water Supply                     480,200          335                      335
Sewerage                         746,120          520                      520
Electricity                      608,000          424                      424
Street Lighting                   91,000           63                                 63
Sub-total                    2,958,820        2,062        720         1,279       63
C. Off-site   frrt
Roads                             59,000           41                                 41
Water                             52,500           37                       37
Sewerage                         136,700           95                       95
Electricity                        -               -                     _
Sub-total (C)                  248,200          173                      132       41
D. Ues1gn & S.pe isn ig
On-site Infrastructure           147,941          103         103
Off-site Infrastructure           12,410            9                        9
Sub-total (D)                  160,351          112         103            9
Total               3,439,121       2,397         873         1,420      104
(100%)      (36%)         (59%)     (5%)



- 114 -
ALNEX 5
Table 12
Zimbabwe Urban Development Project
HARARE: COST RECOVERY
SITE: Glen Nora
Number of Plots: 902
(Z$ July 83)
Total        Total               Recovery Source
Base      Cost Per        Plot                       Rate
Cost         Plot         Sales       Tariffs    (Supp.Chg.)
A.  Site Preparation
Cadastral Survey          45,100        50           50
B.  On-site Infrastructure
Roads & Stormwater
Drainage              609,450        676          676
Water Supply             266,460       295                         295
Sewerage                 486,730       540                         540
Electricity              371,000       411                         411
Street Lighting           45,500        50                                       50
Sub-total           1,779,140    1,972            676          1,246           50
C.  Off-site Infra-
structure
Roads                      -
Water                    196,900       218                         218
Sewerage                   -
Electricity                -
Sub-total (C)          196,900       218                         218
D. Design & Supervision
On-site Infrastructure  88,957          99           99
Off-site Infrastructure  9,845          11                           11
Sub-total (D)           98,802       110           99             11           50
Total Base Cost    2,119,942    2,350             825          1,475           50
(100%)        (35%)           (63%)        (2%)



- 115 -
ANNEX 5
Table 13
Zimbabwe Urban Development Project
HARARE: COST RECOVERY
HARARE SITE: MPG
Number of Plots: 2450
(Z$ July 83)
Total       Total               Recovery Source
Base      Cost Per       Plot                      Rate
Cost        Plot         Sales      Tariffs    (Supp.Chg.)
A.  Land Requisition         105,000       43           43
B.  Site Preparation
Cadastral Survey        122,500        50          50
C.  On-Site Preparation
Roads & Stormwater
Drainage            1,940,250       792         792
Water Supply            786,490       321                        321
Sewerage              1,602,090       654                        654
Electricity           1,041,250       425                        425
Street Lighting         169,050        69                                      69
Sub-total (C)       5,539,130    2,261          792          1,400           69
D.  Off-site Infra-
structure
Roads                   296,200       121                                     121
Water                 1,293,360       528                        528
Sewerage              1,000,200       408                        408
Electricity                   -         -
Sub-total           2,589,560    1,057                         936          121
E. Design & Supervision
On-site Infrastruc-    158,238         65          65
ture
Off-site Infrastruc-   276,957        113                        113
ture
Sub-total             435,195       178          65            113
Total Base Cost    8,791,385    3,589           950          2,449          190
(100%)       (25%)          (68Z)         (5%)



- 116 -
AMNX 5
Table 14
Zimbabwe Urban Developoent Project
WULAW&YO: COST NICOWIT
bnber of Plots: 4515
(Z$ July 83)
Total      Total                 Recovery Source
No. of     Base       Cost Per       Plot                       Rate
Plots      Cost         Plot         Sales       Tariffs    (Supp.Chg.)
SIS:
NKETA:
Section 6      1,089    2,018,285    1,851           600            775          476
Section 7      1,905    4,518,953    2,371           600          1,242          529
Section 8      1,521    2,211,142    1,452           600            613          239
TOTAL            4,515    8,748,380    5,674         1,800          2,630        1,244
(1001)       (32%)          (46%)        (22Z)



117 -                    ~~~~~ARME  5
- 117 -                        Table 15
Ziubabve Urban Develop ent Project
BULAVANO: COST RECOVERY
SITS: Section 6
_ ber of Plots: 1089
(w$ July 83)
Total                            Recovery Source
Base     Total Cost       Plot                  Rates
Cost      Per Plot        Sales     Tariffs   (supp.chg.)
A.  Site Preparation
Cadastral Survey    32,600           30            30 *
B.  On-siLte Infras-
tructure
Roads & Stormwater
Drainage         461,920          424          424 *
Water Supply       201,960          185                      185
Sewerage           264,016          242           103 *                   139
Electricity        364,545          334                      334
Street Lighting     43,636           40                                   40
Sub-total          1,336,077       1,225           529 *      519          179
C. Off-site Infras-
tructure
Roads              323,636          297                                   297
Water 
Sewerage              -
Electricity         145,454         134                      134
Sub-total (C)         469,090         431                      134          297
D. Design & Supervision
On-site Infrastruc-
ture             46,090           43            43
Off-site Infrastruc-
ture            133,609          122                      122           -
Sub-total (D)    180,518          165            43        122
Total Base Cost    2,018,285        1,851           600        775          476
(100Z)        (32x)       (42%)       (26%)
*  Items included to add up to $600.  Plot prices are based on cost per square meter
as assessed by the valuer and have no direct relation to actual costs. Therefore,
based on other cities experience, we have included costs for roads and storm water
drainage, cadastral survey and portion of sewerage costs to total Z$600 per plot.



- 118 -
ANEEI 5
Table 16
Zimbabwe Urban Development Project
3ULAMAYO: COST RECOVERY
SIIE Section 7
Number of Plots: 1905
(Z$ July 83)
Total      Total                  Recovery Source
Base      Cost Per       Plot                      Rate
Cost        Plot         Sales      Tariffs   (Supp. Chg.)
A.  Site Preparation
Cadastral Survey         76,200       40           40 *
B * On-site Tnfrastructure
Roads & Stormwater
Drainage              997,527      523          473                         50
Water Supply            360,218       189                        189 *
Sewerage                363,682      191                                     191
Electricity             571,500      300                         300 *
Street Lighting          81,395       43                                      43
Sub-total (B)      2,374,322    1,246           473           489          284
C. Off-site Infra-
structure
Roads                   468,182      245                                     245
Water
Sewerage
Electricity           1,196,363      628                         628
Sub-total (C)       1,664,545      873                        628          245
D. Design & Supervision
On-Site Infrastructure      166,454        87          87
Off-Site Infrastructure    237,432        125                        125
Sub-total (D)          403,886      212           87            125
TOTAL BASE COST      4,518,953    2,371          600          1,242         529
(100%)       (25%)          (522)       (22%)
*See note on Table 7



- 119 -
ANNEX 5
Table 17
Zimbabve Urban Development Project
BULAWAYO: COST RECOVERY
SITE: Section 8
Number of Plots: 1521
(Z$ July 83)
Total      Total                 Recovery Source
Base      Cost Per       Plot                       Rate
Cost        Plot         Sales       Tariffs   tSupp. Chg.)
A.  Site Preparation
Cadastral Survey         60,840        39           39 *
B. On-Site Preparation
Roads & Stormwater
Drainage              796,363       523          523 *
Water Supply            287,235       189                         189
Sewerage                290,9544      191           34                         157
Electricity             456,061       300                         300
Street Lighting          65,454        43                                       43
Sub-total (B)       1,896,067    1,246           557            489          200
C.  Off-site Thfra-
-st-ucture
Roads                       -
Water                      --
Sewerage                 58,753        39                                       39
Electricity                --
Sub-total (C)          58,753        39                                       39
D. Design & Supervision
On-Site Infrastructure         5,875         4           4
Off-Site Infrastructure    189,607         124           -            124
Sub-Total (D)         195,482       128            4            124
T-OTAL BASE COST    2,211,142    1,452          600*            613          239
(100%)       (41%)          (42%)        (16%)
*See note on Table 7.



- 120 -
ANNEX 5
Table 18
Zlmbabwe Urban Development Project
NBTkR: COST RBCOVERY
Sm: Devonsbhre
Number of Plots: 1522
(Z$ July 83)
Total      Total                Recovery Source
Base      Cost Per       Plot                      Rate
Cost        Plot         Sales       Tariffs   (Supp. chg.)
A.  Site Preparation
Cadastral Survey        114,150        75          75
B. On-site Iafrastrocture
Roads & Stormwater
Drainage              672,722       442         332                         110
Water Supply            482,700       317                        317
Severage                537,400       353                        353
Electricity             989,300       650                        650
Street Lighting         127,848        84          84
Sub-total (B)       2,809,970    1,846          416          1,320          110
C.  Off-site Infra-
structure
Roads                   332,100       218         -                           218
Water                 1,133,600       745         -              745
Sewerage                160,000       105         -              105
Electricity             180,000       118         -              118
Sub-total (C)       1,805,700    1,186                         968          218
D. Design & Supervision
On-site Infrastruc-    180,570        119          119
ture
Off-site Infrastruc-   280,997        185                        185
ture                                                                       _
Sub-total (D)         461,567       304         119            185            __
Total Base Cost    5,191,387    3,41]           610          2,473          328
(100%)       (18X)          (72%)        (10)



- 121 -
ANNE 5
Table 19
Zf umbae Urban Davelop.ent Project
HAS VINGO: OOST RECOVMEY
SITE: a.C. South
Number of Plots: 525
(Z$ July 83)
Total      Total                Recovery Source
Base      Cost Per       Plot                      Rate
Cost        Plot         Sales       Tariffs   (Supp. Chg.)
A.  Site Preparation
Cadastral Survey         28,350        54          54
B.  On-site Infrastructure
Roads & Stormwater
Drainage              395,936       754         754
Water Supply            197,106       375                        375
Sewerage                207,705       316                        396
Electricity               5,250        10                         10
Street Lighting           5,000        10                                      10
Sub-total (B)         810,997    1,545          754            781           10
C. Off-site Infra-
structure
Roads
Water                   417,000       794                        794
Sewerage                  -
Electricity               -___
Sub-total (C)         417,000       794                        794
D. Design & Supervision
On-site Infrastruc-
ture                 41,700       79           79
Off-site Infrastruc-
ture                 80,075       152                        152
Sub-total (D)         121,775       231          79            152
Total Base Cost    1,378,122    2,624           887          1,727           10
(IOOZ)       (34X)          (662)



SU1LDINO SOCIEIlES
PROORESS OF OUILDING SOCIETiES, 973-82
ASSETS
(St housana)
Year as at 31st December . . . .  .        1973         974         97           976         1977 1978                9199        3910        1981        1982
Morigage advances . .  . .  .  .  .   1225890        S259721      $265847  | 281 1335       297224     5316087      133775i |159172    2371617    5375882
Investments-
Government   . . . .  .  .  .          42487       43 852       34 125      36 840       47 792      73 685      102 164     127 310      100 568     8o 9S6
Mtunticipal  ,    . . ,   .  .  .       3045        3 185       271/3        2771         29867       2 933        1 727       2 192       1 142        1 341    ,
I.oaiis lo Govcrnmeni . .    .  .       5 193       9 023        9 982      12 643      IS 755       25 5I0       39 471      58 271      60 927      6 3354     N
Trc.isury Hills . . . .  .  .  .         645           40        1 130       1 832        3 926       1 041        2 776       2 380        1 519         98    9
TOTAL .           S51 370                  356 100      S48 000     S54 086      570 340    1103 169    S146 138    5390351 5364 356    254 749
Cash on hand   . . . . .  .                 1 391       1 746        I 09(        1 836       2 018       2 188        2 B57       3 317        3 756       3 1353
Casli at iank        .        .  .  .       1 621       2 185        5 367        1 559       2 133       2 306        5 888       6 167       9 098       17 350
Deposils willi oliter Insiltutlons  .  .  .  9 935      9 702       18 673      26 436       27 021      26 698       14 942      14 507       30 755     61 757
TotAL   . . .    .       .    212927       133633       525 130     529831       531 172     t31 192      523687      523991      543609       582260
Loans ala-iiist shares and deposits     ,   2 630       2 994        4 286       3 917        3 760       3 899        3 841       S 254       4 871        4 994
Intercst accrtued  on  Invesiments and
deposits  ......  I..                        630          608         650          751         768         1 123       1697        I 819        1 591       3 696
Duildings and Land   . . . .  .  .          6467        7698         930I        .9495        9712        9594         9919       12064        IS IS1      18665
Properly in possession . . .  .  .            71           54          67          233         640        I 114        1 674       1 754        1 454       1 346
Debtors    .    . ... ...                     00          179         148          421         434          211         296          172         635         952
Office equipmnent  .  , . .   . .  .  .      692          792         921         1 059       1 532        1 477       1 394       1 t88        2 475       2 1838
TOTAL   . .                 l .  . . 20590  2 32325    1153376   515886      S36846      537418       Us1821      t222971     $26179      530491
TOTAL ASsUTI    .  .  .  1300777    5341 719    2354 363       5380938      5415 582    5467 866    1526 398    5596287      5605 783    5613 132
_~~                              ~ =-    -_                                      -                          -                 -- -u       _
10



LTADILMES
(7 thoufand)
Yar as at 31st Daxmbcr .  . .  .          1973         1974        197S         1976        197?         1978        1979        1980         19t1        1982
___________________.____,_______,-______ _________                                                                    . -. ~
Share v3plial-
I'crinanent . .   . .        . .      144 96:     167965      175 939      180 582     182 461      191794      207076       222 427     255 636     267 49
t ixed     . .   .  . .  .  .           2 736       2 305        1 768       1 52S        I 37S       1 169       I 156         867          591       -
Subscripio    . . .  . .  .              918        1 334        1 436       1440         1  9        1 213        1 157       1 514       2 400        3 424
TOTAL  . . .  . .   5148 616    S171 604    S179 142    S183 547    S18S 158    3294 176    5209 389    5224 808    32S2 627      271 2713
Deposits- 
FilAe                                  39 888      42 726       38 302      37655       S9 543       78 624      96960       110010       68 120       53 481
Savings   .   .   .  . .  .            92 822    1 205 339     108 887     127 230      141 923     162 832      183712      221 265     232 302      262 872
TOTAL  . . .  *.          132710     t248065      5147189     5164885      t201466     S241456      5280672    5331275      t300406      5316353
Loans and overdrafts  . .   .  .           Si 068      S 586       55 603       S7 204         S63         S60          560        SO           t60         560
Acrued Interest  . .  ...  . .          2 725       2 954        3 202       3 456       4 056        4 665       5 781        6 701       9 829       14 505
Accrued dividends . . . .  . .          1 148       1 389        1 418       1 473        1 464       1 524        1 622       1 805       3 22         3 940
ToTAL    .  .              S3873       54343  |      4620       54929       S5520        156189  | 57403          28506      SI311        t81445
Stat'itoryresero .      .     . . .         7 362       8491         9 719      11019        12 343      13748        152317      16832        I8 495      21 143
Ucncra1 reserve    . .  .    .      .       5 068       5 847        5 997       6 490        6 940       7 790       8 830       to 019      10 672        8 757
ToTAL  . .  .  .  .         2 430     114 338       15 716     $17 509      319 233     $21 538      S24 06       26851      52967        529 900
Unapproprialed surplus   . .  *  .  .       1 334       1 85         1 263       1 866        1 622       1914        2173         1950           i   _
C editors and provisloios  . .  .  . .       746          658         830          998        2 470       2 533        2 634       2 837       4 312        6 258
TOTAL  . .  . .  .         5080            43       S2 093      52 864        4 092      S4 447       54 807      S4 781      tS 410       57 351
.-M-M-                                                    ---                                 --
ToTAL AIIT   .  .   $300 777    5141 779    5354 363         S380 938     5415 582    5467 866    5526 398    5596 287    S605 181    S613 382
I n
-   *   -                                      1     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t)U



-  124 -                                               ANNEX  6
Table 1
DETAILS O! 1ATS OF RUTUaX CALCULATIONS. SUELTSR PROGaAmS
ARADARS
4,787 plocs. 6,787 bastc units 14,361 rental units, iLfrastructure cost 14,717,00
sf ra- a,b/                           asnses Complete
Lend    structure       Rousing C/ Total        Start of Tear             enta-l Vain d/                  mar
Tear   Cost        Coat            Coat       Coat    Dealt       Rent-l       Bsic    Roena,i        Total    Denefft
(0100)     (000)           (00 0)    1         (       000)   (000)    (000)      (000)      IET         (000)
1        172        1,619             -      1,791         -            -          -           -          -      -1,791
2        172        9,419         1.915    11,506           -           -          -           -          -    -11,506
3        172        3.6-80       8 617      12,469     1,867            -        784          -         784    -11 685
4        172          294         5,744      6.210    4,787         3,159      3,010         948      2,958      -2,716
5        172          294         1,915      2,381    4,787        9,335       2.010      2,801      4,811        2,430
6        172          294           957      1,413    4,787        12,627      2.010      3,791      5801        4,378
7-30     172          294           383        849    4,787        14,361      2.010      4,308      6,318        5,469
irr-14 .0
BDL  SATO
4,515 plots. 4,515 basic unIts, 13,545 rental units, infrastructure cast 8,547,000
Infra- a/b/                           louses Complete
Land    structure       Roasing '1 Total        Start of Tear            Rental Value d/                  met
Tear   Coat        Coat            Cost       Cost    Basic       Rent-l       Basic    Renta1       Total    Banefit
(000)      (000)          (000)      (000)     (00T )       (000)      (000)       (000o      (000)      0oo0)
1        162          940             -      1,102         -            -          -          -           -      -1,102
2        162        5,470        1,80b       7,438         -            -          _     -                -      -7,438
3        362        2,137        8,127    10,426       1,761            -        740           -        740      -9,686
&        1o2          171        5,418       5,751     4,515       2,980       1,896        894      2,790       -2,961
5        162          1JI        1,806       2,139    4,515        8,804       1,896     2641       4,538        2,399
6        162          171           903      1,236    4,515       11,919       1,896      3,576      5,472        4,236
7-30    162           171           361        694    4,515       13,545       1,896      4,064      5,960        5,Z66
irr-17 .5
muT rIK
1,522 plots. 1,522 basic units, 4,56b rental units, infrastructure cost 4,724,000
otrfs- s,b/                           Rouses Complete
Land    structure       Housing c/ Total        Start of Tear            Rental Value dj                  Net
Tsar   Cost        Cost           Cost        Cost    Dasie       Rentl        Dante     Rental      Total    Denefit
(o00)      (000) TU(000)                       (000)        (0001      (000)      (000)      Th5oT       (000)
1         55         520              -         575        -            -          -          -           -        -575
2         55       3.023            6U9       3,687        -            -          -           -          -      -3,687
3         55       1,181         2,739        3,979      600            -        252          -         252      -3,727
4         55          94          1.826       1.975   1,522        12000         639        300         939      -1,036
5         55          94            609         758   1,522        3,000         639        900      1,539          781
6         55          94            304         453   1,522        4,000         639      1,200       1,839       1,386
7-30      55          94            122         271   1.522        4,566         639      1,370      2,009        1,738
irr-14 .0
RASVINCO
525 plots, 525 baslc units, 1,575 rental units, infrstructure cost. 1,490,000
Infre- a/bj                           Houses Complete
Land    structure       Housing  a/ Total       Start of Tear            Rental Value d/                  Net
Tear   Cost        Cost            Cost       Cost    Basic       Retasl       Bsic    RJental       Total    Benefit
-(000)     (u00)          (u0o00       (000)   (000)        (000)      (000)      (o00) 0000)            (00o)
1         19          164            -          183        -            -          -          -           -        -183
2         19          954         210         1,183        -            -          -           -          -      -1,183
3         19          372         945         1,336       52            -         22           -         22      -1,314
4         19           30         630           679      525          346        220        104         324        -373
5         19           30          210          Z59      525        1,024        Z20        307         527         268
6         19           30          105          154      525        1,386        2Z0        416         636         48Z
7-30      19           30           42           91      525        1.575        220        473         693         602
irr-14 .3
a/  Investsent patterns used in rate of return analysts:               Year   1   Z   3   4   5   6    7
Lnvestsent pattern for Infrastructure                       (;)          11  64  25
Investment pattern for housing                              tX)               10  45  30  10   5
Cospletion pattern for housing units (beginning year)(:)                          10  22  65  88  100
b/  Infrastructure Costs ln_lude 100 2 of on-site infrastructure and 401 of trunk infrastructure financed by
the project in Harare, 8ulawayo, and Nutare. In each of these cases, the projects shelter sites will use
considerably less than 40% of the trunk infrastructure. but full use by others wiLl be delayed.  In
Hasvingo. 850 of the off-site trunk Infrastructure is Included in the rate of return analysis because
other users of this capacity will be ainor for the near future. This treatnent of trunk infrastructure
coats probably leads to a slight underestismce of the rate of return.
c/  Rouoing costs for a basic unlt (wet core rooa  plus living rooa) and three additional rental reoa  is
approximately Z54,000 as of July 1984, and this is the cost used in this analysis.
d/  Rental values for similar housiug were approximately Z525 per rental room and Z535 for a basic unit, plus
a pro rats share of rates snd utility coat, at the tine of the appraisal mission. Since the housing
market was already .ery tight. it has been assumed that the sane sarket prices prevail in July 1984.



TABLR II - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF RATES OF RETURN
Net Benefits                                              Total Net Benefits
Benefits    Costs up 10%
Base   Costs up   Benefits   Delayed        Benefits down
Year     Hararea/  Bulawayoa/   Mutarea/   Masvingoa/    Case           10%     down 10%   by 1 year          10%
1        -1,791       -1,102        -575        -183        -3,651    -4,016      -3,651      -3,651        -4,016             1
2       -11,506       -7,438      -3,687      -1,183       -23,814   -26,195    -23,814    -23,814         -26,195
3       -11,685       -9,686      -3,727      -1,314       -26,412   -29,233    -26,592    -28,210         -29,413
4        -2,786       -2,961      -1,036        -373        -7,604    -9,066       -8,305    -12,817        -9,767             >
5         2,430        2,399         781         268         5,878      5,325       4,736       1,474         4,183
6         4,378        4,236       1,386         482        10,482    10,155        9,107      8,149         8,780
7         5,469        5,266       1,738         602        13,075    12,885       11,577      11,843        11,387
8-30      5,469        5,266       1,738         602        13,075    12,885       11,577      13,075        11,387
irr=15.3  irr-13.7   irr-13.5    irr-13.1    irr-12.0
a/ From Annex 6 Table 1
I&
a a~



[BRO D8162
Z  -10' -A MBI,A   2S                     SW                ca- I
<-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
BOTSWANA   >W -                        1
ZXI M B A 8 W E  s                                      -_
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   D   (
Project Towns
- Moto So-  R.od
-   Socdort Stole RPjdj
   Mo.n Alrpo,A             %/        < >            < \u
-  Proero,nj Coorlolts&U=    \  /A          \           $\/  c
P2__Iiroteorol Bowndores N'S\  CWUIEONr-2
o 0 St 5 0  1w 50oColETES  i      - R,O'v5,dg  r   O6b.. -d,.5
o5   lo     2,o r  x,Aw2r.| O!3,_                            3
R.i  SW27         2* - 



ZIMBABWE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUTARE PROJECT SiTE AND
PROPOSED OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
ZZ  Project Site                                           IRENE
-UCBD Boundary
Industriol Areo
Future High Cost Housing                                                              ...
Future Low Cost Housing
BuilIt-up Areas
-|--- Gimboki Outfall Sewer
I  o Treatment Works                    ---
Main Roads                                                                              DEVONSHIRE
Railway
Rivers
Municipal Boundary
International Boundaries
X      LGVEDALE
PrOpose
G__  \   t;,mb,                 DANGAMVURA
26-        28
16,                      C~~~>
Z A .UBi A        1                  
Z i MBA|WE
[20c
BOTSWAN A-
26'             28  ,2                          _ _    _ _   _ _   _ _    _ _   _ _   _   _ _   _ _3.2_             _ _
26'  28,~~~~~~~~3



IBRD  18163
MAY 19B4
-  :; '.,lpp/4 Moin                XN|SD
\              ~~~~~FLORIDA           |3 ORIGID    
-shrre Phoe 1\
(I .\MUTARE  /                                                                                  D
SAKUBVA
\                   +                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rO Vvmpbo
K KILOM EE RS
FE RN
-/o        \          VA,LEYl
-To AfoL  I d2, _-- --   



2 A M H  I A   J
_AM                                  ho A                                                     \.1        URBAN
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
\       ~~Z I M B A B W E         |                                           =\
eBO 1 ')W A N A    \/lr
K d                                                                                                    R
2^6      2S  {OUHJ AFkI9( A  N 
-~~~-Fo        t  oi    e on              \Iu   
Fonia.nsbteou                       ' . _ 
Warren Park
eJ~~~~~~~~~~~~ r, I
Crowborough
St Mfotions
Pse 1MPG
Glen View
Glenc-.
C     S Glen NorcM                                    |              -    X



IBRD 18164
MAY 1984
ZIMBABWE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HARARE PROJECT SITES
/  \  \  |  Proiect Sites
3 <  \[\ Industrial Area
Built-up Areas
Roads
Roilways
i  -   s- ers
international Boundaris
2   /                     2          S~~~~~~~t. Narfins      
/                             NI            Q    ~ ~       ~ ~      ~ ~       ~ ~~~ 1  2  3  4 KtILOMETERS
rrN. rr.S..nb     ..,hl .%..-c-r..,.wf~ v, '.ek .tabm.I  o.  ol r.. L144&1 flAnk  ;u. It,. tnIerbnn ,.
.o      .                 _                .              Ih   C--oP. .;;r frc r, ..  rI..'- . l, f b-.a S StrV a. r.. t. w ao It'
.IP rh o^~~~~~~~-     rr,,.r,r, -   ,   r. .JI:  r:>r).aw lscrr



IBRD 18165
ZIMBABWE                                                    M/                                          rre,                                                                  MAY 1958
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              ;
MASVINGO PROJECT SITE AND
PROPOSED OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                          -
Project Site
r7Z2  l.d.striol Aeo/
-            Proposed Bulk Supply MomB     u     M                                                    ,
--Fxtore Extension of Water Bulk SoUppl' ojMgin,   Bre., 
-      Existing Sewer
Built-p Area
Moin Roads
Roilry/
-0    R,vers /iI
---Municipcl  B.n.odiry
--Ixtereotioool Boundories              -                                                     t                        
Q~~
MASVINGO
-  -  -   -   -   -  -                        Z6 r -  ----                                  /
/          /                  /                               )                 il                          2                  / A ht B R A    >                      \~~~~~~~-  x    ~ 2t 
N \I          ZIMBABWE                o
xxxOrrTEES                                                                                                          N /                                                                / N  -30    \   4  -2a-   .   vMosfino   %
ewet, \o*,                                                        2                                               BOTSWANA  i                           r
_roxe.z-wRre~  T,S&de.7 SOrts                                                                                                                         / fr



ZIMBABWE
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                         North Trenonce                       '
BULAWAYO PROJECT SITES                                                                                                           y
|        1 Project Sites                                                                   -e,
Industriol Areas
Built-up Areas
Roads 
Railways                     Luveve
-~  Rivers
Internotional Boundories
Y 0~~
BU ULAWAY 0/ 
Pumulo
- Pelandoba
C~~~bo ~ ~ ~    ~    Tslbe*i
-Ibs  i5   i8'  ,,  t  s    ^   le]             ~~umganin                                                                |
ZAMBIA
K-b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
>   ft                  <i3FScrore   13                 \/ <             \                              -Icral
\ ~~~~~Z I M   B A B.W E Jo/ i
V                                 , BI|BAB/ E  /                                                         0
20,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-20'     '<        ebI0wcV0)*                                              \                                                               
BOTSWANA
-22'                                        22
26        2S  ,-      4 SCWT/,                                                                        Jo, M2opa,



IBRD 18166
MAY 1984
O                        2             3            4KILOME7ERS
rth  Trenance                                        -'rp" m-vW ,. .- w.p.IM  by rh . W.Rd 11w. s sLCJ -cfs-* to, t c.o                                   r o
rh'. r1.jb0. .lnd .s -.cw-..4* 1 lh-orW -d.n* uoo of rhr. Wild fw.a aand U  I,fnJO.l
RF-Z  Coa.'".,- Ft..    flwr    n.ur .0. Ihr bo..rs shan n, Ihs  O do Mt,
t n 1.V2 f hW eV,&1 R.-& m.ld F.' .-1-OrIn FF;,w.. Cop ho.  wr. .n.Wi
;o tb* 4hi  h. . fl y .fa V t-r     Onv rndor' k l. vd    of     of .ol , b eo.,s
;                             =              ~~~~~~~~Kurnolo 
MatsheumMope
to too0,                                                          Ta ;on~ /or ,o,nrc






