Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3832-ZIM
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$43.0 MILLION
TO
ZIMBABWE
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 29, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAkLENTS
US$1.00  =  Z$1.04
Z$1.00      US$0.96
ABBREVIATIONS /ACRONYMS
CATS    -      Contractor Advice and Training Service
CDC     -      Commonwealth Development Corporation
MCNH    -      Ministry of Construction and National
Housing
MFEPD   -      Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning
and Development
MLGTP   -      Ministry of LDcal Government and Town
Planning
MT      -      Ministry of Transport
PCMU    -      Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit
ZAAT    -      Zimbabwe Association of Accounting
Technicians
ZTSB    -      Zimbabwe Traffic Safety Board
GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMABWE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Government of Zimbabwe.
Amount:       US$43.0 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:         Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace with vari-
able interest rate.
Cofinancing:  Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), United Kingdom.
Objectives    The first Bank Group financed urban project in Zimbabwe would
& Project     introduce structural change in the housing market and help
Description:  increase the supply of affordable, low-cost housing and re-
lated urban services.  It would also strengthen the Govern-
ment's efforts to improve operations and maintenance of urban
infrastructure and services through manpower development and
training programs. The project would support Government pol-
icy initiatives and directions in key areas of urban develop-
ment and stimulate private sector activities.  More specifi-
cally, the project would:
(i)    provide urban residential land and community facili-
ties, especially for poorer segments of the urban pop-
ulation;
(ii)   provide long-term housing financing from the private
sector to lower-income beneficiaries (owner occupiers
who would choose the mode of construction);
(iii)  strengthen  institutions  and  streamline  procedures
through revised division of labor and responsibilities
among key public and private institutions operating in
the urban sector.  To support this, extensive on-the-
job training programs and technical assistance to cen-
tral and local governments are included; and
(iv)   improve urban transport.
Benefits      Direct quantifiable benefits would be provision of housing at
& Risks:      affordable standards to the poorer segments of the urban pop-
ulation.  Indirect benefits include upgraded urban transport
conditions, manpower development and training, and innovative
institutional as well as procedural improvements, especially
in housing finance. Main project risks relate to (i) contin-
uity of the urban development program to fully realize
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
the expected longer-term benefits and (ii) loss of qualified
staff.  To minimize risks, provision for the preparation of
future investments has been included; and assuming continued
receptivity to Bank advice, further support is foreseen.
Also staffing and training arrangements have been initiated
including the provision of technical assistance.
Estimated Cost
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total
1. Urban Residential Infrastructure
& Services                         33.0       6.2     39.2
2. Housing Finance                             33.1      14.1     47.2
3. Institutional Development                    0.5       5.2      5.7
4. Urban Transport & Traffic Management         1.0       1.7      2.7
Total Base Cost                             67.6     27.2      94.8
Physical Contingencies                       3.4      0.7       4.1
Price Contingencies                         11.5      2.1      13.6
Total Project Cost a/                       82.5     30.0    112.5
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                   --       0.1       0.1
Total Financing Required                    82.5     30.1    112.6
Financing Plan          :                             Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                  27.0      16.0     43.0
CDC                    -         9.6       9.6
Building Societies   33.1        4.5      37.6
Government            22.4       -        22.4
TOTAL                82.5      30.1    112.6
a/ Taxes and duties amount to US$4.8 million equivalent.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                                  (US$ Million)
FY         85   86   87   88   89   90
Annual         0.4  7.0 17.8 12.7  4.5  0.6
Cumulative    0.4  7.4 25.2 37.9 42.4 43.0
Rate of
Return:        15.3 percent.
Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 5023-ZIM, dated May 29, 1984.
Map:           No. IBRD 18162.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO ZIMBABWE
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
0            loan to Zimbabwe for US$43.0 million payable in 20 years, including five
years of grace with variable interest rates, to help finance an Urban
Development Project. The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) of the
United Kingdom has agreed to participate in the financing of the project
with a loan of US$9.6 million equivalent, payable in 20 years, including
seven years of grace with an interest rate of 9.5 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "Zimbabwe -- Country Economic Memorandum" (No.
3234-ZIM), was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1981. Since
then a second economic mission as well as sector missions visited the
country.   Their major findings  are incorporated  in the following para-
graphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
3.        Zimbabwe is a landlocked country of about 390,000 sq km, bordered
by Mozambique on the east, Botswana on the southwest, Zambia on the north-
west and the Republic of South Africa on the south. The population in 1983
was estimated to be 7.5 million, 98 percent of whom are of African origin.
The non-African population of the country consists of about 120,000
Europeans,  10,000 Asians and 23,000 people of mixed origin.   The growth
rate of the African population is estimated to be about 3.4 percent per
year, while the number of white Zimbabweans has been declining due to
emigration.
4.          In 1982 GNP per capita was US$850.  Distribution of income and
assets, however, is extremely skewed.  The Land Tenure Act of 1969 updated
legislation of the 1930s and confirmed division of the country's total land
area into roughly two equal parts for African and European settlements.
The Europeans possessed most of the best land with Africans being
restricted to communal areas with generally inferior farming conditions.
Given the difference in the size of the populations of the two groups, the
division resulted in an allocation at independence of approximately 2.5 ha
per African and 65.2 ha per non-African. Similar disparities exist in the
distribution of other productive assets and income.   In 1978 the average
annual cash earnings for A,ricans were roughly one tenth of the level of
Europeans.
5.          Prior to independence, the economic development of the country
was affected by two major events.  Following the Unilateral Declaration of
Independence (UDI) in 1965, external relations were subject to economic
sanctions imposed by the international community.  However, the sanctions



- 2 -
were only partially effective.   Between 1965 and 1974, real GDP grew at
about 7 percent per year and per capit:a income at about 3.5 percent.  While
exports continued to expand, the sanctions stimulated development of local
import substitution capacity, so that by 1979, consumer goods were only
about 10 percent of total imports, compared with 22 percent in 1964.  Sanc-
tions also encouraged the diversification of commercial agriculture and the
rapid growth of investment in and exports from the mining sector.
6.         The second major pre-independence event with considerable socio-
economic effects was the civil war between 1975 and 1979.  This, together
with increases in the oil price and two droughts, caused an economic down-
turn with real per capita income falling by 35 percent to its 1965 level.
While the value of exports rose slightly, even during that period, the
dramatic increase in the cost of imports, in particular oil, made it neces-
sary to restrict imports drastically.   As a result, domestic output, real
investment, and employment also declinezd significantly.
7.        At independence, the Government was faced with a number of diffi-
cult issues including  (i) the extremely unequal distribution of income,
capital,  landholding,  and access  to  basic  social  services;  (ii)  rapid
growth of population and labor force; (iii) a physical capital stock which
was to some degree depleted and out-of-date as a result of sanctions and
the civil war; (iv) the loss of skilled manpower; and (v) unsettled intern-
al and external socio-political problems with considerable economic reper--
cussions including transport bottlenecks and higher freight costs.
8.          Despite these constraints, the new Government inherited a well-
diversified economy with good potential for growth and with a sophisticated
administrative and physical infrastructure.   The economy is well balanced
with large and diversified agriculture, manufacturing and mining sectors
contributing 11 percent (16 percent before recent droughts), 21 percent and
6 percent, respectively, of GDP in 1983, and together providing 48 percent
of formal  employment.   Agriculture  and  forestry account  for more  than
260,000 jobs or 26 percent of the total; manufacturing for 175,000 jobs and
mining for 60,000. Most of the remaining formal employment is provided by
service sectors such as domestic services, public administration, and
education. Mining and agriculture earn significant amounts of foreign ex-
change and supply most inputs for manufacturing, which in turn accounts for
between 30 and 35 percent of Zimbabwe's merchandise exports, mainly proces-
sed agricultural products, steel, and ferrochrome.
9.         After independence, the Government took several measures to en-
courage growth with more equitable distribution of income. In the expecta-
tion of greater availability of external resources, including aid, public
expenditures were increased, foreign exchange allocations were raised and
monetary policy was relaxed. To improve incomte distribution, minimum wages
were increased and restrictions were placed on dismissal of employees.
Public expenditures on social services, particularly education and health
were expanded, and government outlays for rural development, including
resettlement and rehabilitation programs, were increased.



- 3 -
10.       While the Government espouses a socialist philosophy with strong
elements of nationalism, it has been pragmatic in its dealing with the pri-
vate sector, as well as in the conduct of its economic policies. Foreign
exchange allocations are tightly administered and there is a wide range of
price controls, but these were inherited from the pre-independence govern-
ment. The new Government is honoring commitments on external debt made by
the previous government and has been attempting to attract overseas inves-
tors into the country. Also, no fundamental changes in trade practices
have been introduced in relations with South Africa.
11.       In 1980 and 1981, the economy rebounded strongly under the im-
petus of a bumper crop, growth of exports, high gold prices, improvement in
the terms of trade, inflow of external funds, and expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies. As a result, imports rose by 45 percent in 1980 and 23
percent in 1981, facilitating increase in capacity utilization. Growth was
extremely strong in agriculture, which benefited from good weather in 1980
and 1981 and incentives provided by the Government's price policy. Conse-
quently, real growth of GDP was 11 percent in 1980 and 15 percent in 1981.
12.       While the domestic economy was performing strongly, there was
evidence of strain on balance of payments, a result of rapidly rising fac-
tor payments associated with retirement of civil servants and emigration,
remittances of companies' profits and dividends together with burgeoning
imports in 1980 and 1981. The current account deficit rose from Z$194 mil-
lion in 1980 to Z$580 million in 1982, or 12 percent of GDP. The Govern-
ment had to draw increasingly on private external loans with predominantly
short-term maturities and other nonconcessional terms since foreign aid in-
flow was slower than anticipated.
13.       In 1982, there was a dramatic turnaround in the economy as the
world recession caught up with Zimbabwe, exports faltered and gold prices
fell. In addition, the agricultural sector together with agro-industries
were severely affected by the first of what has proved to be three years of
successive severe drought. Foreign exchange allocations had to be reduced
in 1982 and 1983, which restricted the supply of imported inputs. This, in
turn, contributed to a decline of domestic activity. In 1982, real GDP
fell by almost two percent and, after four years of growth, employment
stagnated. In 1983 the continuation of drought, world recession and de-
clining foreign exchange caused a further reduction of GDP by more than two
percent and a loss of employment.
14.       Facing a deteriorating balance of payments situation and rising
inflation, the Government took measures in the course of 1982 and 1983 to
curb the growth of domestic demand and encourage exports. The Zimbabwean
dollar was devalued, import allocations, travel allowances and profit re-
mittances were cut back, minimum wages were frozen, food and transport sub-
sidies and other government expenditures were reduced, tax rates were in-
creased and growth of money supply and credit expansion were restrained.
These were prudent measures taken in a responsible manner by the Government
even though these policies contributed to a slowdown in the pace of social



- 4 -
reforms and an increase of the price level.  The package of policy measures
was also supported by the IMF with which the Government agreed on a stabi-
lization program in April 1983.
15.       The Government has recently introduced new policy changes in the
wake of continued adverse economic conditions. In February 1984, the
Government adopted a supplementary budget, mainly to finance subsidies of
agricultural marketing boards, increase wages in education and defense ex-
penditures and provide additional assistance to drought stricken areas.
The supplementary budget included some Z$300 million of additional expendi-
tures and added about Z$100 million to the overall budget deficit.  New
foreign exchange measures were introduced in March 1984 in the anticipation
of imports of food which will be necessary as a result of a partial failure
of the present maize harvest. These naeasures included temporary suspension
of payments of dividend and profit remittances, reduction of emigrants'
settling-in allowances, acquisition of externally-registered securities,
release of blocked funds of companies and suspension of income remit-
tances. The Government has indicated that these foreign exchange measures
are designed to be temporary and that inflationary pressure will be con-
tained by appropriate monetary policies. The Government and the IMF are
discussing a new stabilization program in light of recent policy changes.
16,      Zimbabwe's future growth of income and employment will be cons-
trained primarily by the balance of payments. The debt-service ratio of
about 25 percent in 1983 is considered by the Government to be too high and
the Government intends to refrain from further borrowing, except on conces-
sional terms and for development projects. Hence, the financing of imports
and debt service will be increasingly lependent on the growth of exports.
17.       The promotion of exports must therefore, be a continued high pri-
ority of the Government. Another important priority for future growth is
the need to increase the level of- domestic savings. This is underlined by
the fact that foreign assistance is un:Likely to be sufficient for the fin-
ancing of necessary investment. A furl:her constraint is the high level of
spending by the Government, which is a net dissaver thus reducing resources
normally available for investment in the private sector.  Also, public exp-
enditures are biased towards recurrent expenditures while capital outlays
have been progressively cut.
18,       Given these constraints, the prospiects for a return to a rapid
growth of income and employment in the medium term are not encouraging. In
the short run, the primary objective of the Government is to continue with
the stabilization of the balance of payments situation, which will require
further pursuit of prudent fiscal and monetary policies. Fiscal policy
will have to concentrate on a reduction of the budget deficit. The mone-
tary authorities will have to restrict growth in the supply of credit and
only allow moderate growth in the money supply in line with development of
real GDP. Since these policies tend to restrain the growth of domestic
demand, it is important that producers be given appropriate incentives, in
particular by flexible exchange rate and price policies.



19.       In the longer term, Zimbabwe's growth potential can only be ful-
ly exploited if the Government pursues vigorously a comprehensive develop-
ment strategy which would include (i) the provision of incentives for both
domestic and foreign investment, (ii) accelerated development of technical
and managerial skills of the African population, (iii) the promotion of
agricultural output and incomes, especially in communal areas, (iv) the
restructuring of public expenditures with a view to encouraging investment,
and (v) the provision of incentives to and institutional support for tradi-
tional as well as new exports.
20.       Zimbabwe emerged from 15 years of sanctions and the civil war
with relatively low external indebtedness. In December 1980, foreign debt
totalled US$700 million and the country's gross foreign exchange reserves
equaled about US$176 million, or an estimated two months of imports. By
the end of 1983, public foreign debt outstanding amounted to US$1.2 billion
and the debt service ratio increased from 4 percent in 1980 to some 25 per-
cent in 1983. This rapid rise in debt service reflects heavy external bor-
rowings with relatively hard terms.   Debt service obligations are expected
to remain relatively high throughout the remainder of this decade.  How-
ever, the ratio should fall towards the end of the decade, if short-term
borrowing on nonconcessional terms is avoided. In the past, the Government
has acted fairly responsibly and promptly to changing economic and finan-
cial conditions and Zimbabwe has been scrupulous about servicing its debt.
In light of this and the country's potential for future growth and develop-
ment, Zimbabwe is creditworthy for Bank lending. However, given the coun-
try's large external resource requirements, the expected high level of
international interest rates and relatively hard repayment terms of non-
concessional borrowing, as well as domestic savings constraints, Zimbabwe
needs part of its external assistance for local cost financing. Also, the
country would continue to need part of the foreign aid on concessionary
terms for priority development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       Before 1965, the Bank made five loans totaling US$140.3 million
benefiting Rhodesia -- two directly to the Government for agriculture
(US$5.6 million) and power (US$28.0 million), two loans totaling US$87.7
million to the Central African Power Corporation (CAPCO), and a US$9.0 mil-
lion loan to the Rhodesia Railways. As a guarantor of each of the loans,
the United Kingdom serviced them after 1964. The loans for agriculture and
railways have been repaid, and CAPCO resumed servicing its two loans after
the lifting of sanctions on December 21, 1979. During FY81, the Bank and
the Association approved a loan of US$50 million and a credit of US$15 mil-
lion for the Manufacturing Rehabilitation Imports Program. The loan
(1959-ZIM) and the credit (1120-ZIM) financed priority import requirements
of raw materials, spare parts, and components and balancing equipment
needed to utilize idle capacity in the manufacturing sector. The Bank also
approved a loan (1994-ZIM) of US$42 million to finance import requirements
of spare parts, track maintenance equipment and tools for the railways,
equipment for the Central Mechanical Equipment Department and technical
assistance. A summary statement of Bank Group operations is provided in
Annex II.



- 6 -
22.       IFC's first investment in Zimbabwe, approved by its Board in
February 1981, was in the Wankie Colliery Company Limited, to help finance
a project for producing coal for a thermal power station. The original
investment was in the form of a US$36 milllon loan (552-ZIM), including
participations but was subsequently reduced to a total of US$22.8 million,
of which US$12.0 million was for IFC's own account and US$10.8 million for
commercial bank participation. IFC was also involved in arranging a
commercial bank financing of US$10.3 million related to a loan by tlle US
Export-Import Bank. In March 1984 the Board approved IFC's second
investment in Zimbabwe, in UDC Limited, a hire purchase/factoring company.
The aggregate amount of US$2.3 million equivalent, of which US$2.0 million
would be in the form of a loan, and the balance in the form of equity will
assist in the expansion of the Company's capital base and in the localiza-
tion of ownership.
23.       The Bank is identifying and preparing projects for family healt'h
agriculture, rural development, transport, energy, and industrial develop-
ment through the recently established Zimbabwe Development Bank. A Small
Farm Credit project, approved by the Board in September 1982, will provide
the Agricultural Finance Corporation with funds for seasonal loans and for
medium- and long-term loans for equipment and farm improvements, as well as
technical assistance. A Petroleum Fuels Supply Technical Assistance proj--
ect was also approved in September 1982. A Power project, approved by the
Board in December 1982, will enhance electric generating capacity throughla
extension of the Hwange Thermal Power Station. It also includes construc--
tion of a transmission line, technical assistance and training. In Feb-
ruary 1983, the Board approved a Manufacturing Export Promotion project-,
designed to increase Zimbabwe's export earnings. Projects to improve
Zimbabwe's road transport system and support rural afforestation were ap-
proved by the Board in May 1983. A project strengthening national agricul-
tural extension and research programs was presented to the Board in August
1983 along with a railway development project.
24.       The Bank has reviewed the agricultural, energy, urban, education
and manpower, population, healt'h and nutrition, and telecommunications sec-
tors, for which most reports have been completed.
25.       Since Bank lending to Zimbabwe is very recent, Bank Group ex-
posure is still very low. At the end cf 1983, the Bank accounted for 6
percent and IDA and the Bank combined for about 7 percent of Zimbabwe's
external public debt.
PART III -- THE URBAN SECTOR
Stage of Urbanization
26.       About 1.7 million people or 23 percent of Zimbabwe's population
live in urban areas. Urban growth is lLkely tc remain high during the next
two decades ranging from 7-10 percent per year, due to natural population



- 7 -
increase and migration from rural areas. The factors causing rapid urbani-
zation are similar to those in other African countries during the post-
independence period and include relaxation of pre-independence migration
restrictions, population pressure from farmers living in poorly endowed
rural areas, and higher urban average incomes.
Spatial Distribution of Population and Economic Activities
27.       Zimbabwe's spatial urban distribution is well balanced since all
main urban areas throughout the country are connected through a relatively
well-developed communication infrastructure, have surplus service land for
industrial development and are adjacent to concentrations of rural popula-
tions.  A more detailed analysis of spatial distribution and development of
the country's 15 principal urban centers is contained in a forthcoming
urban sector report. Favorable transport links, marketing channels, and
scope for agricultural, industrial, and mining activities were contributory
factors to this pattern of balanced urban development. Consequently, the
urban influx can be expected to be absorbed across a broad front, with the
secondary towns absorbing a fair share of the growth.
28.       Efficient urban centers will continue to be crucial factors for
Zimbabwe's future socio-economic development and the well-being of its pop-
ulation since a considerable part of national income and employment has
been and will continue to be provided by the comparatively well-developed
industry and mining sectors and the expanding informal urban sector. More
than 80 percent of GDP and some 70 percent of wage employment have been
generated by non-agricultural activities. The extreme dualism of
Zimbabwe's economy, however, presents the country with immense challenges
in both the urban and rural sectors. Growth in employment and income need
to be more broadly based including economic activities in rapidly growing
urban centers, improvement in productivity in communal farm areas and ex-
ploitation of underutilized agricultural lands. Because of at least tem-
porary shortage of employment opportunities in many rural areas and in-
creased migration to the urban centers, the Government has given priority
to urban development and has asked for Bank assistance. The analysis pro-
vided in the forthcoming urban sector report supports this priority and
recommends Bank involvement for the purpose of improving and expanding
urgently needed services, supporting sound sector policies, and strengthen-
ing institutions.  Principal responsibilities and activities of institu-
tions operating in the urban sector are summarized in paras. 53-60.
Emerging Trends
29.       Urban centers in Zimbabwe traditionally have provided very good
services to urban residents thanks to high standards of infrastructure and
maintenance. They have enjoyed a high degree of administrative and finan-
cial autonomy (paras. 55/56). Certain trends have emerged that threaten
continuation of the high standard of past performance by local govern-
ments. An increased inflow of mainly low-income migrants combined with
limited public resources created higher demand for urban services while the



- 8 -
available resources tended to remain virtually unchanged or even dimin-
ished.  Also, the exodus of experienced staff compounded the difficulties
the municipalities have been facing recently.  An important policy objec-
tive, therefore, is to initiate private sector participation in the urban
sector  in order to mobilize additional  resources,  and  to use available
limited funds more effectively.
30o       Historically, Zimbabwe's urban development has been supported by
both the private and public sector in a framework where demand for low-cost
housing was controlled, and available public resources were sufficient for
housing investment for this limited demand.   Among private institutions,
building societies have proved to be effective financial intermediaries
operating in a basically free market system.  They have been well managed
and have been financially strong  (paras. 40/51).   However,  in the past,
their activities were confined to middle and upper income clients.  Public
sector capital outlays on the other hand were directed to lower income
urban households.   More  recent  developments,  however,  have created new
challenges for the Government and local, authorities.   Emigration of white
Zimbabweans eased the demand pressure on higher standard houses while in-
come of black citizens grew slowly and their earning power only gradually
raised levels of affordabilily.  Therefcre, because of depressed demand for
housing from upper income residents, privately owned and operating building
societies are considering a diversification of their operations to maintain
their level of activities.   On the other hand, the public housing program
for lower-income beneficiaries, managed by local authorities, is facing
funding problems due to the Government's financial  austerity program and
concomitant budget cuts as well as increasing demand by the growing lower-
income urban population.
Secior Dialogue_and New Policies
31.       In view of these rapidly changing conditions for housing develop-
ment and finance for both local authorities and building societies, an in-
novative approach was called for.  One of the principal new ideas was to
tap private sources of funds to support: low-cost housing, primarily from
building societies.   The Bank's urban sector report concluded that a re-
structuring of the housing market, that would place the supply of low--cost
housing finance on a commercial basis, was necessary and feasible.  Follow-
ing discussions between the Government and the Bank on this issue, the Gov-
ernment is now including in its policies the involvement of building soci-
eties in the low-income housing market, thus introducing the potential for
a permanent and revolving supply of urgently needed additional funds. The
Government's housing policies in general are supply-oriented and effective.
To the extent that regulations have been introduced, they are pragmatic and
are implemented responsively taking into account market conditions.
32.         As another important element of the new urban shelter program,
the Government is adopting the principle of low-cost minimum housing stan-
dards.   This approach would increase considerably the number of potential
beneficiaries, both as owner occupiers (about 11,000 families) and tenants



- 9 -
(some 34,000 families), especially those in the lower income categories and
will thus have a substantial impact in easing poverty. Estimates suggest
that the affordability could be extended so that families well below the
urban poverty threshold of some US$120 per month per household (at the 13th
percentile of the household income distribution) could be reached, compared
to the 85th percentile and above under current programs (para. 65).
Another vital part of the new urban strategy is the concentration of the
responsibiliy of local authorities on the increased supply and servicing of
urban residential land necessary to meet growing demand. This is an area
where local authorities are uniquely qualified and the proposed new divi-
sion of labor and responsibility between public and private institutions
should help improve efficiency in the urban sector as a whole.
33.       The success of the urban investment program depends to a large
extent on the continued efficiency of the local authorities. During proj-
ect preparation, an evaluation of manpower trends and training needs con-
firmed the need for maintaining the standards and performance of the main
urban services. Staff losses by the local authorities at all skill levels
have been considerable and replacement of qualified personnel is therefore
essential. A shift away from large numbers of professional staff to
greater dependence on sub-professional and technician staff will be an
effective solution to manpower constraints. To that end, training programs
are needed to establish depth at the technician levels, primarily through a
focus on on-the-job training. The Government has recognized the need for a
comprehensive training program and major training activities are being
planned or initiated.
34.       As requested by the Government, the Bank prepared a sector report
and initiated a policy dialogue with the Zimbabwean authorities. During
this process, the proposed first urban development project was identified
and prepared. Principal findings and recommendations of the sector study
-- on which project preparation was based -- included (i) the rapid pace of
urbanization probably in excess of the Government's earlier expectation;
(ii) the need to maintain sound financial policies of municipalities; (iii)
the crucial role of qualified and experienced personnel for continued ef-
fective operation of local authorities; (iv) the need to define appropriate
new standards affordable by a larger number of lower income beneficiaries
and to adjust urban services to the combined effects of accelerating urban-
ization, lower average urban income levels and limited public resources;
and (v) the need to exploit the largely untapped potential for private sec-
tor activities, particularly in the long-term financing of expanded resi-
dential housing programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed urban proj-
ect in Zimbabwe. Shortly after independence, the Government asked for Bank



- 10 -
assistance in the urban sector and the Government and Bank developed an in-
tensive dialogue on sector issues and priorities. Bank involvement in the
sector is timely because new policy directions are being established and
resource mobilization and allocation are being reconsidered.  The proposed
project would be concentrated essentially in the country's four largest
cities and economic centers: Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and Masvingo, repre-
senting a population of 1.2 million or 70 percent of the country's urban
population. These cities also support: the majority of economic activities
in the modern directly productive and infrastructure sectors. They were
selected for this first urban development operation primarily on the basis
of priority criteria such as population pressure, economic and employment
base, proximity to major rural areas, and living conditions for poorer
residents.
36.       The project was appraised in October 1983, and negotiations were
held in Washington from April 23-27, 1984. The Zimbabwean delegation was
led by Mr. A. Nduna, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Economic Plan-
ning and Development. The Staff Appraisal R'eport, No. 5023-ZIM is being
circulated separately. A loan and project summary is given at the begin-
ning of this report.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The proposed project is designed to introduce structural improve-
ments in the housing market in Zimbabwe to create the financial and insti-
tutional capacity for significantly increasing the supply of affordable
low-cost housing and related services in urban areas. The project would
also strengthen the Government's efforts to maintain the technical capacity
and financial performance of the local authorities for operating and
maintaining essential urban infrastructure and services. Finally, the
project would provide support in key areas of urban development where new
policy directions are currently being initiaCed such as urban transporta-
tion.
38.       The project, to be implemented over a five-year period, would
consist of the following main components:
(i) provision of serviced urban land and community
facilities for residential development, especially
for poorer segments of the urban population;
(ii) provision of long-term housing finance from the
private sector to lower-income beneficiaries
(owner occupiers who would freely choose the mode
of construction);
(iii) strengthening of institutions and procedures
through on-the-job training programs for local
authorities, and technical assistance to central
and local governments for improved urban invest-
ment planning; and



- Li -
(iv) urban transport including transport supply
studies, road safety support, assistance in devel-
oping transport planning capabilities, and public
transport improvement measures.
39.       Serviced Urban Residential Land.  The project would provide some
11,500 serviced residential plots in the country's four principal cities:
Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and Masvingo. About 70 percent of the plots are
at the minimum size of 300 sq m and the remainder are 450-600 sq m. The
project would meet some 40 percent of the estimated growth in demand for
housing in the project cities based on the current plot occupancy ratios of
3-4 families per plot. About 11,500 families would be owner occupiers and
some 34,000 families would be tenants. Other sub-components include ser-
vicing of land for industrial and commercial development and off-site in-
frastructure. The project would also provide for community facilities such
as primary schools, clinics and markets. The design of the facilities is
based on recently revised minimum standards of construction. Final designs
based on minimum standards will be submitted to the Bank for approval prior
to bidding (Section 3.06 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Government
confirmed that appropriate budgetary allocations would be made to ensure
the efficient operations of these clinics and schools to be constructed
under the proposed project (Section 3.01 (b)(iii) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
40.       Housing Finance.  An innovative and key feature of the project is
the mobilizing of private sector resources and the linking of private fin-
ancing with public low-income housing programs. Together with the Common-
wealth Development Corporation (CDC) of the United Kingdom, arrangements
have been worked out establishing an effective linkage including (i) the
provision of a long-term loan of the equivalent of US$9.6 million to the
building societies at prevailing average borrowing cost through cofinancing
from CDC; (ii) Government agreement on the waiver of the usual liquidity
requirements for building societies' funds for low-cost housing; and (iii)
establishment of coordinating procedures between the cities, the building
societies, and the beneficiaries. Government agreed to take all necessary
measures to ensure that the housing finance component is implemented on the
basis of criteria consistent with those for plot allocation. These
criteria were reviewed and agreed during negotiation (Section 3.01 (b) (iv)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Housing finance will be provided by the building societies in the
amount of US$37.6 million equivalent. To the extent that funds from both
the building societies and CDC, totalling US$47.2 million equivalent, would
exceed the projected demand for low-cost housing finance for the serviced
plots prepared under the proposed project they would serve as a line of
credit for other public low-cost housing projects. The signing of an
agreement between the Government and CDC and the fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (excluding the effectiveness of
the Bank loan agreement) will be a special condition of effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Institutional Development.  The project would support an
on-the-job training program, which is consistent with a gradual shift
towards trade schools and accreditation procedures that recognize and
reward skills acquired through on-the-job training and related experience
in addition to the existing polytechnic-based apprenticeship programs.



- 12 -
This project component is estimated to bridge a 3-4 year timelag before a
more flexible vocational training scheme emnerges that will provide a stealdy
flow of skilled manpower.
43.       The project will provide on-the-job training for professional,
sub-professional, technical and skilled personnel in various key depart-
ments of local authorities where serious staff shortages exist and local
training presently is insufficient. Some 850 trainees will participate in
thie proposed training program over 3.5 years. A total of 23.5 consultant
staff-years, have been foreseen for t'his project component. In addition,
the project would support the establishment of the Zimbabwe Association of
Accounting Technicians (ZAAT). Concurrently Government, supported by con-
sultants is preparing a training program to reflect longer-term manpower
needs of local authorities, taking into account the loss of experienced
staff. A training coordinator will be responsible for monitoring the in-
service training program and ensuring its complementarity with the Govern-
ment's long-term overall manpower development program currently under prep-
aration.
44.       The project would also strengthen government institutions in
order to improve urban management and investment planning through a Program
Coordination and Monitoring Unit. (PCMIJ) to be set up in the Ministry of
Local Government & Town Planning (MLG1'P). This unit would help provide
guiidance and assistance to local authorities in capital budgeting and
development planning, and help ensure overall coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of the project.
45.       Urban Transport and Traffic Management.  This component would
support the establishment of an Urban Transport Unit (UTU) in MLGTP to pro-
mote the development of appropriate urban transport policies, help manage
sound urban transport projects and strengthen road safety training and en--
forcement. Improvements in road safety and enforcement would be supported
through the provision of technical assistance and equipment to the Zimbabwe
Traffic Safety Board (ZTSB), the Ministry of Transport (MT), and the Harare
and Bulawayo City Councils. Public Transport measures would be undertaken
in Harare through the construction of a new central bus station, an ancil-
lary terminal, and road improvements.
Cost and Financing
46.       Total project cost, based on mid-1984 prices, including the
Bank's front-end fee, is estimated at US$112.6 million, of which US$30.0
million (27 percent) represents the foreign exchange cost. Government
taxes and duties are estimated at US$4.8 million. Physical contingencies
are estimated at 10 percent for civil works and construction and, 15 per-
cert io r civil works of the transport component.  Price contingencies on
imported goods and services are estimated at 3.5 percent in 1984, 8 percent
in 1985 and 9 percent in 1986-88. For civil works, local price contingen-
cies of 15 percent in 1984, 14 percent in 1985 and 13 percent per year
thereafter have been used. For all other lccal costs, price contingencies
have been estimated at 13 percent in 1984/85 and 12 percent per year there-
after. The proposed loan would allow fEor up to US$1.3 million of retro-
active financing for expenditures incurred after October 1, 1983, for
urgently needed project preparation work. The proposed project would pro-
vide for about 60 staff-years of techn:Lcal assistance.



- 13 -
47.       The proposed loan of US$43.0 million would finance 38 percent of
total project cost and would cover 53 percent of estimated foreign exchange
cost and about 33 percent of local cost. CDC's cofinancing would provide
US$9.6 million or 9 percent of total project cost. Thus, together with the
proposed Bank loan of US$43.0 million, external financing w'-uld cover 47
percent of total project cost. Government would provide US$22.4 million or
20 percent of project cost and building societies US$37.6 million (33 per-
cent).
Financial Arrangements
48.       On-Lending Arrangements.  The Government of Zimbabwe will make
the proceeds of the IBRD loan and its own contribution available to the
National Housing Fund (MCNH), General Development Fund (MLGTP), MT, ZTSB,
and ZAAT as follows: (i) funds for general infrastructure would be onlent
to the local authorities through the National Housing Fund; (ii) funds for
community facilities, technical assistance, transportation improvements,
and ZAAT's establishment costs, would be onlent to the local authorities
and ZAAT through the General Development Fund (MLGTP); and (iii) funds for
technical assistance, equipment and vehicles, and training would be passed
on to the respective implementing agencies as budgetary allocations. A
special condition of effectiveness would be that subsidiary loan agreements
between Government and each of the four local authorities and the
Government and ZAAT are signed (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
49.       During the project period, loan proceeds from the Bank and Gov-
ernment would be made available to each of the four cities to finance their
respective project costs. The cities would bear the debt burden over a
period of 30 years for housing infrastructure loans (National Housing Fund)
and 20 years (General Development Fund) for community facilities and techn-
ical assistance loans. Foreign exchange risk will be borne by the project
cities. By the end of the project implementation period the cities would
have recovered about one-third of housing infrastructure investments
through plot sales. This short-term recovery in combination with longer-
term loan repayment obligations would enable each project city to establish
a revolving fund from the proceeds of the plot sales with a view to finan-
cing additional housing infrastructure during the life of the subsidiary
loan. During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government would
cause each of the project cities to establish revolving funds under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.09 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
50.       The terms and conditions of funds to be onlent to the local
authorities and ZAAT would be according to prevailing, variable lending
terms for the General Development Fund, currently 9.75 percent per annum,
and periodically revised by the Treasury based on an average cost of
government borrowings. Assurances were obtained at negotiation that the
project-related lending rate of the National Housing Fund would not be less
than its total cost of borrowings (Section 3.01 (b) (i) and Schedule 5 of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
51.       Housing loans to project beneficiaries would be extended by the
private building societies on terms based on current market rates (pres-
ently 12.5 percent per annum), with a grace period of 6-9 months and a
maturity of 25 years.  This variable rate would be adjusted periodically in
line with the prevailing financial and economic conditions in the country
in accordance with a long-established practice in Zimbabwe.  The current
average cost of borrowing to the building societies is 9.5 percent which
compares favorably with the onlending rate of 12.5 percent for low-income
families. For housing loans over $12,000, the building societies' current
rate is 13.5 percent and they charge 14.75 percent for commercial proper-
ties. The average spread of more than three percent is sufficient to cover
administrative cost, risk and allows a net profit in real terms. Over the
past few years longer-term deposit rates have been increased from 6.25 per-
cent per annum to 10 percent and lending rates from 7.25 percent to the
current range from 12.5 percent to 14.75 percent. This variable rate
structure for long-term mortgage finanicing with regular adjustments by pr-'-
vate building societies based oni market developments seems compatible with
average inflation rates of about 13 percent over the last few years. The
market mortgage rate for low income beneficiaries of 12.5 percent under the
proposed project represents an increase of 3 percentage points over the
current lending rate of 9.5 percent under existing public sector housing
programs. The privately-owned and managed building societies have been in
operation for over 20 years with a proven long-term record of sound finan-
cial management and profitability. They manage some 700,000 individual
savings accounts -- or nearly one account for every ten residents -- which
indicates the widespread financial awareness of the population and the suc-
cessful business penetration of the building societies.
52.       Cost Recovery.  Local authorities already have well established
and effective cost recovery mechanisms in place. Under current practices,
the costs for urban services are fully recovered through tariffs and rates
while other developmental costs are recovered through plot sales. Plot
prices are based on actual development costs or on market valuation.
Approximately one-third of plot development costs are currently being re-
covered through plot sales and the remaining two-thirds through regular
charges and tariffs. This system has provern to be a very effective mechan-
ism for full cost recovery. About 82 percent of total project costs would
be recovered under the project. Of thes recoverable costs, approximately
two-thirds would be recovered directly from the beneficiaries through mort-
gage repayments and the remainder through supplementary charges and ta-
riffs. These costs include housing loans, as well as onsite and offsite
infrastructure. Costs for community facilities and technical assistance to
the municipalities, amounting to 10 percent of total project costs, would
be recovered indirectly through general] municipal revenues. The remaining
eight pecent of total project costs for technical assistance would be
charged to the government budget.
Project Execution and Management
53.       The proposed first urban development project would make maximum
use of existing agencies and procedures with modifications, as appropriate,



- 15 -
to improve efficiency.  The local authorities will assume the primary role
in project execution and will have responsibility for planning, design and
construction of all civil works and community facilities.   Local authori-
ties will no longer offer financing for plot purchases and house construc-
tion which will be provided by the building societies. Management and co-
ordination of the local authority training program and the transportation
component will be the responsibility of MLGTP.
54.         Each executing agency will monitor operations and prepare quar-
terly progress reports. Overall project monitoring will be assured by the
the PCMU, assisted by MCNH on the housing component, and supported by a
steering committee with representatives from all implementing agencies
(para. 58).
55.        Local Authorities.  The four local authorities participating in
the project all have municipal status. The Central Government through the
MLGTP exercises some financial control including approval of municipal bud-
gets. All borrowings by local authorities must be approved by the Govern-
ment through the MFEPD.   Financial assistance to cities in the form of
loans for general infrastructure and for low-cost housing is controlled by
MLGTP and MCNH, respectively.
56.        The cities have well-developed public services and are in sound
overall financial condition.   During the past few years, the cities' con-
solidated accounts showed a net financial surplus although some individual
accounts had deficits on an annual basis.   These deficits, however, have
been mostly offset by increases in rates and supplementary charges ranging
from 10-25 percent per year since 1981.  In the past, government grants for
social services of municipalities were small and accounted for less than 3
percent of annual revenues of Harare and Bulawayo, and less than 5 percent
for Mutare and Masvingo.   Government is phasing out such grant financing
but the impact on the cities' future overall financial status should be
minimal in view of the improved cost recovery and revised financing schemes
introduced under the project. Projections suggest that the financial posi-
tion of the project cities will remain sound and that they will continue to
generate a net financial surplus in their consolidated accounts.   Annual
revenues of each project town increased on average by about 20 percent per
year during 1979-83 and are projected to rise by about 20 percent in 1985
and 15 percent on average thereafter.
57.          Preparation and execution capacities of the project towns are
considered fully adequate.  Each local authority will establish a Working
Committee with representatives from all key departments and will designate
a project coordinator, acceptable to the Bank, to ensure efficient coordin-
ation and monitoring (Section 3.08 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).   The Community Services Departments of the project towns will be
responsible for project implementation, after the completion of civil
works, including selection of beneficiaries and plot allocation (in collab-
oration with the building societies), assistance to the beneficiaries in
housing construction, and control of agreed standards.  They are preparing



-- 16 -
staffing proposals for managing the self-build process scaled according to
the size of the program in each project town.  Assurances were obtained
that these staffing proposals will be completed and approved by the City
Councils before December 31, 1984 and submitted to the Bank for approval.
During negotiations, the policy of self-managed progressive house
construction, with minimum initial standards was confirmed (Sections 3.08
(d), 3.09 (a), and Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement). Under this
policy house construction, managed by the beneficiaries, will be phased
acording to ability to pay with the beneficiary required to complete one
room and ablution facility in order to occupy the plot. This initial phase
would be followed by further extensions in accordance with agreed
affordability criteria.
58.       Central Government.  At the central government level, MLGTP and
MCNH will have primary project responsibiLity.  MLGTP is responsible for
all major development programs, and will coordinate and monitor implementa-
tion of the local authority training component. It will be strengthened by
a PCMU which will be headed by the program coordinator assisted by a finan-
Cial analyst and locally-recruited staff qualified in data management,
economics, and accounting.  To supervise the work of PCMU and provide an
oversight on project implementation, a Steering Committee will be estab-
lished. These arrangements, including staffing appointments to be made
before December 31, 1984, were confirmed at negotiations (Section 3.02 (a)
and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The PCMU primarily will (i) improve
management information systems to help strengthen urban development pro-
grams of local authorities; (ii) monitor progress and ensure appropriate
reporting as agreed; and (iii) prepare Bark withdrawal applications. The
urban transport unit within the Department of Physical Planning would co-
ordinate implementation of all aspects of the transport component, monitor
progress including reporting and provide technical assistance as needed.
59,       MCNH was recently established fcllowing the merger of two form-
erly separate ministries -- the Ministry cf National Housing and the Minis-
try of Construction. MCNH's principal functions include formulation and
implementation of urban housing policies and selective development and exe-
cution of low-cost housing projects on behalf of local authorities. MCNH,
in collaboration with MLGTP, reviewed and approved all housing layout and
'nousetype designs for the project as prepared by the local authorities.
MCNH will monitor the implementation of the housing component and will pro-
vide technical assistance as needed.
60.       Building Societies.  Buildiing societies, which already have well-
established procedures for long-term housing finance, will provide mortgage
loans to project beneficiaries (para. 51). Interest rates for deposits and
-ending are fixed by the Treasury in consultation with the building socie-
ties with a view to maintaining the competitiveness of the building socie-
ties in financial markets. The loans would cover the price of the plot
plus the cost of constructing the house.  Allocation procedures, in
accordance with current practice by the project towns, will be based on
local authority waiting lists, There will be an upper monthly income limit
of US$385 equivalent per household and allocations will follow the
prevailing income profile of waiting lists as revised from time to time in
line with changes



- 17 -
in incomes and prices, and subject to Bank review and confirmation. De-
tails of allocation procedures and the responsibility of the building soci-
eties in project implementation are being finalized by the Government, the
building societies and CDC. Some 70 percent of allocations will be for
beneficiaries with current incomes below US$190 per month. No minimum in-
come limit would be set, but affordability in each case would be evaluated
in terms of income, amount of personal savings accumulated, and cost of the
unit as determined by size and mode of construction. Applicants satisfying
the above criteria will receive allocations subject to approval by the
building society. Loan amounts will be determined assuming that no more
than 25 percent of income will be spent on housing related expenditures.
The terms of the loan would be 25 years with a variable interest rate set
at the prevailing lower tier rate (currently 12.5 percent) of the building
societies.
Procurement
61.       Infrastructure works totaling about US$28.0 million or 25 percent
of project cost will be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for construction of
community facilities totaling US$10.8 million will be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures because of the small size, scat-
tered location, and staging of contracts. These procedures were reviewed
and are satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign bidders may participate.
Materials, equipment and labor for house construction totaling US$47.2 mil-
lion or 42 percent of project cost will be procured directly by individual
households from local suppliers. Construction of certain infrastructure
works by force account in the project towns will total about US$17.7 mil-
lion or 16 percent of project costs. This is considered preferable to com-
petitive bidding because of the efficiency of the cities in executing this
type of work. Civil works contracts, equipment and vehicles would be
grouped wherever possible and procured through ICB. Services for technical
assistance and training (US$7.2 million or 6 percent of project cost) will
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for works
exceeding US$250,000 and for goods exceeding US$150,000 will require prior
Bank review of bidding documentation and contract awards. For all other
contracts, documentation will be submitted to the Bank for post award
review. Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:



- 18 -
Procurement Arrangements a
(US$ Million)
Not     Total
Project Element                       IC]3    LCB    Other b Applicable   Cost
Civil Works                         28.0   10.8    17.7                   5605
(16.9)  (6.6)  (10.7)                (34,2)
Technical Assistance                                  6.9                  6.9
(6.9)                (6.9)
Equipment & Vehicles                         1.6                            1.6
(1.6)                         (1.6)
ZAAT Establishment Costs b                            0.2                  0.2
(0.2)                (0,2)
House Construction Loans                             47.2                 47,2
Front End Fee                                                     0.1      0.1
(0.1)    (0,1)
Total Cost               28.0   12.,4    72.0         0.1    112.5
(16.9)  (8.2)  (17.8)        (0.1)   (43.0)
E  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
Force account, direct purchase, and hiring of consultants.
Disbursements
62.       The loan proceeds would be disbursed within five years to cover
the following expenditures: (i) 60 percent of expenditures for civil
works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures for
technical assistance; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditure or 80 per-
cent of local costs for equipment and vehicles; and (iv) 80 percent of ZAAT
establishment costs. The supporting documents for statement of expendi-
tures will be fully maintained by the executing agencies and made available
for review by the Bank's supervision mission. The disbursement profile is
based on projected expenditures lagged by 12 months to allow for lead time
for processing of withdrawal applications. 'The principal reason for depar--
ture from the standard profile is that the proposed Bank loan would not be
providing sub-loans for housing construction which has been a major deter-
minant extending the average historical disbursement pattern.
Reports and Auditing
63.       Separate project accounts will be maintained by all four local
authorities and audited by competent, independent, private auditing firms,
acceptable to the Bank. Audited accounts will be submitted to the Bank



- 19 -
within nine months of the close of their fiscal year. Separate accounts
for project-related expenditures would also be maintained by MLGTP, MT,
ZTSB, MCNH, and ZAAT. A consolidated project account would be maintained
by PCMU within MLGTP. The audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank
within nine months of the close of MLGTP's fiscal year (Section 4.02 (d) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
64.       Economic rates of return based on quantifiable direct benefits
i           have been calculated for all shelter components comprising 82 percent of
total project cost. These benefits were estimated as a stream of imputed
rental values, based on observations of rents for similar housing in each
project town.  All shelter components would yield an average economic rate
of return of 15.3 percent. Sensitivity tests show that the overall rate of
return would not be less than 13 percent under any circumstances which may
reasonably occur. Non-quantifiable benefits are expected from improvements
of urban transport and traffic safety. Other non-quantifiable benefizs
include improvements in institutions through human resouce development and
increased private sector initiatives and activities.
65.       Poverty Impact and Affordability.  Affordability computations
assume that beneficiaries -- both owner occupiers and tenants -- can afford
to pay about 25 percent of their household incomes for housing. On this
basis, all shelter arrangements, i.e., rental rooms, which would comprise
75 percent of the housing units to be financed under the project, and owner
occupancy would be affordable to households well below the urban poverty
threshold (at the 13th percentile of urban household incomes). Realisti-
cally, a slightly higher income, or pre-existing savings, would be required
to own a plot than would be required to rent a room. Nevertheless, house-
holds at or just below the poverty threshold of approximately US$120 per
month per household can afford the debt and service support of plot owner-
ship and development. The project would provide housing for altogether
some 45,000 families (or about 40 percent of the projected increase in
demand in the project towns) during the project period and would serve the
lower income urban population segments. It is expected that additional
programs will be started following the innovative features introduced under
the proposed project.
Risks
66.       Main project risks relate to continuity of the urban development
program and loss of qualified staff.  Continued efforts over a longer
period of time will be necessary to ensure that policy changes will become
effective and other expected benefits will be fully realized. To mitigate
the risks, provision for the preparation of future investments has been
made and, assuming continued receptivity to Bank advice, further support is
foreseen. To ensure against potential loss of qualified staff, technical
assistance will be provided to help maintain efficiency of all four project
towns.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67s       The draft Loan Agreement between Zimbabwe and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of effectiveness would be that
(i) subsidiary loan agreements are signed between the Government and each
of the four local authorities and. between the Government and ZAAT (para
48); and (ii) an agreement between the Government and CDC is signed and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness are fulfilled (excluding the
effectiveness of the Bank loan agreement) (para 41).
68&       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70s       I recommend that the Executiv,e Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C
May 29, 1984



ANNEX I
-21 -                                                   Page 1 of S
T A B L E 3A
ZIMBABWE                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SFEET
ZflBABWE                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
4MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       197U    ESTIMATEb         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (THOSAND SQ. EM)
TOTAL                                 390.6        390.6        390.6
AGRICULTURAL                           68.5         72.1         74.0
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     270.0        410.0        870.0             1147.9                      1340.0
ENERGY CONSUHPT ION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ..       1152.0        778.0              724.2                       810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    3605.0         5040.0       7190.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)          12.6         16.9         23.6               28.5                       47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 16.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   71.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Koi.                          9.2         12.9         17.7               56.5                       36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               52.6         69.9        93.2               13t.8                      449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                            45.4         46.5        47.4                45.9                       43.9
15-64 YRS                            51.8         50.8        50.0                51.2                       52.8
65 AND ABOVE                          2.7          2.7         2.6                 2.8                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 4.0          3.4          3.2                2.8                         2.9
URBAN                                 5.7          6.3          6.3                5.3                        4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           55.4         55.3         54.4               47.6                        42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           16.5         14.0         12.7               15.2                       12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.9          3.9          3.9                3.2                         3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..         18.6/c      507.0/d
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..        14.0..
FOOD AND NUrRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          76.0         93.0       109.0                95.7                        97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIRE4ENTS)        111.0        101.0        86.0                97.1                      102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             78.0         72.0        53.0                56.0                       72.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           21.0         22.0        22.0/e              17.2                       17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            23.4         17.2        11.4                23.6                       15.2
HIEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          49.2         53.2         55.0               51.9                        57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         117.5         94.6        72.4               117.6                      104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..               25.4                        59.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..          ..                70.5                       84.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..               12.3                        37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             4790.0       6050.0      6580.0             12181.6                     3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              1000.0/f    1040.0       1190.0              2292.0                     1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               250.0        280.0       350.0/g            1075.4                       643.3
UR;BAN                                 ..         70.0          ..               402.3                      545.0
RURAL                                  .         970.0           . '            3926.7                     2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         30.5         24.5/g               ''                       26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                 0.8          O.7.
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..                 ..                        46.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                 ..                       77.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                 ..                        16.1
____________________----_ --______________ __________________ --_--__________________ _______________----_____________________



ANNEX I
_22 -                                                    Page 2 of 5
T 8         F A
IMBABWSE                  -     SOClALINDICATORS DATA SRFEET
2TM8ABWE                                  REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MO';T                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
bRCENT8   b          MlDDLF INCOME            MIDDLE INCMtt
t96/         I _ 70  I.1'TYA T R-/     APRICA S. OF RAPARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
mIUCATTON
ADJVSTEO ENROLL,MENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      96.0          74.0        LI5.0                97,2                         89.6
MALE                     107.0          81.0        118.0               103.1                        104.8
FEMA'LE                   86,h          68.0        113.0                AS.5                         72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       6.0           7.0         13.0                17.2                         41.7
MALE                       7.0           9.0         16.0                23.5                         52.8
FEMALE                     4.0           6.0         11.0                14.2                         31.2
VOCATIONAL (9 OV SECONDARY)              17.0          L.5          0.4                 52                          'L0.3
P11PIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               38.0            .          47.0                42,9                         31.9
SECONDARY                             21.0          22.0         24.0                23.7                         23.3
ADILT LITERACY RA.T (5)                  39.4/f                    668.                37.1                         43.3
CONSSUPT 1ON
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              22.2         24.8         29.8/h              18.8                         18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               .          28.8         45.7                97.8                        118.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 1.7          9.9         11.0                18.6                         45.6
NEWSPAPER ('DATLY GENERAL
lNTZRES.T") CIRCGtLATION
PER THOUSANO POPULATION                 24.7         16.5         16.6                18.2                         31.0
IINXM'A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           .             ..                0.6                          1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORE (THOtS)             1364.0        1775.0       2352.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      30.4          30.1         29.2                36.1                         10.7
AORICULTURE (PERCENT)                 69.0          64.0         b0.0                56.8                         42.5
TNOULSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0          13.0         1 5.0               17.5                         27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 37.8          35.2         :12.7               37.0                         25.6
MALE                                  53.3          49.7         46.3                47.1                         45.4
FgMALE                                22.7         21,0          19.1                27.0                          5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3          1.4          1.5                 1.3                          1.8
INCOQtE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
1IGHEST 5E OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
R1GHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..           ..                  .
LOWEST' 208 OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 408 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..
POVERTY TAROGT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCM0E1
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    . .          . .           . .             534.2                        276.1
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..               255.9                        177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UJS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..           ..               491.5                        400.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..               188.1                        283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (8)
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                  ..                         22.0
RUlRAL                                   ..           ..           ..                  ..                         30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT E S
/a  The group averages for eacr  indicator are population-weighted akrithmetic: means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1912; /d 1978; /e 1977; If 1962; ]j 1976; /h 1974.
May 1983



ANNEX !
-23-                                                                             Page 3 of 5
DlFptttl'00 OF SOCIAL INDICATORS.
Notes:  Aurloagi ito da-  are tetn  frn so-ce  ge-t-ily I,'" ftl she .5 ... sohoeictto  cod tooe,It should also be sated shot shop tar Ott he tttsrosttooi.ly
coopuoslato   octoto  t0 co  lad   of 0 ta dol-td d.lati.-a   n  cocet  ue  by ditfteetteoosfa   i  o.1ttcto ' tNtII  data..  The dot. tea. o-otf1t..s. .sdc  to.  I
describe ardors at nugn:aoda, Indica~~~~te tredo,ao  -tttsso    nttlo oaJ- diff.s.o.e. hob-totooris
Pta tofotet-   grupt ar  C) trt tot  I-toty getup of sth.              j stot t...otte  tad (11  tcootp  grasp sith s-..sshid teel aIala, Itotaw   olao. she  -o o   gEoup of  th.
ocaatoao(oubep   far "Hi1gh locate' 0i1 Rop-estra" grop obo   'Stiddit  hincoa    oeltin Afric  aod MIddle East' in oto-  b-ttoo  of st -o4t...oc.sa
ofitto.I   he rfaeee  rop data eta so-ogo  at.r..              oaooighsad arb tt  eaa-  far  -ach  odita-o aodton  ooiy s~ho  tajoety of Itt r....sIIta  in, a
froar tan data fa   rc c-          aot    ta  tici,    I cI rgea    -ot it  attn  oth  lodi-asor  deptods 00 tic a-ilObtIIityetf data uod to ocs lifte, t-tto- sas it
AREA (thoo....  o q.6o.l                                                                                  Poc-tuti-o cosPqltt-PpltoIdtddh ubto   rcIco
-TottI   Total  -oico   rt  oupt Itg            d uta and to l-d outs r; 1960,                              piUlaunqattofatasdcdsia  a   otrrttl
.dl  td    dl dto.                                                                                    FP.pattico car N-esoa hg        a      opuP.tatto   dieLdad  by c-bto   t  protticlog
harlcxacai" Ostonno   t agicultral aea tad  topotoette to peoc.aoacl                       tal     d f-sle geudutaarn,soiio  cuss    etsc                         aassod
fo  .ray.. ....rt.  narlcc  ad circic- g-td-  o- Ic lie fallaa; 1960,                                  cooa    oclsta
1010 acd 19680 d,at                                                                                   Puoututocpe  d...lte      oal   ra. IAd eaa-I                     ooato   ttl
-thoo, sd raral  dfa'1dad by the itto etol-  -ube  of bospisa  beds
COP PotCAPITA 1125$  - bar par -apita  astote          -t uret              Fltn  pice,                      aoalblat   it  puttia utd plicat  goesiad spetili-to  hospita1l ad
190, idOl, a.d  198dl lts,b s  os I                                                                                     oe pysIclao.     Iottlstnos   crt-sdig eciotipoly, aantdW
cat  eeoa  lttdod    toa  tanpitato, hbaso-, toolade hsist sod
ENEteY ClaTJtt'n9"f bI  P`N    Ela   "an"a  spjnro  cossop Io f c-neclndotatte    a                                                    tstotto    ft.st  by a pbpstcao  bu  by a aedstai
pelooryaoargyucool  ad ligite, prtotto .tnosoa1 goo aed hydra-, oclo                            sltt,oc5,rint,ot.) :Zictoffto   I Oo stnaeooastsd
otd goatitroal el-ctrtI`tol)6   kiaooaa  cou  eqoivotot pe-  tapftu1                                      P-uside   lItiot,I  age of .ndicot f-tdlttl-   Foe stot.otta   poepo
Idol,  MO1, oct 1391 tata.                                                                                ortao Itdystal   toIIdt 510  pr"iotiulRo-l t'csists * sod eIta
h-soitaiu.  otal or rural  uopittlouo  oodit aoIl aat Ielyo ta.
rPiOPLATION ANl VITAL. STATSI'CNSl                                                                           Spcacodhstsl   r   ocoe    oy uteeeo-                     t
aTal Potulfti-t  cdheait,           oaaa       At ot July 1; 1960, 1970. sod 1981                       Aiootpe   a ttidd-Ttsal naho  of adesitosb.  to~ atAcsta
d.it,                                                                                                   tro  laupitals dtilod.  byInhti   useof boA..
a      Iocucrt; 1960, 1971. aed 1981 dto-                                                      hnod    teu   outadfasa                       .ar ..ooho1dl - tod.tato. sodso
ruyuloiioa Pooloctitot                                                         - A~~~~1 huoatl  caate   oP a trop at tolltidotit st atot  ltnlog gaa-t-s
Ptua iaii   Ito  awt  - f--ac   popotati-tpe         eeos  r      -i d ta"199                    ad   tir sltstts    A tbard-t or  odg-st  atP tap one .tob isiuded it
cas  IAolto   ta .d and so  ad thoft  otoif  asd               I t itslt                        thisoodtctutottpryet
race.  yula lIo   ouatoactfat  ctil iy rtes  oeptetaf  iotedoaagocustar  f rroas pe I Is -tdtt. oIay ah.coal sseId                                                    oste
osyta  ices  It c.,otdfocle  IfetapeaytIate  oI-pi- tIf uth 11.                                       b-alist  roPtt....                                  --Iisota  ad    ctp-ntotnrueen    a
os-onta    dolit   I    ti-it    hccito bito  nt I        ntel. aol  our flitc                       ,ttu         P    --i iitiiatp Iyrca  odatIodo       to-ol.  no.sd Iu
pltlgpodrnte.  Ouhcutyi  rheoaoliad  aa  ot-tos-ooe                                          ioreaitoal   oit.           clot edeltefc -lttdi   --siag oarte   asttesde
Th.faiaso   cecoya   Portlsytsrd    o  pejcit-upes.a    att   rat   o   urld ligratrtoy
Ifln  o   A  e-yAce,o  loat  of unt IIt-neI~ r Paadoctn tac,  otpt-o                          teloate slac.-soat  sub  aol fae-lesoro                         sltsoy(ea
each    h  btriltte  t- I qtse    ce lcs  ittot   eutctly,.. The stsioay                                trIbsa Ooluo   tth    eor   no   apectse    fe                                 to
d-plualaaIoMIsc Iot -ott  at1 ctf -ais -tteroetdcaaca-ytsyshot -p--opaIllst-st~ ao   to                                                               cl-yOcae c-lde..t -to  h-il
`Isrc    of nit      -ouoooi   o    te  ol   a   t   soa  doatoo o                                      yeas to  adjotadfor  iffneot    ooe o -              Pn-sr-oocla- e  tar
torll ip  at  iteapaata-  d  .col.                                                                ao-iorieaofoooioJ-aad  odtattat-te.i..tt..ayeacId- Oldpote
lea  ttt:aar   Pooltia-O  eet' td,'.  20 ma    l your t -r toafor'                                  tic-so  pplsco   eotaatotetofiia   tta  Aa
y-00tba-     oo  all: hatascied                                                                      Noo-ar  srtoa -j.I ta-l  oalfaaod  faoahe -f Copotdi           ouhot-ec
1cr   r.   960, 1910, t-l 1911 dct-                                                              pupilo aoaalt of II to 11 e-Aa  Ifg;oeeiadoncutse
lPe- ;  la. Eaorlcclurol lotd - Cciyc-d at obc-  tar  gdlcu-ett-a  laoA                                   go-otlytoor.
1960,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hi              -4y.                          1-A 191$ ord  980 Attu  'loaslna  narho-let (tertec    of nttdatl ", ~         II incttc   t isiiadnao
cl4ocl  oa   tted  A  ptr-            al ol h     as- yaoaaa        f  -i-sr                             nl tY  as.  deparbtoti  of tcod             - l ituttot-
yPololt;   Ot), 1970, and-:981 Iota                                                                  PapOt!I-taco  antic    pecay, d ..... d-ay - fatal a sd-cts o.                  dI
Porloiac CoI  Onc  PIrerncl           tatal - hnAl-    orut    I.t. of stat1 eNd-                       Prtseat   acoey tI.-I. dicldad by  -obt-  at teatitt  ic itt   or
loot pIplAitric  Iat 1950-ho, 1960-70, a-A  1910-81.                                                                 1-eadadlota
OueaioIroat  RIlat  Ie,c--) - otbao - MIno1 costh ratto of aIslo                                Adolt litterA- rato  C-cet) -  ltt--i  atubso  IAottoea I                 datrla
p     IIstta   a  1990-N0. 1960-70, anIONd.acreid    f Stotl adult ppapulaotc  afd ZS y-nrs  do once.
frut  arngat (ottiosaOd     ttoo    nobirtit ear tia-aod of aid"
tta-  lopsltaI       16,  dl,ud 19811 alar.                                                        CdNSlbht0tll
Crude butt Oust (roe cla--d) - egonal deatis per ti-ud cIF old-pout                                     P .o..e  Cats(, t te  h-oadnoueiel-Patgrcrstaoa   tt
.....a.ac   1960 , 1970   aolId-l Auto... rsasaitg  loon  h-o  nlhto  P-eoa;  -ootdes aao -auts -tatAod
Gross cayrabocttao nuto - Aoeeacoaac'ora  ol Aaoi~~d..RttnosssAao.   0011 hear it            oitoot      tiln
Aero.,   a r.Acrbuiepealed it rAt aaprritses   rett  6-eetltclsOcdaele'oftoot -od P.uoit       I   pa  a   aenr   a    as
ialtiillyaa;uoly .2            tatf-y-a   --eage  ondig is 1'96g. 1910, asd                             broad,cats-ot     eee    psibic  po thib--d of-pplol               oIod-aon
1981,                                                                         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lnte    oiiasSo lbtauele   ad ia yeo-  sioroi- stu   ofrai
fosaily yiaaetng- Oocpos c calhIit-udol  -Acosua  o-ie  of  -coPt...at   atttra                                                  data toe eat         - tar  cay to  toce.ssiastt  s-t
af bftHI-ctrnI  A soc. udsroyice   of  -selta  fasily plsoo..                                           caatiejolalo   1i fce.alg.
prra.                                                                                                 TV lteriter   (tep   touadepos,o   - TVeetI-i-   nor btdca-  ta
Pasin  iotalar      nce  a   aoa   ae        tcost   Ooellgnrlpti  Pet shoooI                                                               ppoet-; nloo                .a.taco.  '  etT iaV
tueto Ia c,o-beurittoc       -1-44Y ...t.  olcue  ita-ota  d-alc-  so                               itrarcla          d in yeas  cc  reIora  o f TVl-ecsaa   ~It titi.
nIorort  no  In Arc OttOP.                                                                           Sc-uacc   Carcala nitoOe   -coollO                tr     h-lia   tie urerga
rotn  101.2Tl 15tit  ato   o   d l,gaotl ictoet-  n-opo,ta",A  tcolaa t1 peoca~llca
InArtut coA  prcoccin  per   atita1969-71 100 -)  aden uf per  ,pa,.                                         d-ollr   o   -ost  ceisoci-Itorcord lg   ecra  stn     t  ocnsc
oncual yrudorllot ut ull food canscoicito.  Pradoceianaot~l-ad-s ...O  atd              tO i  "daily' if it app-oca at         .us  fot.  et.I     ee
hoddonctloa a..I c- ga poodo-e  plircoelghts; 1961-6S, 1910, sod 19A1
energy eqointeo   of oat Ufedou .te   -atsLe  itoetype   tpt  pefocs  Maaa-oa  ttnoldiag has-int, s-ol,to , ott., aoo-tiag
lay.   Anaslatl  noyctats cooptit  danos in  od-toioa  topet I oo                           populoti-at   11oi  ages.tfitiao lo sari- to ottIes.  ors oa
toptet,ijcd ccto   in  ta6    bar supplies entodo tofoa  fatd, seeds.                                   capa    9le  l , 1910 and 1991 data.
-oef isoeA  ia food cr..a-occ, -td laa... it dfo.bhota.-eel(~o~t~eet   Peso   tatt faro  at peecet.tagoI o .t.ssa  lab- feat.
croretc   tart  o-is-tad ip PAO haoad It piyiongta  -aab  fco sims1                                          -~oQ1eo,  o1 -  ,iar- fteca  to f-rina, tare-ty. laatts   sad.
ocotnftr ald hoalebI cootlerit ot'tttonttot  ttpoo                  b,hlp tigtto,                         fiabiet o  pcrtg of total Itiar terrt   1980, tOll aal 19Sf data.
afe ud ratOtsioiatto   of ppoai-n. ao  aloo O            -- etsa  ftrat                          looeIpetal- Latof foeetoot-                  g   catattI Itlo,otfaueg
atlaatal   ta1   191la,idlsd  790 laad.l                                                                  ed-atoii   .otrsd fna  p                            Irttg f ctal.  ahb-  torca; 1960.
Par cuotta .o",In of 'ocEle          o   Pot dayl      rtloco i  of per tapta                                Idly a-A  t981di lair
oa   If l  o   oa   eedy.Sn  oyt   f  od  adcieIs.a,                                            fetaptaofin(eratl-toa,  at,ad  eai     Peicettoa
Reqotot..tots  -tnall -oneo  etiit by   DiA pe..aid. for nielta                             loioYtseaoanot    etutal                                          I, sae9o tsl   ao -feea
Atlos....o.t. IOs   atIictl   protean~,ul  par lay aad di gea-  af soi-a  s-d                           por-tossg    o                 -oa,  oe  e  f-olt  optaa  tt al  agc t`npotivolp;
Paltl-ctin,V cIall  10 gAe  00001  be ano l poat.i  'Tasht.  1960                                                 ff, aed 19811d lato    Tie.a see bated6 at 110'  pesiripatlarat
otaanrdaure  oserthantto   of 751 0 satttlP prtiRi Ifam                                           elt  o    g-stcototn   of ocr ptrnlatta-e. so  lag tiet tredt
',t soNcal ret               tol   saasoa    u    i  toeld, pnaponad 01 PAc so, the                     -tatiosta   ate  toesita ooce..
ThIrd to-td Inl.  o-ny; 1961-65, 19710 aol 19810 data.                                               Itasas  poenled ytsi   -                'aso Ifpoo -t o-  1$ sod 65 sad  ete  s
deeeoAtes siclo  ndpuino  t  ruo   pe lp;1961-6N, 191  acd 1N7T
Chitd laget 1-01~ hai  tote (pse hIaaod  - tnoa  d-att  Ie ttuanotd ie                                  PstnaIItP         Iot  lta   Itoot Ia ot.t aM601-cofndb  rcas
ago group 1-l pen -to rlitlot Ia sIlo  age group: foe tos  do-ttptog                                    PeeRoa,  R.RIci      lb pre,poet1Pato,sdPotesa. ao.                          ratt at
cutiadaro doriced fran Ilfe  ooblte; 1960, 1970 sod t901 dats.                                    b-aobads.
LiE -fpt -o,c  ot OmitItao -Acsg  oootbc of ysa-  of life  ositisg                                   The  -1 . talolg    otsot   p sy  tpottttsrs tf paoe-ap te-1b, a-
atbitt1; 1*0,lOl  aol lOft data.                                                                      shoaid tt fo"taertodst   otdotscoto
Ilatece tttrctl s  fast  (Pet tir--adl   A-enof Aestis nf ilftVtotanoeO                        t          isotead Abotoa   oeto  ocs ...          nt1l- 185 (U ar carnalt   - oeha. stb n-rs  -
perofst  e  thuudtn  bieth.; 1968, 1910 and 1901 da-a.                                             O atui pan-esy I-cs  teneI tothot I-c--e tenti hbo shial  a efoIna
dretaa   f Safa   ster Irrteta   f ....uttttal-- aal    to  sod Lrra  -                                   -ttted l  adoqate dIee  ptn   -steiisi Ico-fted tequrtot...    tano
tatoa   erelta..-   ora,  o  erllottooocilscesonf                                                    ofrIb
otter appy ip  claolt  -enedtotaestr  oratotd is                                                      cotleasod   Otstn       - oos  Ist-o   a-'1 105$ Pte raro.) - orb-t ob roos  -
oocattaaloa.o. eae. sd  as-I     stt  r   ptttilhsols  spfg . sd                                        Suot   bti-s p-eery too-  te-t  It, cee-ebdd of to-esgapo  ..Pitt
oaottacealtl as  trtoas~ooIftil   reptstppl.,ttits  ~It aopncal                                              c   at O    I--tep   tUtt  leni  ts de-i-td tro  tho  -aIa
-nhuaoaa  pblic fas.atoto   sopn  loat   o   aeso 00 ostte                                              le-n  oith sdja--eo  farhh   ..tr .cts of ItiogI toah.  areas.-
-eAu a id     ..Y cal to . aced-re  as holg aisthi  r-naogt   -tes   of stat                         Eletattd   Iouato   BaIcs AhsPtiaeOnat  Itot oalf                    -eetI) -rIte
i..a..  Torrl  ra    oonoi -ccesos,rL- -tpl  stht slat it affdo                                          o  ture  - Precet ofpyaata    oeo  and eaea) aba Are"tolo
aestar  of tOte buanthol  do oat toot ta .pa..  a daaptaperts-tf  poe  at
~~-oacafacorsItirtl Ipercet of papaiafto   -  oal   o7s.al
rural     Soota  of poplt (osaf,orhoa.aid ots1   netm thyaoaIfePtsu-                                                                     .y..dPpl..
dlispsl  ua eeceot,  ofI ti  ntopriepooaiss    seradsta



-24-                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZIMBABWE
0UNTRY DATA
GNE PER CAPITA IN 1982: US$850
GRDSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983 (Preliminary Estimate)        ANUAL AVERAGE RAE OF GROWH
(%, constant 1969 prices)
US$ Mln.   %                   1970-75     1975-79      1979-83
GNP at Market Prices            5376    100.0                    5.3        -0.3         5.5
Gross Domestic Investment       1242     23.1                   11.2       -15.4        17.3
Gross National Saving            724     13.5                    3.6       -13.5         5.6
Current Account Balance         -516     -9.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           1221     22.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           1387     25.8
OUrPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983
Value Added             Labor Force a              V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %            '000     %              US$    % of Average
Agriculture                      512.6      10.8         263.8   25.5           1943.1        42.3
Industry                        1521.8    32.1          289.7    28.0           5253.0       114.4
Services                        2706.2    57.1          479.1    46.4           5648.5       123.0
Unallocated                         .        .              .       .               .      _
Total/Average                4740.6    100.0        1032.6  100.0            4590.9       100.0
GOVERNMENr FINANCE
General Government b                  Central Governnent c
(Z$ Mln)           % of GDP           (Z$ Mln)           % of GDP
1982/83     1982/83  1980/81-82/83    1982/83     1982/83  1980/81-82/8
Current Receipts                                                        1756.0       30.9        27.C
Current Expenditures                                                    1821.0       32.1        29.3i
Current Surplus                                                          -65.0       -1.1        -2.3
Capital Expenditures                                                     190.0        3.4         2.5
External Assistance (net)                                                 50.0        0.9         2.
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate of Z$1 = US$1.58
a Formal sector ernployment only.
b Figures dD not differ significantly fran "Central Government".
t Fiscal year = July 1 to June 30. GDP data (in market prices) refer to calendar years.
not available
not applicable
May 1984



-25-
Pag e   of 5
KMEf, (71EDT ad PRICE               1978     1979     1980    1981    1982      1983
(-iKon ZS  ats               er)
Money ald Qisi Mmy                   892     993      1214    1399    1693      1663
Bark Credit to Public SectDX        212      199      371      333      594      524
Bean   redit to Private Sector      711      724      827     1188     1340     1543
(Percentage or Iex Nmbers)
Mo y ard  Qjasi M       ab  % co GfP  38       38       35      32       34       29
Geeral Price Lid  (1969-OO) e        176     200       211     238      264      325
Amnal percentage dwges in:
Ceaeral Price IrdiK                   8.2    12.6       7.3    13.9    14.6    19.6
Baw  Credit to Eiblic Sector         -3.3    -6.1      86.4   -10.2    78.4   -11.8
Bar Credit to Private Sector         -2.7       1.8    14.2    43.6    12.8    15.1
BMANC CF PAtSI (US$ Millions)            ?         E        A        )ISE EXOS (average 1980-82)
1981   1982   1983 a
(us$ Million)                                    1S$ KLn 
Exports of Gxds & NS            1594   1495   1221            Agriculture b            434          36
Inoxrts of Goods & NS            2)36  1891   1387             Mnirg c                  150          13
Resource Gap (deficit  -)       -442   -394  -166              Maracturirg              496          42
Otber                    112
Interest Payatents (net)         -42  -113  -148                     Total             1192         lOC
Workers' Renittances              -5    -3    -2
Other Factor Payments (net)      -90  -116   -90
Net Transfers                   -124  -140  -110                 ENL  Mr, CECMJER 31, 1983
Balance an Qurrant Accont       -703  -766  -516                                               US$ Mnn.
Direct Foreign Iwestnmt          -21      0     -2
Net M1L Borrwirg                                               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed      1225.8
Disbursements                   231   478    426             Nin-Oaranteed  Private Debt
AnDrtizatia                     113   102    132             Total Outstandirg & Disbursed
Subtotal                        118   376   294
Capital Grants                     88    77    35              EEBT SEmcE RATIO FOR 1983 d
Other Capital (net) f             228    146  -175                                                   X
Otber Items n.e.i.                134    67    178
Increase in Reserves (-)         156   100    186              Public tebt, incl. guaranteed       24.9
*N-rmranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)         278   272    168             Total Outstaodirg & Disbursed       24.9
Net Reserves (end year)            99   -10   -194
Fuel & Related Materials
iports                          306   311
of r.hich: Petrolen             250   248
Exports                          15    16
Of which: Petrolem                -      -      -
IBRD/Mk LEDING, De1ceiber 1983 (US$ Mln)
RAIE OF EiANz                                                                                i3RD    MA
1979   1980   1981    1982    1983
Outstandirg & Disbursed         96.3  18.2
US$1.00 - Z$   .6799  .6426  .6913  .7573  1.0106          Utdisbursed                       210.8  33.5
Z$1.00  - US$  1.4709  1.5561  1.4465  1.3205  .9895        Outstandirg incl. Undisbursed   307.1  51.7
a Provisional.
b Defined as edible food  nd. fats plus naredible agricultural xtput such as tobacoo, cotton, forestry.
products, etc.
C Definei as crxie mnterials anl minerals, gold ald processed ndnirg Tmterials-mainly tnfabricated
metals. Maxh of this might, by aother classification, be osxidered miifacturirig output.
d Ratio of debt servio  to exports of pods ad services.
e Average of Higher and lower iname group.
f Short-term cpital
..not available
not applicable
May 1984



-26-
ANNEX II
Page I of 2
ZIMBABWE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS ASD IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Credit
No.    No.       Year   Borrower           Purpose                   Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans and one credit fully disbursed                           137.70 15.00
1994             1981   Zimbabwe           Transport Re'ha-
bilitation Imports        42.00               25.17
2212             1983   Zimbabwe           Electricity Suppply
Power Commission          105.00              96.36
2239             1983   Zimbabwe           Manufacturing Export
Promotion                 70.60               41.65
2282             1983   Zimbabwe           Highway                   26.40                22.85
2335             1983   Zimbabwe           National Agricul-
tural Extension           13.10               13.06
2342             1983   Zimbabwe           Railway Development       40.00                40.00
1291     1982   Zimbabwe           AFC Small Farm                    30.40        23.72
1296     1982   Zimbabwe           Petroleum Fuels Supply
Technical Assistance               1.20        0.54
1368     1983   Zimbabwe           Rural Afforestation                7.30         7.24
Total                                               434.80 53.90        270.59
of which has been repaid                            84.63    -             -
350.17
Amounts sold                           41.99
of which has been repaid             40.99         1.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     349.00  53.90           -
TOTAL undisbursed                                239.09  31.50       270.59



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
ZIMBABWE
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Investment                                 Type of               US$ Million Equivalent
Number        Year                         Business              Loan             Equity
552-ZIM       1981   Wankie Colliery
Company Limited      Coal Mining             22.8               -
1984a/ UDC Limited          Finance                  2.0              0.3
(Hire/purchase)
Total gross commitments                      24.8              0.3
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                     _
Total now held by IFC                        24.8              0.3
Total now undisbursed                         2.0              0.3
a/ Not yet signed



-28-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.       Timetabe of Key Events
a)  Time from project identification to
appraisal                                 18 months
b)  Preparation by                            Government & Bank
c)  First Bank mission to consider the
project                                  January 1982
d) Appraisal mission. departure               October 1983
e)  Negotiations                          :   April 1984
f)  Planned date of effectiveness             September 1984
TI,      Special Bank Implementation. Action
None.
III.     Special Conditions
A.  The Government would:
(i) establish PCMU and a Steering Committee, before December
31, 1984, to assist with coordinating project implementa-
tion (para. 58);
(ii) implement a policy of self-managed progressive housing
construction with minimum initial standards (para. 57).
B.  The Local Authorities would:
(i) establish a Working Committee before December 31, 1984 to
ensure efficient coordination and monitoring (para. 57);
(ii) establish a revolving fund from the proceeds of the plot
sales, with conditions and procedures for the use of
these funds satisfactory to the Bank (para. 49).



-29-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
C. Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be that:
(i) subsidiary loan agreements between Government and each of
the four local authorities and the Government and ZAAT
are signed (para. 48); and
(ii) An agreement between the Government and CDC is signed and
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness are
fulfilled (excluding the effectiveness of the Bank loan
agreement) (para 41).






5 > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I B R D 18162
- _J S~~~MAI                                                                R 21.__Qe   Y
NAIIIc  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TIMTTARWFit  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      
Z A M B I A) bt o _4 X-<) vf ~~~~~~~16-
'SOUTH ~
AFRICA                                    /7
ZA l     I M    a A   B   W     E  '  ,=     \70vp
1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                       0                                                                   0'     _ 5 ;n  d ; D::.                                           
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Towns                                                                                                                                                               '
Proiect To..ns
2oo, StoltRad
____Secodary TItef Roods21
R.,roys
t     M-o  Aop.Is7
Provocoolsm R   2Joundaesot/t
0/7 sA j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-, d g ,/ 
PT~ ~   ~ Ironaoo   Rounoow\res                                                                                                                                                 .no            
T           S           1622        26 5  M  ryp
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 URBA  DEEOMN  RJC  )0S,   \   ,a                                                                                                                                                  , ,'  



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



