OFFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER 2445 ZIM
DOCU ME NTS
Loan Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2445 ZIM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  ), -,L          1- ?2      , 1984, between
ZIMBABWE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (hereinafter called CDC) a loan (herein-
after called the CDC Loan) in an amount equivalent to ten million
Zimbabwe Dollars to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the CDC Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and CDC; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions   Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Building Societies" means the Central African Building
Society, the Beverley Building Society and Founders Building


﻿- 2 -
Society collectively, all building societies registered under the
Borrower's Building Societies Act, 1965, [Ch. 189] as amended;
(b) "MLGTP"   means   the  Borrower's  Ministry   of  Local
Government and Town Planning;
(c) "MT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport;
(d) "MCNH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction
and National Housing;
(e) "ZTSB" means Zimbabwe Traffic Safety Board;
(f) "Local Authorities" means the Harare City Council, the
Bulawayo City Council, the Mutare City Council and the Masvingo
Town Council collectively, and "Local Authority" means any of
these councils; and
(g) "ZAAT" means the Zimbabwe Association of Accounting
Technicians established on June 28, 1983.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-three
million dollars ($43,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreemant, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the BQrrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred and seven thousand two hundred and
thirty-two dollars ($107,232).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period"  means  the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in      (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings" means:   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of


﻿-4-
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" mear.s the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the respective parts
of the Project (excluding Part B thereof) through MLGTP, MT,
MCNH, ZTSB, and the Local Authorities as indicated in the said
Schedule, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and urban
development principles and practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required. for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) relend part of the proceeds of the Loan to each
Local Authority and to ZAAT under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and such entities under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, including
those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(ii) exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan
Agreement  in  such   manner  as  to protect   the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower


﻿- 5 -
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive each
such Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provisions
thereof;
(iii) make appropriate allocations in the budgets of its
Ministries of Health and of Education for the
fiscal year within which the clinics and schools
to be constructed under Part A.2 of the Project
are expected to be completed to ensure that
adequate resources are made available for the
operation of such clinics and schools; and
(iv) take all necessary action within its power to
ensure   that  the   Building   Societies  utilize
criteria consistent with those set forth in Sched-
ule 7 to this Agreement in the selection of bor-
rowers who would construct houses on plots alloca-
ted under the Project.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall, by not later than December 31, 1984, establish and there-
after maintain:
(a) a Steering Committee to be composed of representatives
of each of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsi-
ble for carrying out the Project and the Program Coordinator
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. The Steering
Committee shall be responsible for the review and monitoring of
the execution of the Project;
(b) a Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit in MLGTP,
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist inter
alia in the overall coordination and monitoring and evaluation
of the Project. The Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit
6hall have qualified and experienced staff, including a Program
Coordinator and Financial Analyst and support staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1984, establish and thereafter maintain, an Urban Trans-
port Unit in MLGTP with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank to assist, inter alia, in the implementation of Part D
of the Project. The Unit shall be staffed with qualified and
exverienced professional personnel, including a transport planner
and a transport economist, and support staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ the con-
sultants referred to in Schedu1 6 to this Agreement whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall employ the technical staff referred
to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and such technical staff shall
have qualifications and experience and terms of reference which
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any      material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Notwithstanding the generality of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall cause each Local Authority to furnish
to the Bank for its approval prior to initiating bidding proce-
dures, the final designs for primary schools, clinics, community
centers and administration offices to be constructed under Part A
of the Project in each such Local Authority.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-7-
the Loan, -and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project, and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. Without any limitation or restriction on its
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each
Local Authority, by not later than December 31, 1984, to:
(a) establish and maintain a working committee to be com-
posed of representatives of the departments of Treasury, Commu-
nity Services, and Works or Engineers within its organization
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;


﻿-8-
(b) elect one such representative as its coordinator for
the purposes of the Project;
(c) appoint an engineering or other appropriate consultant
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement to act as advisor to the coordinator referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section; and
(d) prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its approval, its
staffing proposals for the administration of owner-managed house
construction under the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the policy of self-managed progressive housing construction and
to that end, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause each Local Authority to require the stan-
dards, to apply the eligibility iriteria and to establish proce-
dures set forth in Schedule 7 of this Agreement in the allocation
of plots to allottees under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each Local Authority to: (i)
establish and maintain a revolving fund on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and pay thereinto all the proceeds from
the sale of plots under the Project; (ii) use the proceeds of
such fund to finance additional housing infrastructure and to
meet its debt service obligations under its Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and (iii) make sales of plots on terms whereby each
Local Authority shall obtain, by written agreements or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and each such Local Authority, includ-
ing the right of representatives of the Bank to visit such sites
and the right of the Local Authority to suspend or terminate the
rights of the allottee to a plot upon failure by such allottee to
perform its obligations under its agreement with the Local
Authority.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal. circumstances, special security from the,member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of


﻿- 9 -
foreign exchange held under the c:oitrol or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined) as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that if, for
any constitutional or other legal reason, such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lieu created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and forej -n exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Proj-
ect, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each Local Authority to main-
tain records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently


﻿-10-
maintained appropriate accounting practices, the operations and
financial condition of each such Local Authority.
(c) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, and shall cause each Local
Authority to have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related state-
ments), for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, certified copies of such accounts and
financial statements and the reports of such audits by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (c) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
separate accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause each Local Authority:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and


﻿- 11 -
Icoal government practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
administrative practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) the- eof:
(a) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that each of the Local
Authorities will be able to perform its obligations under this
Agreement;
(b) the Law establishing each Local Authority shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of each such Local
Authority to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to, or
guaranteed by, the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan or guarantee shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(ii)   subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of


﻿- 12 -
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and each of the Local Authorities and
between the Borrower and ZAAT, have been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and the other parties thereto; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the CDC Loan Agreement
have been duly authorized and ratified by all necessary action,
and all other conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CDC Loan (except for conditions relating solely to the "B"
Project) pursuant to the terms of the CDC Loan Agreement (other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that each Subsidiary Loan Agree-


﻿- 13 -
ment referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and each of the
entities referred to in said Section, and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and each such entity in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date    1A-7,9iq, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance, Economic Planning and
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary
Ministry of Finance, Economic
Planning and Development
Private Bag 7705
Causeways, Harare
Zimbabwe
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                            MINFIN 2141 ZW
Harare                             Zimbabwe
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ZIMBABWE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth che Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works               26,000,000         60%
(2) Equipment and              1,500,000         100% of foreign
vehicles                                    expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'               7,500,000         80% of local
services and                                expenditures
technical                                   for services of
assistance                                  consultants
domiciled with-
in the territory
of the Borrower
and 100% of for-
eign expenditures
for services
of other con-
sultants
(4) Establishment                170,000         80%
costs of ZAAT
(5) Fee                          107,232        Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agree-
ment


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Unallocated                7,722,768
TOTAL               43,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the 'date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,300,000, may be made in
respect of Categories (1), (3) and (4) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the


﻿- 17 -
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) re-
allocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such re-
allocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower, inter
alia, in the promotion of the financial and institutional capa-
city for increasing the supply of affordable housing and related
services in Zimbabwe by restructuring housing delivery and mort-
gage financing procedures and assisting its local authorities in
the development and training of their staff. The Project consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:   Serviced Urban Residential Land and Related Community
Services (Local Authorities)
1.   Development of about 11,350 serviced residential plots
in selected areas in Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and
Masvingo, including serviced land for local commercial
and industrial requirements as necessary, and infra-
structure such as water, seweiage and electricity net-
works, public lighting, roads and drainage.
2.   Construction of community facilities, including primary
schools (including equipment therefor), clinics, market
areas, community centers, site administration offices
and bus terminals in the towns and cities referred to
in paragraph 1 above.
Part B:   Housing Finance (Building Societies)
Carrying out a program for the provision of loans to
selected beneficiaries by the Building Societies.
Part C:   Institutional Development (MLGTP and MCNH)
1.   Carrying out on-the-job-training programs for*profes-
sional, sub-professional, technicians and other skilled
workers in the Treasurers, Works/Engineers and Commu-
nity Services and Housing Departments of all urban
local authorities in Zimbabwe, including the acquisi-
tion of about 4 four-wheel drive vehicles and 2 mini-
buses.
2.   Support for start-up activities of ZAAT.


﻿- 19 -
3.   Strengthening of the institutional capacities for urban
management of all local authorities in Zimbabwe, in-
cluding the acquisition of about 4 vehicles.
4.   Strengthening of the Works or the Community Services
Departments of the Local Authorities in project imple-
mentation and coordination, including the acquisition
of about 4 vehicles.
Part D:   Urban Transport and Traffic Management (MT, MLGTP and
ZTSB)
1.   Development and implementation of appropriate urban
transport  policies   to   strengthen  the   Borrower's
capacity to prepare, appraise and execute sound urban
transport projects, promote and strengthen road safety
training and enforcement.
2.   Establishment of an urban transport unit within MLGTP,
including the acquisition of a vehicle.
3.   Acquisition of road safety equipment, about 2 large
pick-up vehicles and training of the staff of the
Zimbabwe Traffic Safety Board to expand its driver
training and road safety programs.
4.   Carrying out of feasibility studies to determine appro-
priate computing equipment to modernize and improve
MT's  driver  licensing, vehicle    registration,  road
accident recording and information handling systems and
thereafter,  acquisition   of  equipment  for  MT   and
assistance with programming and training of its staff.
5.   Acquisition of equipment for the Harare and Bulawayo
City Councils to assist in traffic data collection and
handling.
6.   Construction of a central bus station in Harare and
ancillary works to improve bus access to such station.
Part E:   Project Administration and Monitoring (MLGTP)
Establishment of a Program Coordination and Monitoring
Unit, and Working Committees in each of the Local


﻿- 20 -
Authorities to assist in the implementation of the
Project, including acquisition of computing equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1989
through   October 1, 2003                    1,435,000
On April 1, 2004                                  1,385,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
maturity


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A and D.6 of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   Goods and works shall be bulked together in bidding packages
to the maximum extent practicable.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,


﻿- 24 -
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Zimbabwe may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference, and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups: P
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods  manufactured  in
Zimbabwe if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Zimbabwe equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this compari-on, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 25 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Except as provided in Part F of this Schedule, con-
tracts for construction of community facilities, and (b) con-
tracts for goods which cannot be bulked in bidding packages
estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent, shall be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding locally advertised and in
accordance with local procurement procedures which are satis-
factory to the Bank.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review  of  prequalification. The Borrower    shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusions of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more and all contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:


﻿- 26 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions -f the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 27 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Infrastructure works described in the Annex to this Schedule
to be carried out under Part A of the Project shall be carried
out by force account.


﻿- 28 -
ANNEX
Infrastructure Works to be carried
out by Force Account
HARARE
Sunningdale (1,435 Plots)
Electrical Supply
Tower Lighting
Glen Norah (902 plots)
Electrical Supply
Tower Lighting
MPG Phase 1 (2,450 plots)
Bulk Supply Main
Supply and Lay
Electrical Supply
Tower Lighting
BULAWAYO
Nketa 3 Section 6 (1,089 plots)
Roads & S.W.D. On and offsite,
Not Including Bitumen Surface
Electricity Supply
Including Offsite
Tower Lighting
Nketa 3 Section 7 (1,905 plots)
Roads & S.W.D. On and Offsite,
Not Including Bitumen Surface
Electrical Supply
Tower Lighting


﻿- 29 -
Nketa 3 Section 8 (1,521 plots)
Roads & S.W.D. Onsite Only,
Not Including Bitumen Surface
Electrical Supply
Tower Lighting
Community Facilities
Market Surfacing
MUTARE
Devonshire Phase I (1,522 plots)
Electrical Supply
Tower Lighting
Community Facilities
1 Primary School
1 Clinic
Community Center &
Administrative Office
MASVINGO
Town Center South Phase I (525 plots)
Electricity Supply
Tower Lighting
Community Facilities
1 Clinic
Administrative Office
Community Center
I Primary School


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Section 3.01 (b) (i)
1.   The proceeds of the Loan allocated for infrastructure works
to each Local Authority and to be relent by the Borrower to each
such Local Authority shall be repaid in 30 years at the prevail-
ing interest rate established by the Borrower for loans made by
its National Housing Fund to Local Authorities, as such rate is
adjusted from time to time, provided, however, that such rate
shall not be less than the cost of borrowings of the National
Housing Fund.
2.   The proceeds of the Loan allocated for community facilities,
technical assistance, transportation improvements to each Local
Authority shall be relent for 20 years at the prevailing interest
rate established by the Borrower for loans made by NLGTP under
its General Development Loan Program to Local Authorities.
3.   The proceeds of the Loan allocated to ZAAT and to be relent
by the Borrower to ZAAT shall be repaid in 20 years at the pre-
vailing interest rate referred to in paragraph 2 of this Sched-
ule.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 6
Consultants' Services and Technical Assistance
Part A:   Consultants' Services
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ the following consultants and
specialists in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (a)
of the Loan Agreement:
1.   A Program Coordinator and a financial specialist to
assist the Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit in the co-
ordination and monitoring of the Project.
2.   Training consultants with expertise in building manage-
ment, accounting, maintenance and housing administration to carry
out on-the-job training under Part C.1 of the Project.
3.   Consultants, by not later than December 31, 1984, to
assist the Borrower in the formulation and monitoring of housing
programs.
4.   A transportation planning consultant to assist in the
carrying out of Part D of the Project.
5.   Consultants to carry out the studies referred to in
Parts D.1 and D.4 of the Project.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
The Borrower shall employ the following technical assistance
staff in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of
the Loan Agreement:
1.   An administrative secretary to operate ZAAT.
2.   Three  professional   staff  to   assist  the  Program
Coordination and Monitoring Unit,
3.   A transport economist and a technician/data analyst to
assist the Urban Transport Unit referred to in Section 3.03 of
the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 7
Standards, Eligibility Criteria and Allocation Procedures
for Allottees Under Part A.1 of the Project
Part A:   Standards
In accordance with the Borrower's commitment to the policy
of self-managed progressive housing development as stated in
Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement:
(a) each Allottee shall be permitted to occupy a plot on
the completion of a first phase of construction which shall com-
prise at least one room and ablution facility;
(b) construction of the said first phase shall be under-
taken with a view toward completion of a four-room core house in
18 months; and
(c) extensions to the time period may be granted wherever
appropriate taking into consideration the Allottee's ability to
service debt to be incurred for such construction.
Part B:   Eligibility Criteria
Criteria for determining eligibility for a plot under the
Project shall be those currently used by Local Authorities in
preparing waiting lists, which are acceptable to the Bank. The
waiting lists shall be updated annually to ensure that all appli-
cations are current. The criteria for this purpose shall be that
the Allottee:
(a) shall be a resident in the area of jurisdiction of the
Local Authority;
(b) shall be employed in the area of jurisdiction of the
Local Authority;
(c) does not own any residential property in the area of
jurisdiction of a local authority or, in the case of
renters, makes arrangements satisfactory to the Local
Authority for relinquishing any lease on allocation of
a plot;
(d) shall be a person with at least one dependent residing
with him or her;


﻿- 33 -
(e) shall not    earn more   than  four hundred and     fifty
Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$450) per month subject to the
provisions of Part C.3 of this Schedule; and
(f) shall be ranked sequentially on the waiting list with
priority being given to length of employment in the
area of jurisdiction of the Local Authority.
Any changes to the foregoing eligibility criteria shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part C:   Allocation Procedures
1.   Plots shall be allocated to Allottees as they become avail-
able in accordance with the ranked waiting list of eligible
applicants as determined in paragraph (f) of Part B of this
Schedule.
2.   No plot shall be allocated to an Allottee whose houLehold
income is more than four hundred Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$400) per
month. Each Local Authority shall establish such systems as are
necessary to ensure that about 70% of plot allocations shall
be made to Allottees whose household income are less than two
hundred Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$200) per month.
3.   The income requirements set forth in this Part C shall be
reviewed annually jointly by the Borrower, the Bank and CDC.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of      1 (98    .
FOR SECRETARY


