Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE  COPY
Report No. 242lb-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
JAMAICA
June 6, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                        =  Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1.00                              =  J$ 1.76
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31
System of Weight and Measures: British/US
1 foot (ft)                         =   0.305 meter (m)
-1 mile (mi)       2                 =   1.609 kilometers (km)        2
1 square mile (mi )                 =   2.589 square kilometers (km )
1 pound (lb)                        =   0.454 kilogram (kg)
1 imperial gallon                   =   4.54 liters
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAJ                Airport Authority of Jamaica
ADT                Average Daily Traffic
CIDA               Canadian International Development Agency
DC                 Directorate of Construction
DEMS               Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services
DM                 Directorate of Maintenance
DMP                Directorate of Major Projects
DTS                Directorate of Technical Services
EDC                Economic Development Council
HDM                Highway Design Model
1DB                Inter-American Development Bank
ITA                Island Traffic Authority
JMM                Jamaica Merchant Marine
JRC                Jamaica Railway Corporation
KSAC               Kingston and St. Andrews Corporation
MA                 Ministry of Agriculture
MLG                Ministry of Local Government
MOW                Ministry of Works
MPUT               Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
NAMUCAR            Naviera Multinacional del Caribe
NPA                National Planning Agency
PAJ                Port Authority of Jamaica
RMCS               Road Maintenance Works Costing System
ROMGRAM            Road Maintenance Programing System
TJA                Trans-Jamaican Airline
TPOS               T.P.O'Sullivan and Partners, Consulting Engineers
TRRL               Transport and Road Research Laboratory
TTD                Traffic and Transport Division
VIF                Venezuela Investment Fund
VPD                Vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .....................  ..................    1
A.    General  ................................................    1
B.    The Transport  System  ......................    2
C.    Transport Planning and Coordination .                 .................   4
D.    Financing  ...............................................    5
E.    Summary Status and Prospects  ......              ..................   6
II.    THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .......            .....................                 6
A.    The Highway Network  ....   .....................                        6
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic  .                 .........   7
C.    The Vehicle Fleet  ... . ...............................    7
D.    The Road Transport Industry                   .........................   8
E.    Road Traffic  Safety .................................    9
F.    Highway Administration  .....             .........................    9
G.    Road Planning and Financing                   .........................  10
H.    Engineering and Construction                   ........................  11
I.    Highway Maintenance  . .......................        .... .. .....   12
J.    Summary and Prospects  ......             .........................   14
III.    PAST BANK ASSISTANCE IN THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ............   14
A.    Previous Bank Projects ................... * ..........  14
B.    Summary Assessment  . .. ..........*                ...........    16
IV.   THE PROJECT ..............................................   16
A.    Objectives and General Description  .......                ..........  16
B.    Project Components              ..................................   18
C.    Cost Estimates and Financing  .....                ...................  21
D.    Execution, Procurement and Monitoring                   ...............  24
E.    Project Risks ........  .........e..............               O...........  25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Jamaica during November/December 1978. The mission comprised Messrs. J.
Sargent (Economist), G. Mahoney and A. van Dijck (Senior Highway Engineers)
and Ms. K. Sierra (Economist). The report has been edited by Miss V. R.
Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................................... 26
A.  General        .............................................  26
B.  Methodology ........    .................................  26
C.  Road Deterioration Model .....    ....................... 27
D.  Traffic Volumes and Vehicle Operating Costs ......... 28
E.  Benefits from the Project .....    ...................... 29
F.  Distribution of Benefits .....    ....................... 30
G.   Sensitivity Analysis ................................ 31
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...... .............. 31
TABLES
1.1  Characteristics of Railway Traffic, 1970-1978 .............. ... 34
1.2  Summary of Freight and Passenger Traffic by Mode, 1970-1978 ...  35
1.3 Transport Infrastructure Investment by Mode, in Comparison
with Total Public Sector Investment, 1973/74-1977/78 ........    36
2.1  Retail Sales of Motor Fuel, 1972-1978 ....   .....................  37
2.2 Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions,
1973/74-1977/78   .............................................    38
2.3 Ministry of Works Expenditures on Roads, 1973/74-1977/78 ...... 39
2.4 Directorate of Maintenance Expenditures, 1968/69-1977/78 ......   40
4.1 Estimated Five-Year Road Maintenance Budget Requirements
and Financing        ...............................................  41
4.2 Details of Asphaltic Overlay Work ............................  42
4.3 Details of Sealing and Resealing Works .....   ................... 43
4.4  Details of Equipment Overhaul Program       ........................ 44
4.5 List and Cost of Maintenance Equipment .....   ................... 45
4.6 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .............. ...          46
5.1  Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs .....   ....................... 47
5.2 Calculation of Economic Returns on Proposed Bank Project and
Total Five-Year Maintenance Program (including Proposed
Project) .     ....................................................  48
ANNEXES
1.  Details of the Training Program ............................. 49              A
2.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ... 53
CHARTS
Chart 19891 - Ministry of Works and Communications
Chart 19892 - Directorate of Maintenance
Chart 20063 - Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 14241 - Jamaica - Previous Bank Highway Projects
IBRD 14151 - Jamaica - Fourth Highway Project



JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Jamaica, with an area of 4,410 square miles, is the third largest
island in the Caribbean. The island extends a maximum of 150 miles from
east to west and 55 miles from north to south. A mountainous ridge about
2,500 feet high runs east to west, separating the island into northern and
southern coastal areas. Jamaica's natural resources include bauxite; a
pleasant tropical climate and beaches suitable for tourism, especially on
the north coast; fertile soils for agriculture; and fishing and forest
reserves. In 1977, Jamaica's population was about 2.1 million, and, with
about 490 persons per square mile, it has one of the highest population
densities in the Caribbean. The population growth rate declined in recent
years from 2.2% in 1972 to 1.2% in 1977, largely because of an upturn in net
out-migration. The Kingston metropolitan area, which accounts for 30% of the
country's population, is the country's main market for agricultural produce
and imported goods. Kingston's population is 12 times greater than that of
the next largest city and main tourist resort, Montego Bay. The rest of the
island is dotted by over 1,150 towns and villages serving the rural popula-
tion, which is dispersed relatively evenly throughout the island, except in
inhospitable areas such as the Blue Mountains.
1.02      Jamaica's land transport system is well developed and consists
of about 8,100 miles of roads, a 200-mile long Government-run railway system,
and a few miles of private railway (Map 14241). Because of Jamaica's small
size, average surface haulage and travel distances are short. Nevertheless,
the mountainous terrain makes road and rail transport between the north and
south difficult. The transport requirements of the principal exports, bauxite
and sugar, are adequately met by the existing transport system which ensures
that goods can reach export points quickly. Bauxite-related exports are
carried on railroads and conveyor belts. Apart from these commodities, all
internal freight is by road transport, and practically all passenger traffic
travels on the road system.
1.03      The ports of Kingston and Montego Bay handle general cargo, and
Kingston operates a container terminal partly for transshipment. Six ports
specialize in bauxite exports, and four are principally for the export
of agricultural produce such as sugar and bananas.  Air transport is served
by two international airports as well as by several small domestic airports
and airstrips, six of which offer scheduled services. The two international
airports are at Montego Bay, which serves the north coast and the tourist
traffic, and at Kingston, which serves Jamaica's southern coast and caters
mainly to business and private travel by residents and Jamaicans abroad.



-2-
B.   The Transport System
(i) Railways
1.04      The public railway system operated by the Jamaica Railway Corpora-
tion (JRC) consists of the 110-mile Kingston-Montego Bay line, the 62-mile
Spanish Town to Port Antonio line and about 35 miles of yard, station and
siding lines. Bauxite, which is carried on the Kingston-Montego Bay line, is
the principal commodity carried by the railways. The bauxite companies own
and operate a number of short mine and plant-to-port rail lines (totaling
50 miles), but these companies also provide 99% of the Government-owned railway's
freight traffic. JRC's bauxite-related traffic reached a peak of about
5 million tons in 1974, then fell to a low of 3.1 million tons in 1976 as
bauxite exports declined because of a soft world market, reduced competitive-
ness due to a Government levy introduced in 1974, and labor problems. In
1977, this traffic recovered somewhat, with 3.6 million tons transported.
General merchandise freight traffic declined by 45% since 1971 to 20,000
tons in 1977 (Table 1.1).
1.05      Passenger and general merchandise tariffs have remained unchanged
since 1953; as a result, rail passenger fares remain well below bus fares.
JRC charges contracted prices for bauxite-related traffic. These prices
were recently revised to bring revenue in line with cost, and it is expected
that those lines serving bauxite-related traffic will be profitable in the
future.
1.06      Throughout its history, JRC has operated with a working deficit.
Up to 1972, these deficits were not serious enough for the Finance Ministry to
consider the railway a major financial burden to the Government. The situation
has since deteriorated; deficits have grown dramatically since 1973 and were
estimated to reach J$ 4.8 million (including depreciation) in 1978. Losses
are incurred on the lines serving passenger and general merchandise traffic.
These lines are directly competitive with roads, and cessation of their
services would not cause road capacity problems (para 1.07).
1.07      JRC has proposed additional investment totaling J$ 34 million over
the next five years to improve services to bauxite-related traffic, to attempt
to attract general freight back from roads, to purchase passenger cars, and to
generally improve passenger service. In view of the lack of competitiveness
of rail transport for passenger and general freight, such investments appear
unjustified, particularly given the present tight limitations on Government
spending. The Government agreed during negotiations to study JRC's opera-
tions to identify the most economically viable rail system for Jamaica,
taking into consideration the implications for public finances. The project
provides technical assistance for such a study, which would start by March 31,
1980 and be completed by October 31, 1980 (para 4.12). The precise scope and
terms of reference for the study would be defined no later than December 31,
1979 after a joint review by the Government and the Bank of existing studies.
The Government agreed during negotiations that, unless agreed with the Bank,
no investment of over US$500,000 in any year in rail transport, other than
spending directly related to improving services for bauxite-related traffic,
would be undertaken prior to the above study.



-3-
(ii) Highways
1.08      The highway subsector is reviewed in Chapter II.
(iii)  Ports and Shipping
1.09      Twelve ports are currently operating in Jamaica, handling 13.4
million tons of cargo in 1977 (Table 1.2). Of this amount, 10 million
tons were dry bulk (including bauxite-alumina exports totaling 9.5 million
tons), 2.6 million tons were liquid bulk and 0.7 million tons were general
merchandise. The port of Kingston, which handles 85% of the island's general
cargo traffic, is situated in the world's seventh largest natural harbor and
is Jamaica's most important port. It offers a large area of navigable water
and has a channel and berth depth of 40 feet. The recently constructed
container/transshipment terminal, nine break bulk wharves, roll-on/roll-off
facilities and cruise ship piers have transformed the port into a modern,
efficient and profitable operation. It has become a major transshipment point
for Europe-Orient trade through the Panama Canal. While the volume of cargo
passing through Kingston was reduced by import restrictions in 1976, trans-
shipment, which represents more than half the total traffic, was not affected.
Indeed, traffic volumes increased by almost 100% in 1977. While it initially
seemed that this increase was due to the US longshoremen's strike, 1978
traffic continued to run at high levels and exceeded that of 1977. The
creation of a Kingston Freeport Zone, which offers exemption from duty on
materials imported for processing and reexport, has also attracted new traffic.
1.10      The Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ) has total control only over
the port of Kingston. While it sets port tariffs for all Jamaican ports,
it cannot control investment in other private and public ports. This has
led to uncoordinated port development, and PAJ is currently seeking Govern-
ment support for a takeover of all port operations and development. Despite
the lack of coordination, however, the existing capacity for bauxite-related
exports, which form the most important part of the island's exports, is
adequate. The facilities for the less important commodities (in terms of
tonnage), i.e., bananas and sugar, are also adequate at this time, and no
future capacity constraints are foreseen.
1.11      The Jamaica Merchant Marine (JMM), which was established in 1976
as Jamaica's national shipping company, is 75% Government-owned.  It also
operates JMM Atlantic, a subsidiary which is 80% owned by JMM. The JMM
fleet currently consists totally of charter vessels. The company's principal
goal is to build up its net worth through accumulated profits and to undertake
a program of vessel acquisition which it hopes to commence in 1979 with a
small entry into the US Gulf-Jamaica grain trade. Jamaica also participates
in Naviera Multinacional del Caribe (Namucar), a shipping company set up in
1975 by seven Caribbean states.
(iv) Air Transport
1.12      The rapid increase in air traffic in the early seventies exerted
considerable pressure on the facilities available at Kingston and Montego Bay



- 4 -
International Airports. A Bank project (Loan 1043-JM, US$12.5 million, 1974)
is providing financing for civil works to improve the operational capacity
and levels of service at the two international airports, as well as for tech-
nical assistance to improve management systems and planning. Project imple-
mentation was hampered by financial and managerial problems. After a number
of delays, the civil works are now substantially completed.
1.13      Since 1975, the stagnation of the Jamaican economy and a decline
in tourism have resulted in decreasing traffic flows at both airports, which
has seriously affected the Airport Authority of Jamaica's (AAJ) financial
performance.  Although the airport departure tax was recently increased from
J$ 3 to J$ 8 per passenger, AAJ's financial situation has not improved
since its share remains at J$ 1, while the balance goes to Government general
revenue. Landing fees have also been increased by 55% to compensate for the
devaluation of the Jamaican dollar. AAJ's aggressive management has improved
its financial position in spite of the high inflation and reduced traffic.
However, AAJ will be unable to supply its full contribution to the Bank
project's financing plan. The shortfall will be made up by the Government
with help from the Venezuelan Investment Fund. A determined effort by the
tourist association brought about a recovery in tourist flows in the first
three quarters of 1978. Traffic at Montego Bay was up by 34% over 1977 levels
and up 4% at Kingston.
1.14      Air Jamaica, Jamaica's international airline, was created with
the participation of Air Canada in 1968 and is now wholly owned by the
Jamaican Government. The company's fleet of aircraft consists of four
B727-200's, seven DC-8 jet aircrafts (one leased from another airline) and
three DC9-30's. Of these, three DC-8's and one DC-9 are on lease to other
operators. Air Jamaica operates to North America and Europe, and recently
has added routes to Haiti and Grand Cayman Island. The airline has about
1,200 employees and a route network of 10,400 miles. With the decline of
the economy and the drop in tourist flows, the number of revenue passengers
carried on scheduled routes declined from a peak of 697,000 in 1975 to
555,000 in 1977. In that year, the airline reported a profit of J$ 1.5
million. Air Jamaica has operated regular charter service since 1976 and, in
1977, carried 55,000 charter passengers. Internal air traffic, which is
important, particularly to businessmen, is mainly served by Trans-Jamaican
Airlines Ltd. (TJA), which is 75% Government-owned. TJA offers scheduled
services to six domestic airports, and a number of companies offer charter
services.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
1.15      Transport planning and administration are fragmented among several
Government departments and agencies, and no single body holds a clear line
of authority. The National Planning Agency (NPA), while responsible for
planning public sector investments including transport investments, has a
macro-orientation in its planning approach. The Ministry of Public Utilities
and Transport (MPUT) is responsible for overall policy formulation for aviation,
ports, railways and, more recently, for roads. JRC, AAJ, PAJ and JMM all
report to this Ministry. While the Ministry of Works (MOW) has traditionally
been responsible for formulating policies for public roads, its lack of plan-
ning and coordinating capability has resulted in the Government increasingly
looking to MPUT for investment and policy advice.



1.16      The lack of planning capability within the bodies responsible for
transport policy and the inadequacy of coordination between them became
a source of concern in the early seventies, given the Government's plans at
that time for sizable investments in the transport sector. These plans were
largely based on the recommendations of a national transport survey which was
financed by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and prepared
by the consultants Lamarre Valois International (Canada) in 1968-1970.
Because the Government lacked the staff to analyze modal investment and to
update the survey in light of changing conditions, provision was made in Bank
Loan 1032-JM for technical assistance to establish a permanent Transport
Planning Unit. The Government, however, gave no priority to this initiative,
and Cabinet action to establish the unit within MPUT was taken only in April
1979. The objective of developing adequate capacity for transport planning
would be pursued under the proposed project. The work program of the Transport
Planning Unit for the period 1980/81 was reviewed and agreed during negotia-
tions. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government would
prepare and commence, by November 30, 1979, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
for adequate permanent staffing of the Unit by June 30, 1980. This plan would
include provision for at least two professionals with qualifications and
experience, satisfactory to the Bank, in planning and related disciplines.
D.   Financing
1.17      Between 1973/74 and 1977/78, the Government invested about J$ 215
million in the transport sector. In 1977/78, capital expenditures in the
sector accounted for 26% of total investment by the non-financial public
sector, i.e., the Central Government and Public Enterprises together
(Table 1.3). The investment program included a number of externally financed
projects. The ongoing Bank airports project is receiving local financing
from the Venezuela Investment Fund (VIF), and the Port Authority's invest-
ment program is partly financed by CIDA/EDC. Jamaica's road system has
benefited during the last five years from two IBRD projects (paras 3.03 and
'3.04), plus a road construction project with 50% financing from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and a bridges program 50% financed by
CIDA. These projects were prepared before Jamaica's economic downturn and
reflected the needs for expansion and improvement in the transport sector
during that period. Given the island's current economic situation, however,
the existing infrastructure is generally adequate in terms of capacity.
Priority should be given to investment which ensures that existing infrastruc-
ture receives adequate levels of maintenance and rehabilitation to preserve
current levels of service and efficiency. Provisions for transport investment
in a proposed three-year investment program which is currently being reviewed
by the Government reflect not only this concern but also the Government's
strategy of diverting investment into directly productive activities. Under
this investment program, Central Government expenditures on transport invest-
ment will drop from 12% to 9% of total Central Government capital spending.
The decrease reflects the planned completion of ongoing road projects and the
fact that only two new externally financed transport projects are envisaged
in the next three years, i.e., the proposed project and a continuation of
the CIDA-financed bridges program.



- 6 -
1.18      The users of roads and ports generally meet the capital and
operating costs of these services. Road users, in fact, make a contribution
which is greater than total spending on road improvement and maintenance
(para 2.16). Airports were able to meet their capital and operating costs
during the pre-1976 tourist boom. However, with tourism less buoyant and
given a reluctance to raise landing fees fully in line with costs, AAJ income
generates a net current surplus but does not adequately cover depreciation.
Of railway users, only those served by the bauxite lines make a contribution
which offsets operating costs. The agreed work program for MPUT's Transport
Planning Unit includes an analysis of transport sector user charges and costs
and the formulation of recommendations concerning appropriate user charge
policy for the future.
E.   Summary Status and Prospects
1.19      The basic transport infrastructure which Jamaica will require
during the process of economic recovery over the next five to ten years is
in place. Adequate and serviceable infrastructure for international connec-
tions is vital for this island country, and the seaport and airport facili-
ties which exist or are currently being improved are adequate for the task
ahead, although from time to time the ports will need additional specialized
equipment. That part of the railway network which carries bauxite traffic
is in need of some upgrading, and the road network is adequate for current
levels of traffic. The basic problem facing Jamaica will be maintaining the
level of serviceability and efficiency of this existing infrastructure to
meet the demands of a reviving economy. More attention will be needed in
assessing the physical condition of transport infrastructure and in planning
and financing its maintenance and, if necessary, rehabilitation.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      Jamaica's road network is relatively extensive and totals about
8,100 miles (Map IBRD 14241). The main non-urban network, which is the res-
ponsibility of MOW, totals about 3,000 miles, of which two-thirds, or 2,000
miles, is paved. This network is composed of almost 500 miles of heavily
trafficked main arterial roads, 500 miles of secondary main roads connecting
to arterials, and 2,000 miles of tertiary local roads which accommodate traf-
fic in and between districts.  The remainder of the island's roads total some
5,100 miles, of which 4,500 miles are maintained by Parish Councils and about
600 miles are urban-type roads administered by KSAC. The road network dev-
eloped from horse-drawn carriage roads and bridle paths which were gradually
adapted for the use of motor cars, and, because of the island's rugged in-
terior, it developed initially along the coast. Today the main road system
can be characterized as a coastal ring with three main roads crossing the
mountains and connecting the northern and southern coasts directly.



- 7 -
2.02      Over the last 15 years, the arterial roads have undergone some
major improvements. Nevertheless, it is apparent that much of the network
was not designed or built with any specific engineering standards in mind.
Extremes and inconsistencies are found everywhere, and alignments are quite
variable and often tortuous. Subgrades and drainage characteristics vary
considerably within short distances. Perhaps because of these factors,
the pavement has been repaired, patched and resealed in very short lengths,
leaving an impression of uneven, fragmented surfaces. Similarly, the quality
of pavement surfaces throughout the islands is variable. However, the
asphaltic concrete surfaces laid as part of the Bank Road Improvement and
Maintenance Project (Loan 899-JM, US$9.3 million, 1973, para 3.03), the
precursor of this project, consist of good quality material and have very
good riding characteristics. Some of the older machine-laid surface has also
worn remarkably well. The standards of surfacing achieved in the recent
resealing program are also acceptable. The surfaces of the older sealed
sections vary from poor to good, and there does not appear to be a relation-
ship between quality and age. In general, the present road system is adequate,
but well planned and executed routine and periodic maintenance is needed to
prevent further deterioration which would lead to expensive major reconstruc-
tion works.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.03      MOW conducts regular traffic counts on the island's more heavily
trafficked roads, and each MOW Parish office annually submits order-of-
magnitude assessments of the traffic volumes on each road section in the
Parish. In addition, ad hoc studies such as the axle load survey, conducted
by consultants T.P. O'Sullivan and Partners (TPOS) (UK) under Loan 899-JM,
have been carried out. MOW estimates of annual vehicle miles traveled on
main arterial roads indicate that traffic increased by 6% to 9% per annum
between 1968 and 1974, and then, because of increased fuel prices and
Jamaica's economic downturn, stagnated and declined after 1976. The most
reliable indicator of traffic growth available is the volume of retail sales
of motor fuel. Sales figures show that retail sales of gasoline and
diesel fuel fell by about 10% between 1976 and 1978 (Table 2.1), which
confirms MOW estimates of a drop in traffic for this period. Traffic growth
over the next few years is expected to be minimal, reflecting the gradual
economic recovery.
2.04      MOW's and TPOS' traffic counts on the main road network indicate
that the highest traffic volumes on the island are found on the Kingston-
Spanish Town road (ADT 23,700) and the Spanish Town-Mandeville road (ADT
9,500). Other main roads near Kingston, Spanish Town, Montego Bay and Ocho
Rios have relatively heavy traffic, with ADT's from 3,000 to 6,000.
C.   The Vehicle Fleet
2.05      The only vehicle fleet data available report the number of vehicles
which pass inspection. Inspection is not strongly enforced, however, and
these data underestimate the fleet since a growing number of older cars still
on the road would not pass inspection. The number of vehicles which passed
inspection declined by 19% from about 89,000 units in 1975/76 to 72,000 in



- 8 -
1977/78. Of the latter, 67% were cars, 19% were heavy vehicles (trucks and
buses) and 13% motorcycles. The age and average annual mileage of the fleet
have changed considerably since 1976 as a result of the curtailment of the
import of motor vehicles in that year and the overall decline in the island's
economy. With continuing import restrictions, older vehicles are remaining
in service for much longer than in the past. As would be expected, expendi-
tures on spare parts and maintenance labor have risen substantially in an
effort to keep the older vehicles on the road.
2.06      Jamaica's urban population receives service from two Government-
owned bus companies which operate in Kingston and Montego Bay. Inter-urban
and rural passenger routes are served by 200 bus companies running 485 buses
and by mini-buses. Rural public passenger services are important because
people frequently work, and children go to school, several miles from their
homes. Eighty percent of the island's bus companies are small, with three
buses or fewer. The small and medium sized companies are experiencing a
number of problems ranging from a lack of spare parts to high insurance
costs, low fares, and, not least of all, tough competition from mini-buses.
Mini-buses, with their greater frequency and door-to-door service, are highly
patronized. An MPUT all-island traffic survey conducted in January 1978
estimated that 4,200 mini-buses are currently operating, of which 3,500 are
not licensed; about 1,250 are in Kingston, 1,200 in the north coast Parishes,
and 1,750 in the south coast Parishes. Mini-buses have 35% of the market
share in the Kingston and St. Andrews Corporation (KSAC) and about 65%
elsewhere. The MPUT study concluded that only a few large companies should
operate scheduled bus services on highly trafficked routes, and that,
in addition, mini-bus service should be provided on these and all other
routes. The Government is actively supporting the importation of mini-buses
for rural services.
D.   The Road Transport Industry
2.07      The trucking industry is regulated by the Traffic and Transport
Division (TTD) of the Island Traffic Authority. The industry is divided
into two groups: (a) trucking companies and owner-operators which compete
for general business and (b) specialized trucking companies which provide
inland transport and transshipment services to the roll-on/roll-off ship
operators and container companies. Rates for the first group are set by
competition within ceilings set by TTD, while rates for those companies
serving port-related demand are set by contract.
2.08      The downturn of economic activity in Jamaica has had a negative
impact on the trucking industry. Trucking business has decreased by about
40% since 1976, and, as a result, many companies have been forced to close.
Furthermore, the scarcity of spare parts and inadequate maintenance facilities
may lead to the serious deterioration of about 40% of the remaining vehicle
fleet in the next two years. If this occurs, the fleet will not be able to
satisfy freight transport demand, and transport rates can be expected to rise.
The ceiling on road transport rates, which remained stable because of increased
competition between 1976 and 1977 in the face of the general economic decline,
recently increased by 25%; a second increase of 10% has been authorized for



- 9 -
March 1979. Those specialized trucking companies and owner-operators which
serve port-related demand are, in contrast, relatively healthy, and their rates
are adequate, having kept pace with inflation.
2.09      The road transport industry is not closely regulated by the Govern-
ment. Present road traffic regulations are considered inadequate in that
they specify permissible axle loadings for public service vehicles, but only
gross loadings for all other vehicles. In addition, the Government grants
permits which authorize operators to overload, but the permit price vastly
undercharges the vehicle users in relation to the damage caused to the
roads. The cost resulting from the stress imposed on the country's road
pavements from heavy vehicles has concerned both the Government and the
Bank, and the Government agreed, as part of Loan 899-JM, to review its road
traffic regulations. As part of this review, TPOS, under the loan's tech-
nical assistance component, conducted a review of appropriate vehicle weights,
axle loadings and road user charges and recommended setting a maximum axle
loading for all vehicles and increasing license fees for overweight vehicles
to recover the cost of damage (report of October 1978). On the basis of
these recommendations, the Government has prepared an axle-load control
program, including proposals for necessary changes in present regulations,
the purchase and installation of weighbridges (to be procured under Loan
1032-JM), details of enforcement and a schedule for program implementation.
Agreement was reached on this program during negotiations, and the Government
would initiate necessary legislative action to bring about the agreed changes
in present regulations by December 31, 1979.
E.   Road Traffic Safety
2.10      The Island Traffic Authority (ITA), which is responsible to MOW,
keeps records of traffic accidents and produces monthly accident statistics.
ITA purportedly uses these data to pinpoint areas where accidents frequently
occur and, on that basis, posts traffic signs or lays dividing lines as
needed. Despite ITA's efforts, however, traffic signs in Jamaica are generally
inadequate, especially in the mountain areas where roads are very curved and
narrow. Indeed, road accidents on the island are more prevalent on roads with
restricted visibility and poor geometry. MOW, when carrying out the road
improvement and maintenance works under Loan 899-JM, identified those parts of
the road network which were accident-prone and, where possible, reduced the
dangers caused by poor geometry and visibility through preparatory works prior
to the scheduled overlay or reseal and through the use of skid-resistant
surfacing materials. These same efforts will be made under the proposed
project.
.
F.   Highway Administration
2.11      MOW, MLG and the Ministry of Agriculture share responsibility for
maintaining and improving the island's road network. MOW is responsible for
the construction and maintenance of arterial and secondary roads. MLG is
responsible for roads maintained by Parish Councils, while both MA and MOW
construct, and MA maintains, agricultural feeder roads. Planning for the
greater Kingston area is performed by KSAC, which reports to MPUT.



- 10 -
2.12      MOW is organized into eight directorates, of which five are technical
and three are responsible for administrative, financial and personnel matters
(Chart 19891). The Directorate of Maintenance (DM) is responsible for ensuring
that the planning, execution, and administration of road, bridge, buildings
and drainage channel maintenance are carried out. The Directorate of Construc-
tion (DC) executes and administers capital projects financed by MOW's budget
while the Directorate of Major Projects (DMP) administers externally financed
projects. The Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services (DEMS) is
responsible for purchasing, maintaining and repairing all Ministry vehicles.
The Directorate of Technical Services (DTS) is responsible for the survey,
design, estimates, specifications, progurement of contract work financed from
budgetary sources, land acquisition, traffic surveys and laboratory investiga-
tions and research.
2.13      MOW's lack of technical staff has been and continues to be a serious
problem which limits the Ministry's capability to execute ordinary works in
general and Bank-financed projects in particular. The staffing situation is
precarious since over 53 technical officers have been lost in the past two
years, mainly through emigration or to higher paying parastatal and private
organizations. While only a skeleton engineering staff remains in DM, the
directorate is well staffed with overseers and supervisors, many of whom
benefited from the training provided under Loan 899-JM. MOW and the Finance
Ministry acknowledge that the retention of suitable local staff may be depen-
dent on the payment of special allowances (in Jamaica, a "project" and a
"iscarcity" allowance have existed in the past). MOW is pursuing the intro-
duction of this type for its engineering and its technical staff. The
Government has recently decided that professionals attached to internationally
financed projects will be paid at special rates which are adequate to retain
qualified staff.
G.   Road Planning and Financing
2.14      The planning responsibility at MOW is held by the Chief Technical
Director, assisted by DMP. Lacking a planning unit, the Ministry relies
upon foreign consultants to prepare major highway investment programs. The
Five-Year Road Maintenance Program which includes the proposed project was,
for example, prepared with the aid of consultants under the technical assist-
ance provision of Loan 899-JM. MOW, in turn, reviews the consultants' recom-
mendations but does not have the staff to analyze the proposed investment's
impact on the network and on the transport sector. Under Loan 1032-JM, MPUT
is establishing the Transport Planning Unit (paras 1.15 and 1.16). The
Government has decided not to invest in any new infrastructure over the next
two years and will limit capital spending to projects, such as the proposed
project, which preserve existing infrastructure through periodic maintenance.
2.15      Road expenditures are financed from annual budget allocations
provided by the Central Government to those ministries responsible for roads,
and from loans from international agencies. Table 2.2 provides a summary of
funds provided for roads between 1973/74 and 1977/78. Total expenditures on
roads increased in real terms by 78% between 1973/74 and 1976/77, and then
declined by 36% the following year, reflecting a decrease in annual allocations



- 11 -
due to tight Government spending strictures. Road investment expenditures by
MOW accounted for about 75% of all capital expenditures on roads during the
past five years. Of this amount, about 30% was spent on periodic maintenance
and minor improvements of roads (Table 2.3). While these expenditures have
reduced the backlog of periodic maintenance somewhat, increased expenditures
are needed in the coming years in order to restore the road network to
acceptable levels of serviceability and to prevent further deterioration.
MOW routine maintenance expenditures have declined, in real terms, by about
25% in the last five years (Table 2.3). As a result, routine maintenance has
been insufficient, especially for activities requiring equipment and materials.
Funds required to complete routine maintenance adequately have been identified
in the Five-Year Road Maintenance Program and are presented in Table 4.1.
2.16      Revenues from road user charges, although not earmarked for highway
expenditures, are sufficient to cover all road expenditures, including new
construction (Table 2.2). In 1976/77, for example, total spending on roads
was J$ 60.4 million, of which 72% was for capital investment. Revenue from
road user charges totaled J$ 70.5 million in that year. Taxes on gasoline,
including a 10% consumption tax introduced in 1974, are the most important
revenue source (Table 2.4). The price of gasoline is now about US$2.00
equivalent per imperial gallon, of which 65% is tax, and US$0.55 per imperial
gallon for diesel fuel, which is not taxed. The implications of not taxing
diesel fuel would be reviewed by MPUT's Transport Planning Unit. Other
revenue sources are import and license duty on motor vehicles, import
duty on tubes and tires and driver's license duty.
H.   Engineering and Construction
2.17      DTS is responsible for all aspects of engineering (surveys, site
and laboratory investigation and design) of capital projects financed wholly
from the budget. The standards and quality of this work are adequate. DMP
is responsible for similar services on projects financed externally and
utilizes consultants.
2.18      Construction is carried out both by force account and by contract.
DC often carries out earthworks and pavement base construction by force
account but bridges, major drainage structures and paving are executed by
contract after local competitive bidding and, in some cases, negotiations.
Externally financed construction projects are executed by contract after
international competitive bidding. Recent road resurfacing has been mostly
contracted through local competitive bidding because of the small contract
sizes and scattered locations.
2.19      At present, the construction industry in Jamaica is in a very
depressed state, although there are sufficient qualified small paving contrac-
tors to execute the proposed project. During the economic recession over the
past few years, rapidly increasing material prices and labor costs, serious
labor unrest, emigration of skilled workers and bans on import of equipment
and spares have forced many local contractors to close down temporarily or to
abandon the industry completely. The same factors make work in Jamaica at the
present time extremely unattractive and risky for foreign contractors. Under



- 12 -
Loan 1032-JM, the Third Highway Project, a UNDP-financed study of the domestic
construction industry was carried out during 1978 with a view toward deter-
mining ways and means of assisting industry development. The conclusion of
the study is that direct assistance to the industry is not practical at pres-
ent and that a period of economic growth and increased capital expenditures
is necessary before a practical assistance plan can be prepared.
I.   Highway Maintenance
2.20      DM is headquartered in Kingston and operates through its seven
area offices which are divided into 14 Parish offices (Chart 19892). The
Parish offices are further subdivided into 43 Divisions, 10 of which are con-
cerned only with building maintenance in the KSAC Area.  Supervision and
control of the area field organizations are shared by two Chief Superin-
tendents at headquarters who report to the Director. In addition, the post
of Chief Engineer (Maintenance) was created in 1973; his staff includes three
County Engineers who initially served as counterpart staff to the consultants
supervising the civil works and periodic maintenance carried out under Loan
899-JM. Gradually, these engineers have taken the role of technical advisors
to the various Areas through the Chief Superintendents, but it has been
agreed that they will revert to their initial role of counterpart staff to
supervise the preparatory and periodic maintenance work proposed under this
project. In contrast to almost all other units in MOW, DM is fairly well
staffed, particularly in the field units, with generally competent personnel.
Present strength is 23 officers at headquarters and a field staff of over
1,400.
2.21      Considering the financial constraints (para 2.15) and the low
equipment availability (para 2.24), the overall quality of road maintenance
work is good. However, there has been a tendency to utilize available funds
for activities with a high labor content such as vegetation control and ditch
cleaning, with the result that pavement patching, drainage improvements
and other works requiring equipment and materials have received insufficient
attention. It is expected that the scope and balance of road maintenance
activities will be greatly improved under the proposed project by provision of
adequate routine maintenance funds (para 4.05), proper work planning and cost
accounting (paras 2.22 and 2.23) and increased availability of equipment
(para 4.09).
2.22      In 1975, a system called Road Maintenance Programing (ROMGRAM)
was introduced at the Parish level for the planning and scheduling of road
maintenance work. Under this system, the type and timing of maintenance
work on all roads by control sections (more or less homogeneous sections)
were defined for the coming year and served as a basis for preparing the
budget request and determining the needs for equipment, materials and labor.
However, since the system was fully implemented in 1976, such substantial
cuts have been made in the annual budget requests that much of the forward
planning effort has been dropped and the system is presently used only to
record the various types of maintenance work actually done. ROMGRAM is a
simple and very useful system and, during negotiations, agreement was reached
with the Government that it will be used as intended for road maintenance
planning and budget preparation.



- 13-
2.23      A Road Maintenance Works Costing System (RMCS) was introduced
together with ROMGRAM to provide all levels of DM with reports on expendi-
tures, by maintenance activity, of each control section and breakdowns of
expenditures by labor, materials, equipment and overhead. So far, however,
reports only on total costs by work types have been produced, at somewhat
irregular intervals, which provide little if any data for assessing past
performance or to serve as a basis for forward maintenance planning.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that the
present use of RMCS will be reviewed and a reporting system introduced to
provide essential control and planning data at the various levels in DM.
2.24      Road maintenance equipment is provided from the MOW equipment
fleet administered and controlled by DEMS. At present, the fleet totals
about 1,000 units (two-thirds vehicles and one-third equipment), of which
about 430 units are assigned to DM for road maintenance and distributed
throughout the 13 Parishes. The size and type of the road maintenance fleet
would be generally adequate if an average 70% availability were maintained,
but the current average is only about 43% because of the age of the fleet,
serious shortages of spare parts and low productivity of the equipment main-
tenance organization. In addition, utilization of available fleet is only
about 45%, mainly because of priority use of maintenance funds on mostly
labor-intensive work (para 2.21). The TPOS report presented a five-year
program for road maintenance equipment replacement, of which the first two
years (1979/80-1980/81) will be financed under the proposed project, and,
during negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government that it
will continue the program for the following three years (1981/82-1983/84) when
the Hire Funding scheme (para 2.26) is expected to be fully operational.
2.25      As a result of serious economic problems during the past few years,
there has been a substantial depletion of spare parts stocks, and it is esti-
mated that less than 20% of needed parts are now on hand. To initiate and
support a road maintenance equipment overhaul program, the proposed project
would finance spare parts and major components needed to repair salvageable
equipment over the first two years of a five-year program as well as the
foreign exchange costs of essential workshop tools and some minor workshop
additions and improvements. The project would also aid in designing and
implementing a proposed parts stocking system, and assurance was obtained
from the Government during negotiations that it will maintain an adequate
stock of spare parts in subsequent years.
2.26      In early 1976, a Hire Funding scheme was introduced in MOW as a
means of developing the funds needed for equipment replacement and spare parts
by charging rental rates related to fuel consumption to users of the fleet.
After some initial problems, billings are now being issued fairly promptly,
but proper accounts were not set up for costing and allocation of income and,
most importantly, funds generated were not used by MOW as intended and most
were diverted to the Government's general revenue accounts. Thus, the system
has not fully achieved its goal of providing funds for spare parts and
replacement units. The proposed project would aid DEMS in setting up the
proper accounts, and, during negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the
Government that, by March 31, 1980, a special fund will be established



- 14 -
within which all proceeds generated by the Hire Funding scheme will be
retained, and that equivalent foreign exchange will be made available as
needed for the purchase of spare parts and replacement equipment.
2.27      Under Loan 899-JM, Road Improvement and Maintenance Project,
several training programs related to road maintenance were developed and
conducted by TPOS together with MOW counterpart staff. The courses covered
most aspects of road maintenance activities in the field, with special
emphasis on supervision and quality control of the periodic maintenance work
to be carried out under the loan. Seminars on operating the Hire Funding
scheme and on equipment operation and maintenance were also carried out in
DEMS. On-the-job training also played an important role in improving skills
of DM staff.  Following substantial completion of the project, a number of
the shorter courses were consolidated, and some general engineering subjects
added to produce a 10-week course which has been conducted at about four-
month intervals, mainly for work overseers from the field organization of DM.
About 110 work overseers out of a total of 215 participated in these longer
courses.  In addition, 21 DM staff took part.  While these training activities
have been extremely beneficial, it is recognized in MOW that some additional
training, mainly in the more basic aspects of routine road maintenance and in
equipment maintenance and repair, is badly needed. The proposed project will
aid DM and DEMS in establishing these needed training programs (para 4.12).
J.   Summary and Prospects
2.28      Jamaica's road network is basically complete.  Major improvements
to the network, beyond those already included in the Third Highway Project
(para. 3.04), would not be justified in the current economic situation or
during the next five years of expected gradual economic recovery. The basic
need over the coming years, as reflected in the design of the proposed
project, is for preservation of the existing road network. Some parts of the
network have, because of past lack of adequate maintenance, reached a critical
point. During loan negotiations, the Bank (para. 4.05) obtained formal
agreement from the Government that the Five-Year Road Maintenance and
Improvement Program (para. 4.03), directed at preservation of the country's
road capital, will be the cornerstone of its policy for the subsector.
III. PAST BANK ASSISTANCE IN THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   Previous Bank Projects
3.01      The Bank's previous involvement in the highway subsector consists
of three projects (Map IBRD 14241). The First Highway Project (Loan 408-JM,
US$5.5 million, 1965) was made for detailed engineering and construction of
main arterial roads. The Second Highway Project (Loan 899-JM, US$9.3
million, May 1973) was for road maintenance and is the precursor of the
proposed project. The Third Highway Project (Loan 1032-JM, US$13.5 million,
June 1974) was for construction of about 20 miles of arterial roads.



- 15 -
3.02      The Bank's First Highway Project was for detailed engineering and
construction, including supervision, of (a) the Kingston-Spanish Town road (15
miles of four-lane road); and (b) the Moneague Crescent Park Road (four miles
of two-lane road). Initially, that project also included construction of the
Spanish Town-Bog Walk road (eight miles of four-lane road) but this, with the
Bank's approval, was subsequently deleted as a result of increased costs.
Execution of the project was delayed because of difficulties in right-of-way
acquisition, unsatisfactory performance of subcontractors, problems in relo-
cation of public utilities and inter-union labor disputes, resulting in the
contractor, claiming frustration of contract, abandoning work after 90% com-
pletion. The contractor's claims were settled through arbitration, and the
work was satisfactorily completed by force account. The loan was closed in
1973, and a Project Performance Audit Report was issued in August 1975.
3.03      The Second Highway Project comprised (a) resurfacing of 440 miles of
road with asphaltic overlay and resealing of 250 miles of roads with a double
surface treatment; (b) procurement of maintenance equipment; and (c) technical
assistance by consultants to supervise the overlay and resealing, assist in
the procurement of maintenance equipment, introduce costing and better plan-
ning of maintenance operations, and provide training to DM staff (para 2.27).
The bituminous overlay works proved far more costly than estimated at appraisal,
and only 210 out of the planned 440 miles were completed. Of the 250 miles
scheduled for reseal, 240 miles were completed. MOW's capacity as a road
maintenance organization was improved, a Maintenance Manual was prepared, and
budgeting and costing procedures were introduced. Some US$2.6 million worth
of maintenance equipment was purchased, and an equipment Hire Funding scheme
(para 2.26) was introduced under the Loan. However, because of an inadequate
accounting system and lack of Government support, the scheme has not evolved,
as anticipated, into a self-financing fund for purchase of equipment and spare
parts. The lack of spare parts and consequent unavailability of equipment has
emerged as one of the important problems addressed in the proposed new project.
Despite the fact that only about half of the overlay works were completed, the
project has been successful in improving maintenance standards by eliminating
part of the backlog of periodic maintenance work. The project was substantially
completed in February 1979. The project completion report for this project is
scheduled to be issued in June 1979.
3.04      The Third Highway Project comprises (a) construction of about 20
miles of two-lane new arterial road; (b) construction of five secondary access
roads totaling about 3.2 miles; (c) procurement and installation of four weigh-
bridges; and (d) consulting services for supervision of works under (a) and (b)
and for assistance in transport planning. The project also includes technical
assistance to aid the local contracting industry financed by UNDP and technical
assistance for pavement design and performance evaluation financed by the
British Government. The project has encountered substantial time delays and,
mainly because of them, some cost increases. These problems stemmed mostly
from unresponsive bids on one road section and a contractor failure on
another, mostly due to unexpected major inflation and serious labor problems.
As a result, MOW attempted to carry out substantial major construction by
force account, which, until recent strengthening of equipment and staffing
inputs, proved beyond its capabilities to manage and execute in a timely



- 16-
manner. There has been considerable recent improvement in the rate of
progress, and it is now expected that construction will be completed in late
1980, some three years later than scheduled at appraisal. MOW is presently
taking steps to procure and install the weighbridges and will operate them in
accordance with the agreed axle load control program (para 2.09). The
technical assistance to the Transport Planning unit is expected to be com-
pleted in 1980 (para 1.16).
B.   Summary Assessment
3.05      Although it fell short of its initial objectives, the Second Highway
Project made a substantial contribution toward improving the quality of main-
tenance works in MOW and toward the preservation of the road network. These
advances have proved to be particularly important in light of Jamaica's present
period of economic difficulty. The Third Highway Project was directed at re-
lieving congestion on the most heavily trafficked sections of the network.
This project was conceived before the country's economic downturn, and, although
the works are still justified, the project is somewhat out of step with the
present need to concentrate scarce resources on maintenance and rehabilitation.
As a response to the change in the country's economic situation since the
project's inception, the design standards have been reduced wherever possible.
In addition, the earthworks and pavement base works are being completed by
force account, providing useful employment for MOW workers. The proposed
Fourth Highway Project would support the initiation of a Five-Year Road
Maintenance Program 1980-1984 which would provide a framework for the pre-
servation of the road network and consolidate the advances made under the
previous project, particularly in maintenance planning and fleet management.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
4.01      The objectives of the project are to continue the improvements in
road maintenance operations and management started under Loan 899-JM by
financing a portion of a national Five-Year Road Maintenance Program. The
project would further reduce the backlog of periodic road maintenance,
initiate a maintenance equipment overhaul and replacement program and
generally improve the standards of road and equipment maintenance management.
4.02      Under Loan 899-JM, the technical assistance consultant, TPOS,
prepared a Five-Year Road Maintenance Program in 1973. Later, the Govern-
ment and the Bank agreed that the program should be updated and an economic
justification prepared to serve as a basis for possible Bank and other
financing agency participation. The further study was carried out by TPOS
with financing by funds remaining in Loan 899-JM, and the draft final report
was issued in October 1978. The Government has adopted the recommended Road
Maintenance Program for the fiscal five-year period April 1979 to March 1984,
a part of which comprises the proposed project.
4.03      The proposed project would essentially cover the non-recurrent
expenditures over the first two years of the Five-Year Road Maintenance
Program. The program and the portions proposed for the project are as
follows:



- 17 -
(a) Routine maintenance of the almost 3,000 miles of road for
which MOW has responsibility. The proposed project would
not participate directly in this work but the equipment
acquisition and overhaul (items (g) and (h) below) and the
technical assistance (item (i) below) would provide essential
support to this activity.
(b) Asphaltic concrete overlay of existing pavement on about
107 miles of primary and main secondary roads. The proposed
project would finance 76 miles of this work representing road
sections having the highest economic priority for implementation
in the first two years of the program.
(c) Asphaltic resealing with double surface treatment of some
544 miles of arterial, secondary and tertiary road. About
253 miles of this work, selected on the same basis as for the
overlay work, would be carried out under the proposed project.
(d) Asphaltic sealing of 60 miles of gravel tertiary road, of which
about six miles would be included in the proposed project.
(e) Preparatory work such as drainage improvements and surface
patching for (b), (c) and (d). The proposed project would
assist in financing such works on the road sections to be
overlayed and sealed under the project.
(f) Minor improvement works on some 37 miles of various classes
of roads. As in the case of routine maintenance, the proposed
project would not participate directly in this work but would
support it via the equipment acquisition and overhaul compo-
nents of the project (items (g) and (h) below).
(g) The procurement over the five-year period of about 535 units
of replacement road maintenance equipment. Of this, some
210 units representing the first two years' needs would be
acquired under the proposed project.
(h) The procurement of spare parts needed for a program of over-
hauling salvageable units of the present road maintenance
equipment fleet together with workshop tools and minor work-
shop improvements. The proposed project would finance these
elements.
(i) About 150 man-months of technical assistance by consultants
(a) for the implementation of MOW's Five-Year Program
and the training of MOW field maintenance and mechanical
staff; and (b) to study the viability of the railway system.
4.04      Summary costs for the Five-Year Road Maintenance Program and for the
proposed project are shown in the following table:



- 18 -
(US$ Million) 1/
The Project               79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84   Total
-- Bank                    4.8       6.1      3.0       0.6         0     14.5
-- Government              2.4       3.0      1.5       0.4         0      7.3
Subtotal               7.2       9.1      4.5       1.0        0      21.8
Recurrent Maintenance
Expenditures by the
Government 2/              4.4       4.5      4.5       4.5       4.5     22.4
Remaining Capital
Expenditures by the
Government and
Other Sources              3.0       2.3      3.3       6.6       7.6     22.8
Total                 14.6      15.9     12.3      12.1     12.1      67.0
1/   At June 1979 prices and including physical contingencies.
2/   Excluding administration and overhead costs.
4.05      The Government has agreed to make the required budget provisions
to support the Program over the five-year period. During negotiations, the
following specific assurances regarding financing were obtained:
(a)  that required counterpart funding for the proposed project
(para 4.18) would be provided via annual budget allocations;
(b)  that all funds would be provided for the recurrent expenditures
required under the agreed Five-Year Road Maintenance Program
as detailed in Table 4.1; and
(c)  that, for the remaining capital cost elements of the Program,
the Government would provide the local currency requirements
via the annual budget and actively seek financing for any
foreign exchange costs which cannot be met from Government
resources. It was also agreed that the Government would give
priority to the remaining capital cost elements of the Program
over other highway capital expenditures with due exception for
expenditures related to emergency, safety and bauxite production.
In addition, agreement was reached with the Government that the Ministry
of Finance and Planning and MOW would consult with the Bank on the amounts
required for recurrent maintenance expenditures and for the remaining capital
components of the Program (items (b) and (c) above), in the preparation of
MOW's annual budget proposals.
B.   Project Components
(i) Asphaltic Overlay and Surface Treatment
4.06      The project provides for an asphaltic concrete overlay, averaging
about 2 inches in thickness, of about 76 miles of the most heavily trafficked
arterial and main secondary roads. Some 11 different road sections would be



- 19 -
involved (Table 4.2), most of which are located in the western part of the
island (Map IBRD 14151); the road sections were confirmed during negotiations.
The overlays would substantially improve the riding qualities of the existing
pavement (para 5.03) but, most importantly, would provide the added strength
required for the road structure to accommodate expected traffic without
further serious deterioration.
4.07      About 253 miles of arterial, secondary and tertiary roads would
receive a double asphaltic surface treatment under the project, and about
four miles of gravel tertiary road would receive an initial asphaltic seal
coat. This work would be fairly well distributed throughout the island
(Map IBRD 14151) with 36 different road sections involved (Table 4.3). These
project elements were reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.  Although
these road sections show no obvious signs of structural distress or failure,
surface deterioration due to age and traffic wear has reached the point where
routine maintenance is no longer effective.
4.08      The project also includes limited works needed to prepare the road
sections for the project overlay and sealing. Included would be some minor
geometrical works to improve sight distances and traffic safety, improvement
and some additions to essential drainage facilities and pavement patching
needed to accommodate the new surfacing. Since delays in these preparatory
works resulted in further delays and subsequent cost increases in the overlay
and resealing work under Loan 899-JM, it was agreed that the MOW would begin
these works in April 1979 (works commenced April 17, 1979), so that contractors
could start initial surfacing work immediately after loan signing, estimated
to be July 1979. The estimated cost of these works up to July 1979 is about
US$1 million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$440,000, which is
recommended for retroactive financing.
(ii) Overhaul of Road Maintenance Equipment
4.09      The low (43%) availability of MOW's road maintenance equipment fleet
has been described previously (para 2.24). Salvageable units of presently
deadlined equipment were identified by TPOS which, together with DEMS, has
prepared an overhaul program which is expected to increase average availability
to 70% after two years. Table 4.4 presents details of the program, which was
confirmed during negotiations. The proposed project would finance procure-
ment of the spare parts and replacement components necessary for this program
and, in addition, would provide the necessary spare parts to establish basic
stocks for future equipment maintenance which is expected to be funded ade-
quately by revenues from the Hire Funding scheme (para 2.26).
4.10      A relatively small, but important, element of the project would
be the provision of workshop tools and minor additions and improvements to
selected workshops to support the equipment overhaul program and facilitate
proper routine maintenance of equipment in use. The list of tools to be pro-
cured and the improvements to be made to the workshops were reviewed and
agreed during negotiations.



- 20 -
(iii) Road Maintenance Equipment
4.11      An essential component of the proposed project would be to replace,
over a two-year period, about 210 units of MOW's road maintenance equipment
fleet which are obsolete or beyond repair. Table 4.5 presents a list of
equipment to be procured and estimated costs, which were reviewed and agreed
during negotiations. The project will initiate a continuous equipment replace-
ment program by financing the first two years' needs, after which it is
expected that funds for annual replacement needs will be generated from the
Hire Funding scheme (para 2.26).
(iv) Technical Assistance and Training
4.12      The needs for technical assistance to DM and DEMS within MOW for
implementation of the agreed Five-Year Road Maintenance Program have
been noted previously (paras 2.22-2.27). Specifically, the project would
provide techical assistance by consultants for the following:
(a) Preparing bidding documents for the periodic road main-
tenance work, evaluation of bids and supervision of
construction;
(b) Supervising preparatory works required for (a);
(c) Reestablishing ROMGRAM as a means of annual road main-
tenance planning and budgeting and RMCS as a means of
providing necessary control and planning cost data;
(d) Setting up proper accounting procedures for the Hire Fund-
ing scheme and a review of equipment rental rates;
(e) Designing and implementing a spare parts stocking system
and procurement of spare parts and workshop tools to support
the road maintenance overhaul program;
(f) Preparing specifications and bidding documents for procure-
ment of replacement equipment units;
(g) Designing local courses and training appropriate staff in DM and
DEMS; and
(h) Assisting MPUT in a study of the viability of the railway
system.
4.13      In order that the surfacing and resealing work and the procurement
of replacement equipment and parts for the overhaul program can proceed with
minimum delay after the proposed loan is signed, some of the technical assis-
tance under (a), (b), (d), (e) and (f) in paragraph 4.12 is being carried
out via an extension of TPOS' services under Loan 899-JM. The terms of
reference for this extension, involving 24 man-months, were approved by the
Bank; the extended services began on January 1, 1979 and will continue to
November 1979. The consultants will provide two civil engineers, a mechanical
engineer and an accountant.



- 21 -
4.14      The Bank has agreed that the services of TPOS for the remainder
of the technical assistance requirements (except for the railway study) will
be continued under the proposed project by means of a new contract. About
140 man-months will be involved, extending the services of the three engineers
and accountant presently at work and adding two more civil engineers, a stores
manager and a systems analyst. The terms of reference for the extended
services and the staffing plan for both expatriate and local staff were agreed
during negotiations. An additional 10 man-months of consultant technical
assistance has been included for the railway study (item (h), para 4.12).
Proposals for this consultant service would be solicited by NPUT's Transport
Planning Unit. The 1980/81 work program of the Transport Planning Unit
was agreed during negotiations.
4.15      Many of the consultants' activities under the technical assistance
program will provide valuable "on-the-job" training, but a very important
element of their services will be to assist MOW, particularly DM and DEMS,
to implement some essential training in the areas of basic road maintenance
activities and in equipment maintenance and repair. A comprehensive program
for such training, prepared by MOW with assistance from the consultants,
was agreed during negotiations (Annex 1). During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained from the Government that the programs established under the project
will be permanent and will be continued after the consultants have completed
their assignment. The project would also provide selected opportunities for
training abroad for qualified technical staff.
(v) Budgetary Requirements
4.16      If the amounts allocated to road maintenance in the annual MOW budget
requests over the past four years had actually been approved and spent on main-
tenance, the road system would be in generally good condition, with only a
nominal backlog of deferred periodic maintenance work. However, mainly because
of the economic recession in recent years, the funds made available were con-
siderably less than needed (the TPOS report estimates that only 60% of the funds
needed in 1978/79 were released). In addition, there were some distortions in
the use of available funds (para 2.21) with the overall result that many routine
maintenance requirements were not fully met and the backlog of periodic main-
tenance has been increasing. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
that MOW will adequately maintain the highway network for which it is respon-
sible and that the funds needed for this purpose and for counterpart funding
of the agreed Five-Year Road Maintenance Program will be made available via
timely releases from the annual budget (para 4.05). These budget requirements
are in line with MOW's absorptive capacity.
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.17      Prevailing high rates of inflation, combined with a policy of
periodic devaluation of the J$ and uncertainties in predicting local inflation,
make it preferable to present cost estimates only in US$ equivalents. The
proposed project is estimated to cost about US$26 million equivalent based on
June 1979 prices and including contingency allowances as shown in the table on
the following page. The local tax content of this cost is estimated at about
7.5%, consisting mainly of taxes on materials and equipment purchased for civil
work contracts. The total Five-Year Road Maintenance Program is estimated
to cost about US$67 million, as summarized in the table on page 18.



- 22 -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(Millions US$)
Bank
Items                                  Local      Foreign (%)    Total    Participation
Amount   (%)
A. Periodic Road
Maintenance
1) Pavement Overlay                      1.65       3.05 (65)       4.70      2.63
2) Pavement Sealing and
Resealing                             1.36       2.51 (65)       3.87      2.17
3) Preparatory Works
for 1) and 2)                         2.95       1.96 (40)       4.91      2.75
Sub-Total         5.96       7.52 (56)      13.48      7.55   (56)
B.  Road Maintenance
Equipment Overhaul
1) Parts, Components and
Workshop Tools                      0.10       1.94 (95)       2.04      1.94   (95)
2) Workshop Improvements                 0.15       0.15 (50)       0,30      0.t}   (56)
Sub-Total         0.25       2.09 (89)       2.34     2.11
C. Road Maintenance
Equipment                                 0.14      2.76 (95)       2.90      2.76   (95)
D.  Technical Assistance and Training         0.22       0.96 (80)       1.18     0.96   (80)
Base Costsl/      6.57      13.33 (67)      19.90    13.38
E. Contingencies
1) Physical -/                           0.79       1.19            1.98      1.19
2) Price    2/                           2.41       1.48            3.89      1.45
Total Project Cost    9.77       16.00 (62)      25.77    16.00   (62)
1/ At June 1979 prices.
2/  Physical  - 10% of Al), A2), B and 15% of A3) and D.
Price Contingencies - The projected rates of price increase of local costs shown
below are related to prices expressed in US$ and reflect the forecast that staged
devaluations in 1979 and 1980 will not fully compensate for local inflation.
Civil Works                Equipment    Consultants
Local       Foreign
1979 - 20% (1/2 year) 7% (1/2 year)    6%             7% (1/2 year)
1980 - 10%             7%                6%           7%
1981 -  7%             7%                6%           7%
1982 -  7%             7%                6%           7%



- 23 -
4.18       The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of the
project estimated at US$16.0 million, equivalent to 62% of the total project
cost and about 24% of the total cost of the Five-Year Road Maintenance Program.
The Government would finance the local component of project costs (including
taxes and transfers) and the recurrent and other capital costs required to
carry out the agreed Five-Year Road Maintenance Program (para 4.05).
4.19       Cost estimates for the asphaltic overlays, sealing and resealing
are based on TPOS estimates, which were prepared using quantity estimates
from detailed road condition inventories and current contract rates in Jamaica
for this type of work. Estimates for preparatory work are also based on TPOS
road condition inventories and on recent costs of similar work by MOW force
account. Estimates of parts and components for the equipment overhaul program
are based on condition inventories of the present road maintenance equipment
fleet, and the costs of replacement equipment and workshop tools are based on
lists prepared by TPOS and DEMS together with manufacturers' quotations and
recent purchases in the region. The estimate for workshop improvements is
based on preliminary plans prepared in DEMS. Technical assistance costs are
estimated on the basis of an average rate of about US$7,300 equivalent per
man-month (including transportation), which is in line with current costs of
these services. Overseas training for 15 mechanics and equipment operators
would cost about US$75,000.
4.20       The foreign exchange components of the surfacing, sealing and
resealing, and preparatory works have been estimated from unit price analyses
and from costs under Loan 899-JM at 65%, 65% and 40% of total costs respec-
tively, with execution by local contractors except for the preparatory work,
which would be done by force account. For spare parts, workshop tools and
replacement equipment, the foreign exchange component has been estimated at
95% of total costs on the basis of c.i.f. prices at the port of entry and on
the assumption that all items would be obtained from foreign sources. The
foreign exchange component for workshop improvements is estimated at 50% since
this work would be carried out by local contractors or by force account and
would utilize local materials to the maximum extent possible. The technical
assistance, apart from the railway viability study, would be provided by TPOS,
and the foreign exchange component for these services is estimated at 80% on
the basis of foreign and local costs as specified in their present agreement.
All estimates of local and foreign exchange costs were reviewed and verified
during negotiations.
4.21       Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 56% of expenditures for overlay, sealing, resealing,
preparatory works, and workshop improvements;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports of spare
parts, replacement equipment and workshop tools; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditure for technical assistance by
consultants and for training.



- 24 -
Disbursement would be made against standard documentation for all items
except preparatory works. In the latter case, disbursement would be against
certificates of force account expenditures verified by the technical assistance
consultants. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 4.6.
Disbursement upon the technical assistance for the railway viability study would
be conditional on Government submission of the plan for permanent staffing of
the Transport Planning Unit (para 1.16).
4.22      Retroactive financing would be provided for expenditures made up to
a total of US$440,000 equivalent for preparatory works (para 4.08) carried out
after April 17, 1979 to permit surfacing work to begin as soon as the loan is
signed.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
4.23      MOW would be responsible for project execution, with DM and DEMS
playing key roles. To ensure proper management and control of the project,
MOW confirmed during negotiations the full-time assignment by December 3, 1979
of at least four civil engineers (two are already assigned), one mechanical
engineer and two accountants, acceptable to the Bank, who will serve as the
key counterparts to the techical assistance consultants' staff (para 4.14).
The assignment of three of the civil engineers, the mechanical engineer, and
one of the accountants would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.24      The implementation period for the project would be about three and
a half years (mid 1979 through 1982). Chart 20063 presents an implementation
schedule for all project elements, which was reviewed and agreed during nego-
tiations. The preparatory and surfacing work would extend over slightly
more than a three-year period from early 1979 through about mid-1982; procure-
ment of equipment, spare parts and workshop tools would require about two
years from late 1979 to final delivery in late 1981, and the technical assist-
ance would cover a three-year period from fall of 1979 to fall of 1982.
4.25      In order that MOW, assisted by the technical assistance consultants,
can provide adequate supervision and control, and to afford maximum opportunity
for bidding by qualified local contractors, the asphaltic overlay and resealing
work would be awarded in eight packages, each consisting of several relatively
small contracts (all less than about US$0.6 million) over a period of about 18
months. Because of this schedule, the small contract sizes and the scattered
locations of the roads involved, the work is considered to be of no interest
to foreign paving contractors; none are presently established in Jamaica.
Therefore, this work will be carried out by contract following local competi-
tive bidding by prequalified contractors, with foreign firms afforded the
opportunity to participate. This is similar to the procedure followed under
Loan 899-JM which yielded responsive and competitive tenders. The makeup of
the various contracts and packages was agreed during negotiations. The minor
workshop additions included in the project would also be carried out by
contract after local competitive bidding, or, if bids are not responsive,
by force account.
4.26      Because the type and quantities of work involved cannot be estimated
to the required accuracy, the preparatory work for the surfacing is considered



- 25 -
unsuitable for execution by contract. Therefore, this work would be carried
out under force account by MOW, as was done successfully under Loan 899-JM.
Since the work would be accomplished over a time span of some 24 months, it is
well within the capabilities of the MOW field units; quality and quantity
supervision would be provided by the technical assistance consultant.
4.27      The procurement program for equipment, spare parts and workshop
tools indicating lot sizes and estimated costs, would be subject to prior
approval by the Bank. Contracts for equipment (including about one year's
supply of spare parts) and for workshop tools estimated to cost over US$75,000
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement" (March 1977). Other
contracts for parts and tools with estimated costs of less than US$75,000,
but not exceeding an aggregate of US$500,000, would be procured in accordance
with current MOW procedures, which are satisfactory. This would include,
inter alia, contracts for proprietary procurement of spare parts for existing
equipment to be purchased directly from established dealers in accordance with
local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
4.28      All plans, specifications and bidding documents for surfacing work,
equipment, spare parts and tools would be subject to review and approval by
the Bank. All procurement procedures and schedules were reviewed and agreed
during negotiations.
4.29      Principal indicators by which the project would be monitored are:
(a)  availability of road maintenance equipment (para 4.09
and Table 4.4);
(b)  development of revenues under the Hire Funding scheme and
their use in acquiring necessary spare parts and replacement
equipment as compared with schedules and targets to be
prepared by MOW and the technical assistance consultants;
(c)  execution of the preparatory works, overlays, sealing and
resealing under the project and the Five-Year Program as
compared with schedules prepared by MOW and the technical
assistance consultants; and
(d)  budgeting of adequate funds for the project and the
Five-Year Program as agreed during negotiations and
annual consultations with the Bank (para 4.05) and the
prompt release of those budgeted funds.
The purpose of the project indicators and the reporting requirements to assure
timely collection of needed data were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
E.   Project Risks
4.30      As previously discussed in paragraphs 2.13, 2.24 and 4.16, the main
reasons for past deficiencies in road maintenance have been lack of funds,
shortages of equipment and serious loss of technical staff. These problems



- 26 -
represent the principal project risks, and considerable attention has been
given to their solution in the preparation of the Five-Year Program and the
proposed project. Detailed estimates of both local and foreign currency
requirements for all elements have been prepared. They were reviewed with
the Government during negotiations, and the agreements reached were the
subject of specific commitments, including annual consultations on future
budget requirements (paras 4.04, 4.05 and 4.16). The equipment overhaul and
replacement elements of the proposed project, coupled with technical assistance
to aid in making the Hire Funding scheme fully operational, will initiate a
continuous program for the proper maintenance and timely replacement of equip-
ment and are expected to result in proper levels of availability. The problem
of serious losses of technical staff in MOW and other Government units has been
discussed with the Government in the context of this proposed project and other
Bank lending operations. However, this is a matter which must be addressed and
solved by the Government, and there is little else that the Bank can do other
than provide technical assistance (para 4.12) and require assignment of key
counterpart staff as conditions for proceeding with the project as described in
paragraphs 4.13 and 4.23. Therefore, in view of the above, it is believed that
there will be sufficient reduction in the principal risks related to the proj-
ect to warrant expectation of reasonable success in reaching the project's
objectives.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  General
5.01      Given the reduced economic activity in Jamaica  and the country's
tight fiscal situation, MOW's main objective should be to prevent further
deterioration of the road network through maintenance and rehabilitation.
This objective is reflected in MOW's Five-Year Road Maintenance Program, which
provides not only for the improvement and rehabilitation of about 711 miles of
roads through periodic maintenance but also for timely routine maintenance for
the whole network, and additionally for the training of MOW staff and strength-
ening of the management of the equipment fleet, both of which are essential in
ensuring adequate maintenance in the future. The overall Program, including
periodic and routine maintenance, equipment and spare parts purchase and tech-
nical assistance, is well justified, with an economic rate of return in excess
of 50% (para 5.10). Within the Program, those overlay, seal and reseal works
which would be financed under the proposed Bank project have been identified
and evaluated separately. All have an economic return greater than 50%.
Details of the economic evaluation of the major components of the Bank project
follow.
B.   Methodology
5.02      The economic evaluation of the periodic maintenance works (overlay,
seal and reseal) which would be financed under the Bank project has been based
on the assumption that, if the project works are implemented, the roads will
receive the appropriate periodic maintenance, which, considering their current
condition and forecast traffic levels, will restore the roads to high levels



- 27 -
of serviceability. This "with" project case is compared to a "without" project
scenario, in which the roads receive only intensive routine maintenance and
continue to deteriorate until they fail. The consultants' estimate, based on
their and MOW's long experience with overlays in Jamaica, is that the average
expected life of an overlay, with intensive patching, is 16 years. This is
longer than normally expected in other parts of the world and is the result
of the peculiarly strong subgrade conditions and relatively low levels of
traffic. The economic life of a seal and a reseal is estimated at seven years,
which is in the normal range. Quantifiable benefits to be derived from the
overlay, seal and reseal works are:
(a) vehicle operating cost savings through the improvement
of road condition;
(b) passenger time savings through the reduction of travel
time; and
(c) reduction in annual maintenance costs on the roads
which were overlaid or resealed.
The economic evaluation justifies the costs of the overlay and reseal work
financed by the Bank project.
5.03      The selection of roads for inclusion in MOW'S Program and the Bank
project is based on recommendations by the consultants TPOS after conducting a
road condition survey on about 3,000 miles of roads maintained by MOW plus
roads recommended for improvement by MA and the Parish Councils. A screening
procedure, similar to a first-year benefit analysis, was used to identify
priority roads. This procedure took into account traffic levels, changes in
road surface roughness resulting from three alternative actions (patching,
resealing and overlay) and consequent vehicle operating cost savings, as well
as the costs of these alternative actions. A first year benefit-cost ratio
calculated for each road section indicated the preferred action for the
representative year (1980). Subprojects were ranked and aggregated into the
MOW Five-Year Road Maintenance and Improvement Program, of which the Bank
project forms part, subject to an estimated budget constraint. An economic
evaluation of the Five-Year Program and the project was prepared, based on a
model of road deterioration formulated by the consultants (para 5.04), esti-
mates of vehicle operating costs and travel time costs (paras 5.07 and 5.08).
C.   Road Deterioration Model
5.04      The consultants considered using the IBRD/TRRL Highway Design Model
(HDM) but decided against its use because of the inadequacy of data in Jamaica
and their inability, within the time available, to determine the parameters
required to calculate road deterioration in the HDM. Instead, the consultants
assessed the rate of road deterioration using experience gained under Loan
899-JM backed with data available from several pavement deflection surveys
carried out over the years. Pavement roughness was measured by a "bump integ-
rator," a device similar to that used in the Kenya experiments for recording
roughness of ride in a test vehicle; roughness was related to the time since
the most recent periodic maintenance had been performed, and to the traffic



- 28-
levels over that period. The results of this exercise indicate that a newly
overlaid road has a surface roughness of 25 inches/mile, and a resealed road
(double surface treatment), 125 inches/mile. Observations of roads which
received only routine patching between 1972 and 1978 indicate that intensive
remedial surface patching could maintain roughness at around 210 inches/mile;
this is the "without" case for the proposed project. The analysis further
indicated that, after a single surface treatment, a road would have a surface
roughness of 135 inches/mile, which would increase by about 10 inches/mile (7%
per annum) for two years, and then 15 inches/mile (10% per annum) thereafter to
a ceiling of 210 inches/mile, when "breaking-up" would commence. After a double
surface treatment, the road would deteriorate by 10 inches/mile for four years
and then by 15 inches/mile for three years, when the 210 inches/mile limit
would be reached. After an overlay, road roughness is assumed to increase by
5 inches/mile for seven years and then by 15 inches/mile for nine years. It
was reasonably assumed in the "with" project case that very little patching
would be required for at least three years after a reseal and for seven years
after an overlay. Bank staff observations of periodic maintenance work accom-
plished under Loan 899-JM bear out these assumptions.
D.   Traffic Volumes and Vehicle Operating Costs
5.05      The principal benefits from the proposed periodic maintenance work
will be derived from operating cost savings for vehicular traffic expected
on the roads. MOW conducted seven-day traffic counts at 17 locations and
these were augmented by "moving vehicle" counts on each of over 500 road
control sections. Special surveys were conducted where access to possibly
significant agricultural, industrial and tourist areas was involved and to
determine traffic composition. Cars accounted for about 50% of the traffic,
vans and minibuses 25%, buses 2% and trucks 23%. Vehicle occupancy surveys
were also effected.
5.06      Historical traffic data were not sufficiently reliable for fore-
casting purposes, and attempts by the consultants to correlate traffic with
economic indicators and macro-economic time series produced highly variable
forecasts. Therefore, the most directly related surrogate was used, i.e.,
the volume of retail sales of motor fuel. Fuel sales have, in the past,
closely paralleled traffic growth. The Jamaican oil refinery's recent fore-
casts of fuel consumption are broadly in concurrence with economic expecta-
tions, i.e., an initial decline in 1977 and 1978 and a possible return to slow
growth in 1979. The appraisal mission verified the projected against the
actual fuel consumption to end-November 1978. In light of the continuing
uncertain economic situation, the consultants chose to project a zero traffic
growth rate for the five-year road maintenance program period. On the basis
of the Bank's analysis for the proposed Second Program Loan, this would appear
to be a slightly conservative, although by no means unrealistic, assumption,
and it has been adopted for the economic evaluation. The economic returns on
the proposed project are not very sensitive to alternative likely assumptions
regarding prospective traffic levels (para 5.14).
5.07      Table 5.1 provides summary information on operating costs for the
three vehicle types - cars, buses and medium (7-ton capacity) trucks - for
major road condition types and average speeds. For first class roads (i.e.,



- 29 -
recently overlaid) with a surface roughness of around 25 inches per mile,
average traffic speeds of 35 mph were measured while, on paved roads in poorer
condition (second and third class), average speeds fell to around 30 and 25 mph
respectively, with higher vehicle operating costs. Some of the components of
vehicle operating costs have risen substantially in recent years, particularly
fuel, because of the international oil pricing situation and labor costs. The
latter have surged ahead as a result of the virtual embargo on importation of
new cars since 1976 and the poor availability of spare parts due to the tight
foreign exchange situation. Thus, substantial additional labor has been
devoted to more intensive maintenance operations and repair of existing spare
parts.
5.08      Accident costs under the various road conditions were not calcu-
lated; the benefits from reduction in the accident rate that would result from
improved surface conditions have not been quantified and are not reflected in
the estimated economic returns of the project. Allowance was made in the
calculation of vehicle operating costs for savings of leisure and commuting
time, but these were insignificant (less than 5% of benefits) in comparison to
direct operating costs and savings. The values allotted to leisure and
commuting time were J$ 0.07/ hour and J$ 0.28/hour, respectively, which appear
reasonable.
E.   Benefits from the Project
5.09      It was estimated from the observed vehicle operating cost-road
roughness relationship that a change of one inch of road surface roughness
per mile caused, on the average, a change of J$ 0.0018/mile (US$0.0011)
in vehicle operating costs. The calculation of the average change in vehicle
operating costs takes into account the composition of vehicle types in Jamaica
(para 5.05) and the different operating costs by type of vehicle. These sav-
ings, combined with the roughness model detailed in paragraph 5.04, enabled
estimation of road user benefits associated with alternative periodic main-
tenance interventions as opposed to an intensive patching strategy. In
addition to the benefits from savings in vehicle operating costs from the
periodic maintenance activity, the analysis included routine maintenance cost
savings. The maintenance activity savings for the first several years after
resealing and overlays were estimated at J$ 200/mile (US$70/km) per annum and
J$500/mile (US$180/km) per annum respectively. These savings are of rela-
tively minor magnitude compared with vehicle operating cost savings. Taking
into account the economic cost of the proposed works, the overlay works in the
Bank project have a benefit cost ratio of about 11.0:1 and the resealing works
about 3.4:1 with a weighted average ratio for the civil works, including
preparatory works, of 7.3:1. The overall economic return on the proposed Bank
project is well in excess of 50% (Table 5.2). In terms of traffic, the Bank
project includes asphaltic overlay work, which is relatively costly (about J$
100,000 per mile including preparatory work) for roads with over 1,000 vehicles
per day (VPD) and resealing (relatively cheap at about J$ 48,000 per mile
including preparatory work) for roads with 300-1,000 VPD. Tables 4.2 and 4.3
set out traffic levels on all the major roads to be included in the project.



- 30 -
5.10      The benefits from investment in road maintenance and workshop equip-
ment and overhaul of existing equipment will be reflected essentially in non-
project works, i.e., routine road maintenance and Government's ongoing periodic
maintenance over the four years of the project. Thus, the entire 3,000 miles
of road network maintained by MOW would benefit in some degree from the use
of this equipment. While no separate evaluation has been effected for the
equipment component, the depreciation costs of equipment were included in the
consultants' economic evaluation of the overall Five-Year Program, which had
economic returns well in excess of 50% (Table 5.2).  Further, the routine road
maintenance, after due account is taken of its share of the equipment costs,
has even higher returns. In essence, the equipment provided under the project
can easily justify its purchase in the first two years of its operation.
5.11      As in the economic evaluation of Loan 899-JM, the economic cost of
unskilled labor has been valued at 50% of wage cost. The general unemployment
situation in Jamaica has not improved notably since 1972 and currently hovers
around 25% of the estimated work force. While most unemployment is concen-
trated in the cities, extensive under-employment exists in rural areas. The
economic benefits of the project are not sensitive to alternative assumptions
about the economic cost of unskilled labor since this constitutes a very small
proportion of total costs.
5.12      Over the four-year period, it is estimated that the direct incre-
mental employment generation of the project would entail about 1,600 jobs,
of which about 1,400 would be for unskilled laborers. The possibility of
including a higher labor-to-capital ratio was considered. However, there
already exists a high labor content in routine maintenance in Jamaica because
of the lack of adequate working equipment, the socio-political need to keep
on the payroll a large MOW field staff and the concentration in routine
maintenance on small labor contracts for activities such as grasscutting.
The extra labor input needed in the future is in pavement patching, for which
at least semi-skilled labor is required. The conclusion is that the unskilled
labor content has already at least reached the minimum technical standards
for good road maintenance.
F.   Distribution of Benefits
5.13      While it is not possible to identify the beneficiaries of the
maintenance works precisely, the direct benefit to the unskilled labor
force is not insignificant (para 5.11). Further, about 200 miles of paved
tertiary roads are included in the project, and these are principally farm-to-
market roads. The great majority of small farmers have easy access to these
tertiary roads, and a significantly reduced cost of transporting agricultural
produce to market and bringing in supplies will accrue mostly to them. Sav-
ings will also accrue to consumers of staple food products, and, thus, reduced
transport costs will have a larger relative impact on the island's lower income
population. The assumption that producers and consumers of goods which are
transported on the road system will benefit from the project is reasonable
since the trucking industry is in serious financial difficulties (tariffs have
not been keeping pace with inflation) and operators have been competing for
business in a declining economy (para 2.08).  Bus passenger transport outside



- 31 -
the urban areas is also highly competitive, with bus companies and a large
number of single vehicle operators offering service on principal routes.
Therefore, it could be expected that a large proportion of the transport cost
savings from the project would be passed on to consumers of transport services
on the project roads, who are principally rural dwellers.
G.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.14      The economic benefits of the works to be performed under the project
are so high, because of the backlog nature of the maintenance work, that the
economic returns are not sensitive to pessimistic assumptions. Given the
recent decline in traffic, to conceive of a future decline in traffic levels
of, e.g., 5% p.a., would imply a further major decline in economic activity.
However, such a situation would have only a very minor effect, roughly propor-
tional (or 5%) negation of benefits (Table 5.2). Charging to labor its full
wage cost instead of an economic cost estimate of 50% reduces the economic rate
of return negligibly. Alternative pavement deterioration rates were also
tested, but found not to noticeably affect the overall level of viability of
the project.
5.15      As for capital investment costs for the overlay and resealing works,
as long as local contractors are used and the IMF wage guidelines continue to
be observed, the principal cost escalation would be in the price of asphalt.
Since this varies in Jamaica broadly in line with exchange rate changes and
international fuel prices, any major unforeseen price increase would immediately
also be reflected in vehicle operating cost savings, far and away the major
source of project benefits.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) scope and schedule for a study of the rail system; no investment
of over US$500,000 in any year in rail transport, other than spending
directly related to improving services for bauxite-related traffic,
to be undertaken prior to the study (para 1.07);
(b) work program and plan for permanent staffing of the Transport
Planning Unit (para 1.16);
(c) an axle load control program and legislative action to change
present road traffic regulations (para 2.09);
(d) ROMGRAM use for road maintenance planning and budget prepara-
tion (para 2.22);
(e) RMCS to provide control and planning data (para 2.23);
(f) continuation of the equipment replacement program (para 2.24);



- 32 -
(g) maintaining an adequate stock of spare parts (para 2.25);
(h) retaining Hire Funding income in MOW accounts and making
equivalent foreign exchange available (para 2.26);
(i) required counterpart funding for the proposed project
(para 4.05);
(j) funding requirements for recurrent expenditures under
the Five-Year Program (para 4.05);
(k)  funding for remaining capital cost elements of the Five-
Year Program (para 4.05);
(1) annual consultations with the Bank concerning budget
requirements for the proposed project and the Five-Year
Program (para 4.05);
(m)  road sections to be surfaced under the proposed project
(paras 4.06 and 4.07);
(n) equipment overhaul program (para 4.09);
(o) list of tools to be procured and workshop improvements
to be made (para 4.10);
(p) list of replacement equipment to be procured and estimated costs
(para 4.11);
(q) terms of reference for the technical assistance consultants and
the staffing plan for both expatriate and counterpart staff
(para 4.14);
(r) the 1980/81 work program of the Transport Planning Unit of
NPUT (para 4.14);
(s) training programs under the project and their continuation
after the technical assistance consultants have completed
their assignment (para 4.15);
(t) adequate maintenance of the road network by MOW
(para 4.16);
(u)  all estimates of cost (para 4.20);
(v) number and qualifications of key MOW counterpart staff
(para 4.23);
(w) project implementation schedule (para 4.24);
(x) packaging of civil works contracts (para 4.25);
(y) procurement procedures and schedules (para 4.28); and
(z ) project indicators and reporting requirements (para 4.29).



- 33 -
6.02      Disbursement on the technical assistance for the railway viability
study would be conditional upon Government submission of the plan for permanent
staffing of the Transport Planning Unit (para 4.21).
6.03      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be the
assignment of approved MOW staff to key counterpart posts (para 4.23).
6.04      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$16.0 million equivalent. The term would be 17 years
including a four-year grace period.
June 6, 1979



- 34 -                   TABLE 1.1
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Characteristics of Railway Traffic, 1970-1978
Freight Traffic
Tonnage (thousand tons)
Bauxite-                              Freight ton    Passenger Traffic
Alumina        General                   Miles           Journeys
Industry     Merchandise     Total     (million)        (thousand)
1970      2,935           38          2,973       77.5             1,147
1971      3,095           37          3,132       83.6             1,067
1972      4,121           36          4,157      113.2             1,012
1973      4,288           32          4,320      116.3             1,018
1974      4,860           29          4,889      132.2             1,088
1975      3,906           24          3,930       99.2             1,186
1976      ,o078           22          3s100       97.2             1,193
1977      3,580           20          3,600       88.5             2,000
1978       n/a           n/a          3,500       87.5             2,700
Source: Jamaica Railways Corporation
February 1979



TABLE 1.2
-35 -
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Freight and Passenger Traffic by Mode, 1970-1978
Passenger Traffic
(thousand passen'ers)
Railway                                            Aviation
Domestic!/        International
1970            1,147                                   n/a                 1,400
1975            1,186                                  24.4                 1,719.5
1976            1,193                                  32.2                 1,485.2
1977            2,000                                  35.0                 1,371.1
1978            2,700                                   n/a                 1,600.0 2/
Fraieht Traffirc
Railways            Aviation    Kingston            Ports
(million freight        Thousand                    (million t
ton - miles)       (metric tons)                All Others    Total
1970                  77.5               14.0          3.0           12.7         15.7
1974                 132.5               17.6          n/a            n/a          n/a
1975                  99.2               18.0          1.2           11.0         12.2
1976                  97.2               15.0          1.0            10.0        11.0
1977                  88.5               17.2          1.9           11.5         13.4
1/ Does not include Mandeville with about 5,000 passengers per annum in 1977,
nor domestic passengers to Montego Bay, estimated at 40,000 in 1977.
2/ Estimated
Source: Jamaican Railway Corporation,
Airports Authority of Jamaica, Department of Civil Aviation,
Port Authority of Jamaica.
February 1979



- 36 -                        TABLE 1.3
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure Investment, by Mode
In Comparison with Total Public
Sector Investment, 1973/74 - 1977/78
(millions of J$)
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78/
Transport Sector
Roads-/                               12.9     28.3      37.8     43.6      38.6
3/
Railways-                              3.0      2.3       3.2      2.4       1.3
Airports Authority-/ 4/                0.2      0.7       1.0      5.3       3.0
4/
Air Jamaica-                                     -         -       1.4       1.1
Port Authority-/                       3.4      3.4      16.5      5.0       2.3
Jamaica Omnibus Service-                         -         -       1.1       0.2
Total                            19.5      33.4     58.8      57.4     46.2
Total Central Govt. &
Enterprises Investment                                          212.4    181.3
Total Public Sector Investment-/                                 453.1    395.0
Transport Sector Infrastructure
Investment as a Percentage of:
Central Govt. & Public Enter-
prise Investment                                               27.0     26.0
Total Public Sector Investment                                 13.0     12.0
1/  Preliminary
2/  Includes expenditures by MOW, MLG, Ministry of Agriculture, KSAC
3/  Adjusted for fiscal year.
4/ Public Enterprises.
5/ Includes Fixed Investment by the Nonfinancial Public Sector (Central Govern-
ment and Public Enterprises) Public Sector Capital Grants, Public Financial
Institutions and the Jamaican National Investment Corporation.
Source: Ministry of Finance, Jamaica Railways Corporation, Port Authority of Jamaica,
Airports Authority of Jamaica.
February 1979



Table 2.1
- 37 -
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Retail Sales of Motor Fuel, 1972-1978
(1,000 Imperial gallons)
Year                  Petrol1/             Diesel                Total
1972                  57,400               12,425              69,825
1973                  62,125               14,035              76,160
1974                  55,195               14,875              70,070
1975                  59,185               16,240              75,425
1976                  63,280               15,365              78,645
1977                  58,030               14,350              72,380
1978                  56,175               14,000              70,175
Annual Average Growth Rate
1972-1976             2.5%                  5.4%                3.0%
1976-1978            -5.6%                 -4.3%               -5.2%
1/ Regular and Premium
Source: Shell Oil Company
February 1979



- 38 -                     TABLE 2.2
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions
1973/74--1977/78
(millions of J$)
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/7 4       
A. Expenditures on Roads
Recurrent                          -9.5      14.0     12.6     16.8      11.4
Capital                            12.9     28.3      37.8     43.6      38.6
Total                         22.4     42.3      50.4     60.4      50.0
Total US$ equivalent 1978 prices  52.0      81.9      87.0     92.5      59.6
B. Motor Vehicle Contributions
Import Duty on road motor
vehicles                          13.9      12.4     13.7     21.0      14.1
Import Duty on tubes and tires      0.4      0.3       0.3      0.7      n/a
License Duty on motor vehicles      6.6       6.8      9.4     10.0      12.4
Excise Duty on gasoline 2/          8.7      10.7     38.1     37.6      37.4
Driver's License Duty               0.7      0.8       0.9      1.2       1.5
Total                         30.3     31.0      62.4     70.5       n/a
Total US$ equivalent 1978 prices  82.1       71.9    120.8    121.7       n/a
1/ For expenditures, budget figures; for contributions, actual figures.
2/ After 1974/75 includes consumption tax.
Source: Expenditures: Ministry of Finance
Contributions: Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
February 1979



TABLE 2.3
-39 -
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Works Expenditures on Roads 1973/74-1977/78
(thousands of J$)
Item                                            1973/74     1974/75      1975/76     1976/77      1977/78
Recurrent Expenditures
Road Maintenance                                2.1         2.3          2.2          3.0         3.2
Walls, Bridges and Culverts Maintenance         0.4         0.4          0.3          0.5         o.6
Flood Danage Repairs                            1.3         1.5          1.3         1.1          2.3
Sub-Total                                      3.8          4.2          3.8         4.6          6.1
Capital Expenditures
Main Road Construction and Major                1.8         3.8          2.4          2.5         3.4
Improvements
Minor Improvements of Main Roads                0.4         3.3          3.1          4.2         3.3
Asphalting and Resurfacingi/                    o.6         0.5          o.6          1.1         1.1
Farm Roads                                      3.0         4.7          8.5         1.8          1.8
Special Roads2/                                 0.9         0.5          2.4          3.6         1.8
Secondary Main and Parish Council Roads         0.1         0.1          1.3         4.0          5.0
Bridges                                         1.6         2.4          2.5          2.3         3.5
Flood Damage Preventive Measures                0.2         0.3          0.4          0.2         0.5
IBRD Projects
-- First Highway Project
Loan 408-JM                               1.3           -            -           -            -
-- Road Improvement and
Maintenance Project Loan 899-JM            0.5         2.3          5.2         5.7          4.6
-- Third Highway Project
Loan 1032-JM                                -          1.2          4.7         6.1          4.5
Sub-Total                                     10.4        19.1        31.1         31.5         29.5
Total Expenditures                            14.2        23.3         34.9        36.1         35.6
Total, US$ equivalent 1978 prices             32.9        45.1         60.3         55.3        42.4
1/  Reported as Recurrent Expenditure in Ministry of Works accounts; see Table 2.5.
2/ Allocations made under a Government employment program.
Source: Ministry of Works
February 1979



JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Directorate of Maintenance Expenditures, 1968/69-1977/78
(thousands of J$)
1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78
Item
Road Maintenance
Maintenance of Road                           934    1,018    1,344    1,507    3,255    2,127    2,280    2,218    2,997    3,159
Maintenance of Bridges,
Walls and Culverts                           198      206       289       308      343       364      402       282       506      601
Emergency Flood Damage Repairs                460      693       847       453      299    1,278    1,466    1,247    1,114    2,274
Asphalting and Resurfacing 1/                 315       337      506       529      639       571       619      613    1,113    1,084
Sub-Total                               1,907    2,254    2,986    2,797    4,576    4,340    4,767    4,360    5,730    7.118
Non-Road Maintenance 2/                         954    1,206    1,647    1,772    2,638    2,036    3,399    3,530    4,667    5,833              1
General-Administration & Supervision          1,594    1,548    1,963    2,177    2,560    3,377    4,602    5,639    5,390    5,842
Total                                        g=456    =,===8    6,=    6766           7Z   1=2=   12J76                            18,===
Total US$ equivalent 1978 prices             18,851   20,105   24,679   23,632   29,140   32,705   24,727   23,363   24,186   22,387
1/ Does not include asphalting and resurfacing under Bank Loan 899-JM (see Table 2.2).
2/ Includes buildings maintenance and minor works and maintenance of drainage channels and flood control areas.
Source: Ministry of Works
February 1979



- 41 -                     Table 4.1
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Five-Year Road Maintenance Budget Requirements and Financing
(J$ Million at June 1979 Prices)
I.  Routine Maintenance                                                               Total
Budget                   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1979-1984
Administration and
Overhead                 2.53       2.53       2.53       2.53       2.53     12.65
Labor                       3.20      3.40       3.40       3.40       3.40     16.80
Materials                   1.20       1.30      1.30       1.30       1.30      6.40
Equipment Operation
and Spares               1.80       1.80       1.80       1.80      1.80       9.00
Emergency Repairs           1.65      1.65       1.65       1.65       1.65      8.25
Sub-Total       10.38      10.68     10.68      10.68      10.68     53.20
II. Capital Budget
Administration and
Overhead                 1.35       1.35       1.35       1.35       1.35      6.75
Minor Improvement Works   2.59         2.59      2.60       2.61       2.61      13.00
Periodic Maintenance       11.39     13.52       6.48       8.87       9.05     49.31
(Bank Financing)        (4.80)    (6.95)    (2.51)    (0.91)         (0)    (15.17)
Equipment Acquisition         0       2.61       4.51       2.00       2.00     11.12
(Bank Financing)          (0)      (2.51)    (2.46)        (0)       (0)      (4.97)
Equipment Overhaul          3.82      0.79         0  1/      0  1/      0  1/   4.61
(Bank Financing)        (3.41)    (0.77)        (0)        (0)       (0)      (4.18)
Technical Assistance        0.54      0.88       0.52       0.32         0       2.26
(Bank Financing)        (0.44)    (0.70)    (0.41)    (0.27)          0       (1.82)
Sub-Totals      19.69     21.74      15.46      15.15      15.01     87.05
(8.65)   (10.93)    (5.38)    (1.18)         (0)    (26.14)
Total Maintenance Budget 30.07       32.42      26.94      26.63      26.49    140.4
1/ Contributions to hire funding scheme for recurrent spares and
overhaul parts included in routine maintenance budget.
Source: Consultant and Mission Estimates
February 1979



- 42 -                          TABLE 4.2
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Asphaltic Overlay Work
Shown on Map IBRD 14151
Length       ADT        Est. Cost 1/
Road Section                                (miles)       1978        (J$000)
Morant Bay - Leith Hall                           7.03        1500           852
Port Morant - Hordley                             5.52        1000           659
South of Ocho Rios - Moneague                     7.25        2000-2400      764
Runaway Bay - Discovery Bay                       4.20        2400           443
Anchovy - Shettlewood                             4.16        2200           438
Ferris - Shettlewood                             12.62        1400         1,398
Clarendon Park - Williamsfield                    7.37        2400-3200   1,058
Green Island - Iucea                              9.33         950           983
Savanna-La-Mar-Little London                      5.47        1300           576
Grange Hill-Savanna-La-Mar                        7.32        2250           887
Mt. Diablo - Ewarton                              5.66        2750        -  404
Totals            76.33                    8,462
1/ At June 1979 prices
Source: TPOS Road Improvement and Maintenance Study,
October 1978
April 1979



- 43 -                      TABLE 4.3
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Resealing and Sealing Works
Shown on Map IBRD 14151
Length        ADT        Est. Cost
Road Section                               (miles)      1978         (J$000)
Resealing
Hordley - Port Antonio                            27.34      500-600          729
Trinitvville - Cedar Valley                        5.64        500            151
Buff Bay - Balcarres                               6.08        250            163
Gayl - Union Hill                                  4.42        400            118
St. Ann's Bay - Golden Grove                      12.89    1300-1400          344
Davis Town - Greenwich Park                        2.02        400             55
Brown's Town - Watt Town                           5.70        500            152
Bamboo - Priory                                    6.10        400            163
Sour Sop - Turn - Mears Bridge                    12.17       1000           325
Freetown - Alley - Rest                           14.90      7490-830        396
Rowe's Corner - Southfield - Malvern              23.22      200-800         619
Mile Gully - Union                                11.43      400-700          306
Siloah - Vauxhall - Lacovia                       10.59      700-800         282
Park - Mountainside                                2.21        400             59
Middlequarters - Newmarket                         8.93        600           239
Falmouth - Kinloss                                 10.54       500            280
Adelphi - Salt Marsh                                5.81        400           154
Wait-A-Bit - Lorrimers                             5.57        450           148
Cambridge - Montpellier                            4.78        750           128
Adelphi - Hampden                                  2.60        650            68
Shettlewood - Chester Castle                       2.72        600            74
Salt Spring - Moreland                             4.15        300           112
Lucea - Glasgow                                    7.85        700           210
Lucea - Bushmouth                                  9.16        300           244
Hopewell - Haughton Grove                          5.29        350           142
Negril - Little London                             9.55        900           254
Amity Cross - Georges Plain                        2.04        650            55
Galloway - Torrington                              4.72      1700            125
Glasgow - Grangehill                               2.69       1000            74
Whithorn - Newmarket                              10.78        500           288
Struie - Lamb's River                              2.89        300            78
Vanity Fair - Tavern Hill                          8.63        900           229
Totals Resealing      253.41                    6,764
Sealing
Davis Town - Greenwich Park                        1.27        400            64
Salt Spring - Moreland                             1.03        300            49
Lucea - Bushmouth                                  0.74        200            36
Hopewell - Haughten Grove                          1.03        150            49
Culloden - Caledonia                               1.85
Totals Sealing          5.92                      198
1/ At June 1979 prices.
Source: TPOS Road Improvement and Maintenance Study, October 1978
April 1979



TABLE 4.4
- 44 -
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Equipment Overhaul Program
Units to be Rehabilitated        Planned Average 1/
over 24 month period          Availability -   -
Pift      By June    By Dec.   By June    By Dec.
Unit                  Total    Month       1980        1980       1981       1981
Land Rovers                70        5           45         50         55        55
Pickups                    27        2           50         60        65         70
Flat Bed
Trucks                    50       4            50         55        55         55
Dump
Trucks                    60       4            55         60        65         70
Passenger
Cars                       6       1            50         70        75         75
Rubber Tired
Tractors                  12       1            40         50        60         70
Front End
Loaders                    6       1            65         70        75         75
Graders                     3       1            60         65        70         70
Steel Wheel
Rollers                   30       2            50         55        60         65
Crushers                    3       1            50         60        65         75
Air
Compressors                 2       1            75         75        75         75
Bitumen
Distributors              4        1            30        45         55         65
Water
Trucks                   30        2            55        60         65         70
Misc. Items               10        1            50         60        65         70
Totals              313
Averages          50         60         65        70
1/  Availability percentages include effect on fleet size resulting
from procurement of replacement equipment shown in Table 4.5.
Source: Ministry of Works and TPOS Road Improvement and
Maintenance Study, October 1978.
February 1979



- 45 -                   TABLE 4.5
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
List and Cost of Maintenance Equipment
(US$ at June 1979 prices)
Number              Cost Per             Total
Item                     of Units               Unit               Cost
Cars                             12                  8,000              96,000
Pickups - 3/4 ton                60                  7,000             420,000
Dump Trucks - 7 ton              40                 16,000             640,000
Water Trucks - 1500 gal.         24                 20,000             480,000
Steel Wheel Rollers -
10 to 12 ton                   16                 25,000             400,000
Rubber Tired Tractors            13                 18,000             234,000
Bitumen Distributors -
1000 gal.                       3                 45,000             135,000
Low Bed Trailer                   1                 18,000              18,000
Miscellaneous Items-/             -                    -               200,000
Workshop Tools                    -                                     60,000
Spare Parts (about 10%
of equipment cost)                                    -               277,000
Total            2,960,000
1/ Includes items such as mobile pumping units, lighting plants,
spreader boxes, bitumen kettles, pavement breakers, tampers, etc.
Source: TPOS Road Improvement and Maintenance Study, October 1978
February 1979



- 46 -                   TABLE 4.6
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year                                   Cumulative Disbursements
at end of Quarter
1980
December 1979                                              0.6
March 1980                                                 1.6
June 1980                                                  3.4
1981
September 1980                                             5.2
December 1980                                              7.0
March 1981                                                 8.7
June 1981                                                 10.2
1982
September 1981                                            11.5
December 1981                                             12.7
March 1982                                                13.7
June 1982                                                 14.5
1983
September 1982                                            15.2
December 1982                                             15.6
March 1983                                                16.0
1/  Assumes Loan Effective September 1979
Source: Mission Estimate
February 1979



JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs
J Cents/Mile (At June 1978 Prices)
C A R S                             B U S E S                        T R U C K S
Item             Class 1 Road 1/  Class 2 Road 2/        Class 1 Road  Class 2 Road        Class 1 Road  Class 2 Road
Running Costs 3/             12.6              16.1                  54.3           73.4               32.9           44.1
Time and Overhead
Costs 4/                   24.5              29.0                  91.4          113.3               48.1           65.4
Total                  37.1               45.1                 145.7          186.7               81.0          109.5
1/ A road with pavement surface in good condition immediately after an asphaltic overlay, with little surface
roughness and average traffic speed of 35 mph.
2/ A road with pavement surface in fair to poor condition, with considerable surface roughness and average
traffic speed of 30 mph.
3/ Running costs comprise fuel, lubricants, tires and tubes and routine maintenance cost including labor.
4/ Time and overhead costs comprise crew and passenger time, company overheads, particularly for trucks and
buses, interest and depreciation. Passenger time costs were valued at J$0.28/hour for personal business
trips and J$0.07/hour for leisure trips.
Source: T. P. O'Sullivan and Partners Feasibility Study and revised costs from consultant during appraisal.
February 1979



- 48 -                            TABLE 5.2
JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Returns on Proposed Bank Project and
Total Five-Year Program (Including Proposed Project)
Benefit Cost Ratios 1/
Proposed IBRD Project      Overall 5-Year Maintenance Program
Overlay                           11.0                              10.7
Resealing                          3.4                               2.8
Total                              7.3                               5-7
Sensitivity for 5%
Decline in Traffic
Overlay                           10.4                              10.2
Resealing                          3.3                               2.7
Total                              6.9                               5.5
Net Present Value of Benefits
(J$ Million at June 1978 Prices)
Overlay                           85.6                             115.7
Resealing                         20.2                              37.6
Total                            105.8                             153.3
Sensitivity for 5%
Decline in Traffic
Overlay                           81.2                             109.4
Resealing                         18.8                              34.7
Total                            100.0                             144.1
1/ To compare benefits with costs over the period 1980-96 for overlays and 1980-96
for resealing and discount them at 11%, the Bank's estimate of the cost of capital
for Jamaica, the consultants did the following.  A mean date of sub-project
implementation, June 1980, was chosen, at which time average sub-project roughness
was put at 140 inches/mile for overlay proposals and 175 inches/mile for resealing
proposals. The benefits were then calculated from the roughness saving achieved
by the works,and the consequent vehicle operating cost saving, which were applied to
the traffic forecast for the road sections included in the project and correspondingly,
the overall 5-year program.
Source: TPOS Road Improvement and Maintenance Study, October 1978.
March 1979



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of the Training Program
1.        Details of the training program for MOW staff, which it is proposed
to carry out under the project, are described in some detail in the Training
Program Document prepared with the help of consultants T.P. O'Sullivan and
Partners (TPOS). This document is set out in diagrammatic form on page 4 of
this annex.
2.        The program has two parts.  One element is related to supervision of
roadworks and associated technology. The other element is related to the effi-
cient operation, rehabilitation and maintenance of equipment and is intended
to help lift the availability of the fleet from 43% to 75%.
3.        The supervision-related element consists of:
(a) continuation of existing three-month in-service training courses
for works overseas;
(b) two special technology courses in contract supervision and
engineering materials;
(c) 12 one-day courses in new systems--ROMGRAM, RMCS, HIREFUND, etc.;
(d) seven courses to equip field staff for advancement and management
succession; and
(e) three seminars for contractors.
4.        All the courses in this element will be run locally in Jamaica under
the supervision of TPOS.
5.        The equipment-related element of the training program consists of:
(a) continuation of existing mechanic apprenticeship programs;
(b) continuation of local one-week equipment courses for mechanics--
the courses are led by manufacturers' representatives (five or
six courses are envisaged);
(c) a special composite overseas course for three senior technical
workshop staff; they will attend the training schools attached to
the factories which manufacture Perkins Engines, Land Rover, and
Fargo Trucks in the UK and Caterpillar Tractors in the US; and



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(d) two special courses at North Eastern Technical Institute in the
US, each course for six persons; these 12 persons will return to
Jamaica and lead two more local operators' courses, thus passing
on their knowledge and skills to 80 other operators--an operation
boot-strap exercise.
6.        This second element of the project will be supervised by the Director
of Electrical and Mechanical Services in consultation with MOW's central
personnel section. Sufficient administrative experience and know-how exist
to run this element, since a similar program was conducted for a USAID project
in 1974.
7.        It is recognized that successful completion of this project depends
upon efficient performance of equipment, satisfactory maintenance, rehabilita-
tion and repairs, and high availability. The effect of the overseas courses
on performance and morale is usually dramatic. There is need to build a strong
and motivated team to carry the project after the consultants leave. Judicious
selection of the persons to undertake overseas courses will, as in the past,
reduce the likelihood of staff loss through emigration or change of job. (MOW
has lost none of the 27 personnel trained through USAID in 1973/74.)
8.        Both elements of this training program aim at making an input at the
front line of operations. The cost of the program is US$80,000 in foreign cost
and US$18,000 in local cost, making a total of US$98,000.
May 1979



- 51 -
AN11EX 1
Page 3
Training Program Costs Related to Project in US$
Overseas    Local    Total
Project Element                     Cost       Cost      Cost     Remarks
A. Supervision of Road Works
(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)
13 weeks X $100                                       1,300
B.  Equipment Courses
(a)  Apprenticeship                          --         --
(b) Courses by Manufacturers'
Representatives                      5,000       4,000
(c)  Workshop Technology (UK)            10,000         --
(d)  Equipment Operation (US)            65,000         --
C.  Administration
Lecturers' fees, salaries and
traveling to lectures, staff
members                                              12,700
TOTAL                              80,000      18,000    98,000



Training Program
Months                          Equipment                                             Supervision
of                            Related                                              of Roadworks
Project                         Training
1            Equipment      Workshop/         Existing              Existing        Specialist        System
Operation      Equip.Repair   Apprenticeship          in Service       Courses           Courses
2             & Care        Techn logy        Program               Courses
3
4                           ____     ______12   Courses
U.K. Course                                                             1 day each
5     1st U.S.1             12 weeks-3 Persons                     1   Technology &                 Covering
Course  i            at Factory Courses;                         Contract                     Program Hire
- 6   for 10               Perkins Engines,                            Supervision                 lRMCS etc.
Persons              L.Rover, Fargo,                               1 week                                                 W
7         T_               Caterp 1lar
8    |lst Local |l
|Course  I                   I                               1 |Materials|
9                           5 Local Courses Led                        Course
by Manufacturers'                           2 weeks
10               2nd Local  factory Lecturers
ICourse                                                                  3     Seminar
for
11                                               X    I    T                                   Contractor
1. A.C. Delco lternators
12                  2nd U.S.      Cour'se          Starters, Generators   - USA
for 10 Persons             2. Toyota Land Cruiser    - Japan
13                                              3. Ford Trucks            - UK
4. Leyland Trucks         - UK                                               I
14     3rd Local                               5. Etnyre Distributor      - USA
Course                                                                                                 7 Courses of
15                                                                                                            1-2 weeks for
Advancement of      |@|
16                                                                                                            Field Staff &        41
4th Local                                                                              Management Success.
17                    0Course  l_I
18



ANNEX 2
- 53 -
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.     "Road Improvement and Maintenance Study, Stage II, Draft
Final Report" Volumes I and II T. P. O'Sullivan and
Partners, October 1978.
2.     "Road Improvement and Maintenance Study, Stage II - Road
Condition Survey" T. P. O'Sullivan and Partners,
October 1978.
3.     Miscellaneous papers and maps related to project impact
and economic evaluation.
4.     Calculations of cost estimates.
5.     Miscellaneous documents related to Equipment Replacement
and Overhaul Program.
6.     Calculation of Local Taxes.
7.     Axle Load Control Program agreed at negotiations (side letter).
8.     Terms of Reference for Consultants T. P. O'Sullivan and
Partners (UK) agreed at negotiations.
9.     Time to be spent by Consultants T. P. O'Sullivan on Training
Program.
10.    Counterpart Staffing Arrangements agreed at negotiations.
May 1979






JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS
PERMANENT
SECRETARY
CHIEF TECHNICAL
DIRECTOR
MANAGEMENT                                                                                                          DFINANCE
INFORMATION                  ~~~~PERSONNEL                       ADMINISTRATION                            DVSO
INFRMTION                              DIVISION                              DIVISION                              FINANCIALX
SYSEMS                SYSTEM                                                                                     INENL  AUI             TRNACTIO   I 
SETON ERTINCoACSN
IDIRECTORATE OF                                                                                                              DIETRT OFl
ELEC. L MECHl.                                                                                                             DRCONTORUCTION
SERVICES                                                                                                                   _                     . _
| ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                              ADMINISTRATION
UNIT                                                                                                                        UNIT
I MECHANICAL    *    WORKSHOP *SBUI OING(PLANT        HOSPITAL       ELECTRICAL/                                                     DLDING                               SPECIAL            RURAL
MECHANCL           WORKSHOP            MANENNT.                                                                                                           R DOIES &EM   YNT                    FDRROS
UJNITS                                                 MAINENANEAMCHANCALCONSTRUCIN                                                                  CMLOMNT                                FEDRROD
BRRANCH             RRANCH                                BRANCH          DESI  BRANCH                                               BRAUCTI                 WORKS           BRANCH             BRANCH
DIRECRATE OF                                                                          DIRECIORATELO                                                                DIRECTORATE OF
MAJOR PROJECT                                                                          STECHNICAL                                                                    MAINTENANCE
SERIVICES
ADMINISTRATION       CONTRACTS                   CHIEF ENGINEER    ADMINISTRATION
|   |  UNIT  ll  UNIT  0 SECRETARIAT        (MAINTENANCE)          UNIT
MAJOR ROJECT    F ANNIN         ARNS        ON      ACIETRL                CIIQUANTITY                          LANDS &            TRAFFIC
MaJOR RJCH                           I                                      NGIEERNGH          SURVEYING           SURVE YS          ENGINEERING        HDALC                   HE                 HE
BACBRNHANNUBRNH                                                          DSGRANANHBRANCH                         BRANCH              BRANCH             BAC              UEITNET           SPRNEDN
Wood Bonk - 19891






B~~~~~~ I
JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
DIRECTORATE OF MAINTENANCE
DIRECTOR
MAINTENANCE
| ACCOUNTANT i    .                  w                             CHIEF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CHIEF
i                    l                         SUP~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERINEDT             SPERINTENDENT
SYSTEMS   3 COUNTY   MECHANICAL                     Z~~~~~ARE                           ( }   AREA 5-,I
AREA1                             AREA2                              AREA3                              AREA4                               AREA5                                       AREA6                              AREA7
SENIOR                             SENIOR                             SENIOR                             SENIOR                              SENIOR                                      SENIOR                            SENIOR
SUPERINTENDENT                     SUPERINTENDENT                     SUPERINTENDENT                     SUPERINTENDENT                      SUPERINTENDENT                              SUPERINTENDENT                    SUPERINTENDENT
ST ANDREW        ST TMAS            ST MAR          PORLAND          ST CATHERINE        ST ANN         MANCHESTER        CLARENDN         WETMORELAND    ST ELIZABETH           ST JAMES         HAN VER Z       TRELAWNY 
| PARISH  l      PARISH    l       PARISH    l     PARISH     l       PARISHOR         PARISH    l       PARISH           PARISH             PARISH           PARISH            PARISH           PARISH PPARISH S  PCORPORATEAARE
| SUPERINTENDENT | | SUPERINTENDENT | | SUPERINTENDENT | | SUPERINTENDENT | | SUPER INTENDENT | | SUPERINTENDENT | | SUPERINTENDENT || SUPERINTENDENT | LSUPERINTENDENT || SUPERINTENDENT ||SUPERINTENDENT   SUPERINENDEN SUPERINTENDENT  SUPERINTE T |  -
Wodd 8Bnk -ISII






JAMAICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1979                                    1980                                     1981                                    1982
J |IF | M    Al Ml J              i IA is            M N| D  J  |I Al i  JII  8      N | F|D  A rMli J AI    O  |N |D  JFI~ AItMI             J!, I        o |NI|D
PROJECT ITEM
A. LOAN EFFECTIVITY                                                    _
B. OVERLAY WORKS (4 PKGS.)
1. Prequalification & Bidding
2. Contract Approvals & Awards
3. Construction                                                                                                                 -
4. Preparatory Work
C. SEALING & RESEALING (4 PKGS.)
1. Prequalification & Bidding
2. Contract Approvals & Awards
3. Construction                                                                        -
4. Preparatory Work
D. MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
1. Procurement of Spares & Workshop Tools                                                               _
2. Improvement of Workshops                                            _
3. Procurement of Replacement Equipment                             _                                                        _
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAININGIFinancedoUndUreLoanan899J 
World Bank - 20063






,S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.                                                                                                              mA  @.    _g _/                                                             AAWA A       ;S
'no                               _foo                                                          A                      ~      00                                "                                      f             Utt fO'AOt
-w f,_t@8A,5>,d,,   X                                                                                                    SAg/>.,.S_bRtd,,,r.
THIRD HIGHWAY MRJKCT (L-a1032JM   t--;  Ws41d>  ti 5Ey 
-  Roo   d Conotn,ntion
FIR$T MIGHWAY PROJECTgL-o40&-Jht|bmS+ed  on,gehlmr>_)_    S
?h:oiltd  E g sloy    C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0'0r
-  Co ,struction  HiBh1y.
S5nondory M,in Roods
~~~    Man Mrtt  C    A   / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAMAICA
..te  Inopana ArTo,                       ,N, s                                                                       O                                  %                                        PREVIOUS BANK HIGHWAY PROJECTS
4     Locol Arpontrs                              |NT \                                                                           :      T<                              
pt-h       riot                                                 D
- - -tlnternotrsnacl Bdoanrino                                   1tSo           B        to                                         :    :                        :                                                   '
- --  Ricero                                                                                             ,,'LO* ittai.o   W                                                      






I BR D 14151
C .        A    A o7t y _,^R  f     A 6/V  -
X Topil PM                     M ? 1   S  A   N                                      A  R E A       u  N ,                B>t Wa #'\             ,   S t8,V H. I . 0   - . .  R           R         E          YA N,
T            t > Wtzct9' 2   S         x   i\ MANDt2/L                                     <         E 5 T1    C AT [ER    N                          A NA  < L                           - _           _  
71>
Morsn oRsed o[ 'Rods |>               ,   ff   X2             
=        Morn Port fst                                         C'd         -          tt              -.                                 b      i                     .                                                                                       f4
d;  MOut fibtffd                   l            C                                                                      <       w-) t  D        S
*,     lorornosionol A'rports                                      2s                                                          R   X>o'L                                                                JA M A IC A
-  - LocalaAirporTs                                                          /          - p,2  /f                     S                   '            ~  FOURTH  HIGHWAY  P'ROJECT
-  Poop, Boundonos                                          A    N              $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f                         A       HE       NE
Coonty  Bojodorios                         9         5                                                                                      _
-   -     Io'ornos,onol  Boundorres           MIL55   :         _________'      t_
A= pd-      , Rl-er y                                                                         A LOMETRS t       E ID H5 7A   i5
rf*00                                                          sy 77 9PORR                                                                                                                     iO R
Rioro                                     0     $             0        1



