Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24069
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-44660)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
CL-MILLENNIUM SCIENCE INITIATIVE PROJECT
12/18/2002
Human and Social Development Group
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America & the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 29, 2002)
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (CLP)
1000 CLP = US$ 1.529
US$ 1.0 = 653.94 CLP
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CONICYT       Comisi6n Nacional de Investigacion Cientijica y Tecnologica
CFP           Competitive Fund Selection Process
ES            Executive Secretariat
GoC           Government of Chile
FONDAP       Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo de Areas Prioritarias
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IMU          Implementation and Management Unit
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MECESUP      Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Superior
MIDEPLAN     Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Cooperaci6n
MSI           Millennium Science Initiative
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
Ph.D          Doctor of Philosophy
PMR           Project Management Report
R&D           Research & Development
SI           Millennium Science Institute
SN           Millennium Science Nuclei
S&T          Science and Technology
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager/Director:  Ana Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Lauritz Holm-Nielsen



CHILE
CL-MILLENNIUM SCIENCE INITIATIVE (LIL)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  12
10. Additional Information                                                           14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                24
Annex 8. Status of Legal Covenants                                                   25






Project ID: P063386                                      Project Name- CL-MILLENNIUM SCIENCE
INITIATIVE (LIL)
Team Leader: Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen                     TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 18, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: CL-MILLENNIUM SCIENCE INITIATIVE (LIL) L/C/TF Number: SCL-44660
Country/Department: CHILE                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (85%); Tertiary
education (15%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/13/1999                            Effective: 09/23/1999         09/23/1999
Appraisal:  01/15/1999                               MTR: 06/30/2000           03/24/2000
Approval:  04/30/1999                             Closing: 03/31/2002          09/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency. REPUBLIC OF CHILE/MINISTRY OF PLANNING
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President.      David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Axel van Trotsenburg                     Myma L. Alexander
Sector Manager:      Marito Garcia                             Donald Winkler
Team Leader at ICR:  Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen                  Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen
ICR Primary Author:  Shashi K. Shrivastava; Michael
Crawford; Lauritz B.
Holm-Nielsen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN"Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substanfial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance. HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry.                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Dlesign, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As a learning and innovation loan, the central objective of this project was to learn to improve the sector of
science and technology (S&T) in Chile, leading to successful follow-on activities.
Specifically, the project aimed to demonstrate improved performance in a highly selected segment of
Chilean S&T system.  The project intended to help revitalize the Chilean S&T system by supporting
advanced training of human capital by world-class scientists engaged in cutting edge research. It sought to
demonstrate the effectiveness of a transparent, merit-based allocation procedure for financial support and
investigator autonomy, as a way to improve the quality and efficiency of scientific research and training.
Improved performance was expected in the areas of (i) quality of the selection process, (iii) human
resources training opportunities, (iv) international collaboration among researchers, (v) administrative
efficiency, (vi) allocation of resources, and (vii) perception of S&T policy in Chile.
The project addressed Chile's long-term goal of revitalizing the national innovation system by increasing
the country's capacity to produce, gain access to, and adapt scientific and technological knowledge - a
factor that is of critical importance to sustainable economic and social development. The project was
directly linked to the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective of upgrading Chile's
human capital with a view towards improving the country's competitiveness in the international arena.
Achieving this long term objective would be contingent upon continuation and expansion of the activities
piloted under the LIL.
The idea for the Millennium Science Initiative (MSI) in Chile, in the form of a pilot project for the
development of cutting edge scientific research through a competitive fund which adhered to high
international standard, resulted from the recommendations of an International Conference on Science and
Technology, held in Santiago in 1998. This MSI project was the first of a series of MSIs launched recently
in several countries (Chile, Venezuela, Brazil, Mexico) with World Bank assistance.
The development objectives are clear and well targeted to Chile's current economic and social conditions,
as well as its development ambitions.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the original objective.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consists of three components: (1) Management structure for the MSI; (2) Competitive fund for
scientific excellence; and (3) Network for the promotion of scientific excellence.
Project Component 1- Management Structure : (total actual cost US$ 1.1 million or 114 percent of
appraisal estimates). This component includes the: (i) Establishment and operations of a Board of
Directors, Program Committee, and Implementation and Management Unit; (ii) Technical assistance for
selection of Science Institutes and Science Nuclei; (iii) Development of a proposal to improve Chile's
institutional framework for science and technology research and training; and (iv) Carrying out of studies
to monitor and evaluate of the Project.
Proiect Component 2- Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence: (total actual cost US$ 12.5 million or
104 percent of appraisal estimates). This component consists of the funding of research projects at 1-3
Science Institutes and 5-10 Science Nuclei. The grants would finance : (i) scientific research, (ii)
expansion of doctoral and post-doctoral training programs and opportunities; and (iii) networking, outreach
-2 -



and special activities to promote scientific excellence. For a description of Science Institutes (SI) and
Science Nuclei (SN) see Annex 2 in Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No. 19130-CH. The
projects to be financed by the Fund would be carried out at SIs and SNs by Chilean scientists of
international stature performing synergistic work in one or more cutting edge fields who are able to
compete scientifically in the highest level in international arena. Expenditures to be financed by the Fund
comprise: cutting-edge scientific equipment, infrastructure rehabilitation (including laboratories),
fellowships for doctoral and post-doctoral students, and publications.
Proiect Component 3: Network for the Promotion of Scientific Excellence: (total actual cost US$ 1.3
million or 88 percent of appraisal estimates). Carrying out of networking for scientific collaboration and
outreach activities to disseminate the benefits of quality research to potential collaborators and beneficiaries
such as students, fellow researchers and/or partners from business and industry. The activities include: (i)
visits to establish formal and informal connections to international science and technology institutions; (ii)
design and delivery of advanced courses, (iii) exchange program for researchers, and graduate and post
graduate courses; and (iv) dissemination workshops.
The project components are well designed with the appropriate allocation of resources given the parameters
in which the overall investment of US$ 15 million over 2.5 years was defined.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was only one amendment to the Loan Agreement on July 2, 2001 thereby the Networking and
Outreach (Component 3) was merged with the Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence (Component 2)
in order to simplify project administration. The change was minor and did not affect either the objectives
of the project or the implementation of project activities.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry for the project is rated as highly satisfactory because: (i) the main sector issues
were identified correctly; (ii) significant stakeholder consultation was undertaken during identification and
preparation; (iii) the project was designed as an instrument that would help overcome obstacles and
positively influence key factors in the sector; (iv) the design was consistent with intemational best practice
for the sector; and (v) the project was designed flexibly and as a pilot (demonstration effect) that would
improve the conditions for larger investments. This was achieved despite the very short time frame in
which the project was prepared according to the wishes of the GoC.
The project represents a very quick but appropriate response (as a Learning phase) to a strongly felt need
of Chile and other countries of the region. In addition to the recommendation of an International Conference
of scientists, science administrators of neighboring countries, and the international community, the design
of the project is based on consultations with the main stakeholders of the S&T sector, and discussions with
Chile's foundation for technology development ("Fundaci6n Chile"). The GoC also responded well by
quickly putting the management system in place and obtaining the agreement of intemationally well known
scientists to serve on the MSI Program Committee. By the time the project became effective, in September
1999, the first selection cycle of projects was well underway and three Institutes and five Nuclei were
selected and awarded grants within two months of effectiveness.
The Bank and counterpart teams have identified well the main sector issues, using, inter alia, substantial
intemational comparative data from the region and else where in the world (see September 1998 project
identification Aide Memoire). Throughout project preparation, the project teams identified well the major
constraints facing Chilean scientists. These include: insufficient long term planning for and commitment to
high quality scientific research, inadequate support to graduate students leading to understaffed
- 3-



laboratories, and scarcity of funds for equwpment necessary for cutting edge research. Other constraints
included excessively slow and bureaucratic funding procedures, fragmentation of resources, and unevenly
applied funding criteria.
It was recognized from the outset that the time frame to effect substantive change in any S&T sector is in
the order of 10 years or more. Hence, since the gains of MSI would depend on sustained effort and would
not be expected to accrue in a linear fashion, the project rightly sought and obtained the Government's firm
commitment to sustain support for the MSI for a period of 10 years as a part of its science policy. It was
further recognized that prior to making a major investment m the sector, a pilot should be carried out to
demonstrate ("proof of concept") that major changes in the performance of S&T systems could be
leveraged with relatively modest investments implemented under international best practice procedures.
Therefore, the LIL instrument was chosen and designated as the first phase of a two phase decade long
investment program.
During preparation, the decision was made to locate the project implementation unit and the overall control
of the project in the Ministry of Planning (MIDEPLAN) rather than in the National Committee for Science
and Technology Research (Comisi6n Nacional de Investigaci6n Cientifica y Tecnol6gica - CONICYT),
the traditional government agency for science funding. This was done as a means to stimulate immediate
changes and in order not make the success of the demonstration pilot contingent upon a long and involved
process of institutional change within CONICYT. The decision was effective for the LIL. At the same
time, institutional capacity has not directly been built in CONICYT by means of the project. Moreover, the
decision led to an expansion of the mandate for MIDEPLAN, which had no previous mandate for or
experience in science funding and administration. The govenmment must now decide if the long term
objectives of the MSI are better served by keeping it at MIDEPLAN and permanently expanding that
Ministry's mandate, or transferring the MSI to CONICYT, or some combination of these alternatives.
4. Achievement of Objective aEnd Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project met its development objectives. It constituted a successful demonstration of an improved way
of supporting scientific research in a cost effective manner and in ways that strengthened Chile's National
Innovation System. The main outcomes of MSI are:
o   Science and technology is receiving increased attention by the GoC and other governments in the
region. The MSI is having important effects in Chile and beyond. Chile's exarnple has been followed
by three other countries in Latin America that have established MSIs with the cooperation of the Bank,
and several others have expressed an interest in developing their own MSI. Chile has taken the lead in
initiating cooperation with these partner countries under the auspices of the MSI program.
o   The project has established a fair, open, and merit-based selection process which have been
acknowledged and accepted by the scientific research community. In addition to assuring that the
grants went to the most qualified researchers, the established process has influenced other scientific
funding mechanisms in Chile, prompting them to confonn more closely to international best practice.
o   The project has improved the productivity of Chile's top researchers. While it is still too early to
completely assess the impact on researcher productivity (due to time lags inherent among performance
of research, training, and publication of results), strong initial signals indicate that productivity and
quality have increased due to the improved working conditions that MSI grants afforded to top
researchers.
-4 -



o Opportunities for and the quality of advanced training have increased. A growing pool of young
scientists, trained by well-recognized scientists and leaders in several disciplines is being created in
Chile. This is an important first step in reaching the critical mass of qualified human capital required
by a knowledge-based economy.
o   Severalforms of collaboration increased significantly under the project's auspices. Greater synergy
in joint work amongst scientists trained in different areas and different schools pursuing a common
objective is becoming apparent in a relatively short time. Efforts of several centers to establish closer
linkage between basic sciences and the strategic and applied sciences are visible, and linkages are being
created amongst institutions and scientists at national, regional and international level involving both
South-North and South-South cooperation. The mdependent, external reviewers of the project
particularly noted the significance of these developments.
o A monitoring and evaluation base is being built which can serve as a platform for improved S&T
policy. The project has been thoroughly monitored and evaluated (M&E) by beneficiaries, the Bank,
the Implementation and Management Unit (IMU), independent, external reviewers, and private
consulting firms. M&E activities included substantial annual reports on all grants, consolidated
reports by the Implementation Unit, and frequent Bank supervision. More importantly, M&E also
involved two visits by panels of independent expert scientists (see reports of March 2000 and March
2001 in the project file), and the establishment of comprehensive baseline performance indicators for
MSI and non-MSI researchers. This marks the first time that benchmarking for scientific productivity
has been used in Chile, and will be an important ingredient in future S&T policy discussions.
Overall, the outcomes of the MSI have allowed Chile to increase its participation in generating and
disseminating scientific knowledge.
4.2 Outputs by components.
Project Component I - Management Structure:
The outcome was the creation of a light and effective administrative structure for science funding.
Administrative expenses amounted to only 5.5 percent of total project costs. This is significantly below the
10 percent originally planned. Administrative expenses comprised the project's Board of Directors and
Program Committees including transport costs (air fares, per diems, etc.), salaries and the operational
expenses for the Executive Secretariat (ES), plus the costs of the two independent external reviews. The
percentage of administrative expenses to total project costs are within current levels for OECD countries,
especially for funding programs in the initial phases of implementation.
In terms of management effectiveness, the project established a compact management structure that is fully
operational. This structure includes the Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of Planning, a Program
Committee comprised of internationally-recognized scientists, and an Executive Secretariat staffed by
competent and respected personnel. The successful planning and implementation of a transparent
competitive funding mechanism is highly respected by scientists and is attracting a considerable number of
applicants. According to most beneficiaries interviewed, the IMU maintains very close links with the
Science Institutes and Nuclei established under the project and provides them with the necessary technical
assistance and guidance in project implementation.
The ES, in cooperation with the Bank task team have conducted regular evaluations and monitoring of the
institutions and nuclei funded under the program. A study on Baseline Data and Performance Indicators
- 5 -



was recently completed and has been of great value to the IMU for the preparation of an impact evaluation
of the research conducted over the past two years.
In cooperation with other branches of the Government, the IMU has initiated the dialogue for the follow on
phase of the project. This on-going dialogue is progressing well.
Project Component 2 - Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence:
Soon after project effectiveness, the first round of competitive funding was very efficiently completed.
Three scientific institutes and five scientific nuclei (selected from amongst 75 applicants) were established
and are operating for two years. The Science Institutes include: (i) The Millennium Institute for Advanced
Studies in Cell Biology and Biotechnology; (ii) Centro de Estudios Cientificos; and (iii) Millennium
Institute for Fundamental and Applied Biology. The Science Nuclei cover areas of (i) ecology and
biodiversity; (ii) development biology and genetic engineering; (iii) cellular and molecular neuroscience;
(iv) fine chemistry, and (v) condensed matter physics.
The LIL envisaged that the competitive grant financing process would be repeated immediately during
calendar year 2000, permitting the unsuccessful applicants and others to improve their proposals and again
seek funding. However, no call for proposals were issued during 2000 because of the several reasons.
Basically, another round competitive fund selection (CFPs) involved additional commitment of government
resources, which Congress did not wish to approve. In 2001 funds were made available and a second call
for proposals was issued. The CFP selection process was expeditiously completed in 2001 and 5 additional
nuclei were selected. The original physical targets for the Fund, comprising the establishment of 1-3
science institutes and 5-10 scientific nuclei, are fully met.
An expanded, high quality environment has been created for postgraduate training and research. Initial
indications are that the number of publications in international journals will increase as a result of MSI
research, although it is still too early to measure this impact. Over 150 key research workers including
some of the best Chilean scientists, are directly funded under the Institutes and Nuclei grants. These include
66 graduate students (32 financed fully by the MSI and 34 partially funded) and 25 post-doctoral fellows.
During project implementation, 47 PhD. diplomas were granted to the financed graduate students. An
additional 252 graduate and undergraduate students funded from other sources, are associated with the
MSI as researchers. This outcome makes the MSI Institutes and Nuclei by far the most productive source
of advanced scientific training in Chile (see section 4.3).
Several outstanding intemational network and outreach activities have also taken place, including
workshops, seminars, visiting professors, intemational symposia and training for secondary school
teachers. These activities aimed at audience ranging from top intemational scientists, to students at the
post-Doctoral, Doctoral, Masters, undergraduate, and secondary levels. "See Bi-annual Project Reports in
the Project file).
Project Component 3 - Network for the Promotion of Scientific Excellence:
The main outputs of networking activities include: (i) Cooperation amnongst MSI institutions for joint
research programs and training programs; (ii) Dozens of international courses and advanced intemational
seminars held; (iii) Participation of MSI scientists in regional and intemational networks; (iv) Students
from neighboring countries admitted in research and training programs funded under MSI; and (v)
Outreach programs including successful initiatives in some disciplines at secondary education level.
- 6 -



The MSI rules ensured that funds for networking and outreach were not fungible. All Institutes and Nuclei
were required to conduct these activities, and no networking and outreach funds could by used for research
purposes (e.g. purchase of additional equipment). Researchers credited this policy of non-fungibility with
stimulating a significant increase in networking and especially outreach activities. Scientists felt that
previously outreach had always been a second priority and an unfunded mandate. The MSI emphasis
catalyzed numerous activities which the researchers reported to be highly worthwhile.
In addition, Chile has led the way in expanding regional cooperation under the auspices of the MSI,
hosting the first meeting of representatives of the four Latin American countries that have MSI programs in
collaboration with the Bank (Chile, Venezuela, Brazil, and Mexico). Colombia is considering to join the
group.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
The LIL has been highly cost effective (see Annex 3). First, training opportunities for students have
increased significantly. Eight percent of Chilean senior scientist and researchers are funded under the MSI
(about 160 out of 2000) and are now responsible for training of close to 50 percent of the doctoral students
in science and engineering. Half of these training opportunities are newly created with funds from the MSI
grants. In addition, it is reasonable to expect, given the highly selective nature of the grants, that the
students connected to MSI-funded research are receiving the highest quality training in Chile. These two
factors combined have caused a jump in the efficiency of doctoral training in Chile.
Another source of improved cost-effectiveness is the light administrative structure that was piloted under
the MSI. The cost of this structure (5.5 percent of total project cost) is in line with international good
practice. It was also noted that the same administrative structure is capable of handling a much larger
volume of grants without additional costs, so it is likely to become even more efficient as the project
expands.
Finally, several sources of potential economic benefits were identified. These and others should be
monitored so that, at a future date, formal cost-benefit analysis can be conducted. Most notable are the 6
patent applications have been filed by MSI grantees. These cover a range of industrial and commercial
applications, including improvement of medical technologies (MRI processes for CAT scans),
bioremediation for environmental pollution (bacteriological removal of heavy-metal contamination); and
aquaculture (processes for characterizing viruses affecting commercially-cultivated salmon). These and
other research outputs may provide direct economic benefits to Chile's economy in the future, beyond the
direct cost-efficiency savings that are presently accruing.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
It is too early to assess the full impact of the project. However, there are positive indications that the LIL
has created the desired pressures on scientists and managers to work as teams and perform their best,
putting the limited resources to optimum use. If the project proceeds as planned to a second, longer and
larger investment phase, this is likely to lead to a program of major reforms across the system.
However, it must be noted that the institutional capacity created by the project is within MIDEPLAN, as
an alternative to the existing funding windows of CONICYT, Chile's traditional science funding agency.
- 7-



For the future, stakeholders report two issues that will be crucial to consolidating the institutional gains of
the MSI. First, the MSI must maintain its independence as a program as this has proven a sine qua non
condition of its success. Second, policies governing the MSI's relation to other science funding programs
(such as the ability and desirability of researchers to hold simultaneous grants) should be rationalized and
coordinated.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A risk that the MSI program would encounter difficulties due to intemal tensions within the host
institutions (universities and research centers where the grantees work) did not materialize. It was thought
for instance, that some senior management at universities might not provide the necessary institutional
collaboration to MSI grantees. However, the rigorous adherence of the ES to the transparent funding
procedures helped create a situation in which institutions viewed hosting an MSI grantee as positive.
Reviews by the independent panel found that by the second year of the program, attitudes of resistance had
largely changed to acceptance as hosting institutions came to view the existence of the MSI as a factor that
could bring benefits.
Similarly, the risk that the MSI's focus on excellence would provoke resistance from the S&T community
at large, or that it would be viewed as a unfair diversion of resources toward the elite and away from the
average researcher has not materialized. There is, however, concem in the S&T conumunity about
similarities in the profile of grantees who compete for MSI and for grant under National Fund for
Development of Priority Areas (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo de Areas Prioritarias - FONDAP),
CONICYT's highest level research grant program. There were situations in which grantees have won
awards in both competitions and have had to renounce one of the grants. The ES is working with
CONICYT to assure that no overlap occurs.
The reaction of the younger members of the Chilean S&T community to the MSI program has been
overwhelmingly positive. The independent review panel noted the warm and enthusiastic response of
students at all levels, as well as post-docs, to the opportunities that the MSI have afforded.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government cont-ol:
The government has given strong positive support to the MSI. The government has honored its
commitments to provide counterpart funding and has exceeded those commitments by taking on multi-year
contracts valued at additional 120 percent of the amount originally planned. All indications are that
government will continue to meet these future obligations. The first round of awards committed over US$
23 million to 3 institutes and five nuclei, exceeding the original plan by more than US$ 8 million. Although
during 2000 the budget allocation from the government to the project was substantially lower than had been
estimated, this occurred not only because the Chilean Congress reduced by 20 percent the amount of funds
authorized for that year, but also because Parliament did not authorize the second call for proposals
contemplated during year 2000. This budget reduction and delay had minor impact, as funds were made
fully available the following year, and the five additional nuclei were contracted. The delay has not
prevented the MSI from reaching its goals.
The government has not promoted the MSI sufficiently among potential private sector partners, as was the
stated intention of the project. In fact, the MSI contains no mechanisms or incentives that specifically
address the concerns and interests of the private sector in research. The second phase of investments in the
MSI should devise specific incentives for authentic private sector collaboration.
-8 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to inrplementrng agency control:
The IMU has properly organized and conducted open competitions for grant awards following best practice
at the international levels. However, the appropriate number of external written peer reviews of the
proposals in these competitions was not reached by the program committee and not all proposals received a
proper written evaluation.
The IMU conducted the second round of competition for nuclei in a timely manner in 2001, once the funds
were authorized by the Parliament. Also, the IMU put substantial effort into informing Members of
Congress and Ministry of Finance officials about to the nature and benefits of the MSI program, thereby
minimizing potential delays or reductions in project funding.
The IMU assured the timely compliance of grantees with their obligations to provide written annual
reports. This especially helped ensure the quality of the independent reviews, as the reviewers had these
reports m advance of their site visits in Chile.  This is indicative of the IMU's overall compliance in
producing monitoring and evaluation data and reports required by the project.
The IMU has received praise from the Chilean scientific community for communicating rapidly and openly
with all stakeholders. It established an informative website and immediately posted key documents, such as
the reports of the independent review panels. These actions helped consolidate the image of the program as
transparent and built confidence more generally.
With respect to financial management, the Project Management Reporting (PMR) system was not
functional within the agreed timeframe due to problems with the system and the consultancy. Substantial
delays were encountered.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of LIL was estimated at US$15 million, including the IBRD loan of US$ 5 million and the
Government counterpart funding of US$10 million. However, the LIL is part of a longer term program of
investments and, given the multi-year nature of the research grants, the total obligations incurred with the 3
Institutes and 10 Nuclei ascend to US$ 27 million during the 2000-2004 period. At the original closing
date of December 31, 2001 total loan disbursements amounted to US$4.6 million. To permit the full
disbursement of the Loan, the Bank and the Government agreed to extend the Loan closing date to
September 30, 2002, at whlch date the loan was fully disbursed. It is anticipated that the government will
meet all existing obligations to MSI grantees in upcoming years. The Government has requested additional
World Bank financing for the second phase of the MSI investment program.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Bank and the Borrower have agreed on transition arrangements for the project future operations which
are reflected in the following performnance indicators:
o   The MSI program was conceived from the outset as the forerunner of a decade-long investment
program. The LIL was chosen for the first phase to provide the "proof of concept" that targeted
investments in high quality science research could substantially improve the performance of the
national S&T system.
o The Government was already convinced during the preparation of the LIL that a follow on operation
would be appropriate and necessary in order to reap the benefits of the initial investment. To this end,
the Govemnment has requested continued World Bank collaboration in the second phase of investments.
-9-



o   The Government has demonstrated its commitment to the project by (i) providing two-thirds of total
project resources as counterpart funds and (ii) taking on additional obligations that exceed the its
anticipated contribution to the LL. The Government is coimmitted to continuing and expanding the
program to include major refonns in other areas of the S&T system.
O   The MSI program has supported excellence in highly selected institutions and scientists. These are
now showing signs of delivering the expected mediun term benefits. Consolidation of these benefits
requires continued funding under the improved conditions that the MSI program has instituted.
O   The networking activities of the MSI have created new and strong linkages in the scientific community,
facilitating collaboration and decreasing the isolation of Chile's researchers. The effects of these
expanded linkages are likely to multiply in the future.
o   The high level of acceptance of the MSI and the enthusiasm of the S&T community with it, have made
conditions favorable for more far reaching reforms and investment in the sector.
o   As the country that launched the MSI, Chile has taken a leadership role in the region to promote
collaboration among regional colleagues that also have MSI programs (Venezuela, Brazil, and
Mexico). The visibility and enthusiasm for these collaborations provide strong positive incentive for
Chile to continue the MSI into its next phase.
o   There is a growing demand from students from other countries to come to Chile for their graduate
work. This includes students from OECD countries (France, Germany, the United States) as well as
neighboring countries (Peru, Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The MSI is expected to move on to a second investment phase. See paragraph 6.1 above.
7. Banlk and Borrower Performance
Bawk
7.1 Lending:
The project was well prepared in a short time with extensive consultations and stakeholder discussions.
The preparation was supported at the highest levels both in Chile and within the Bank. The result was a
project that responded to the Govemrnent's felt need to increase investments in the elements of knowledge
economy for the country.
7.2 Supervision:
The Supervision of the project has been excellent, using the best combination of Bank specialists and
intemational experts. This is evident from, inter alia, the existence of two in-depth reviews by independent
review panels conduct during the relatively short implementation period of project implementation.
Throughout project's implementation, the Bank has responded quickly and positively to requests from the
Govemment, and has built close cooperation with govemrnent counterparts. In addition, supervision was
time- and cost-effective because it was combined with supervision of another project in the higher
education sector (the Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Superior - MECESUP).
Also, throughout implementation the Bank team kept a focus on the goal of systemic reforms, and
capitalized on the success of the MSI for the S&T system as a whole. However, during supervision more
attention could have been given to the collection of baseline data for monitoring and evaluation. As of
- 1 0 -



March 2002 the indicator table shows excellent performance of the project. (See Annex 1).
The Bank team was instrumental in facilitated intemational cooperation and sharing of experiences with
other countrnes in the region that have or are considering MSI programs (Brazil, Venezuela, Mexico,
Colombia and Argentina).
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Highly Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower had the highest level of political commitment to the project and conducted extensive
consultations during project preparation. As a result, it was possible to prepare and begin implementation
on a short time schedule.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government has been highly supportive throughout implementation. Further, the government has
demonstrated its commitment to support major reforms in the S&T system. Such a commitment is
considered to be essential for any follow on phase of investment.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency (the IMU) has been highly satisfactory. The agency has
facilitated two extemal independent reviews, in March 2000 and March 2001, using groups of excellent
scientists who were quite demanding in their interviews, requests for evidence and documentation. The
agency's effectiveness and cooperation with grantees has been repeatedly acknowledged by the review
panels.
The IMU conducted the second round of competition for nuclei in a timely manner in 2001, once the fumds
were authorized by the Parliament. Also, the IMU put substantial effort into informing Members of
Congress and Ministry of Finance officials as to the nature and benefits of the MSI program, thereby
minimizing potential delays or reductions in project funding.
The IMU assured the timely compliance by grantees with their obligations to provide written annual
reports. This was especially helpful to ensure the quality of the independent reviews, as the reviewers had
these reports in advance of their site visits in Chile. This is indicative of the IMU's overall compliance in
producing monitoring and evaluation data and reports that the project required.
Procurement was carried out at the level of the Institutes and Nuclei and the IMU assured that it was
conducted according to Bank guidelines.
In order to maintain a system of complete transparency, the IMU developed a MSI-website in which all
pertinent information was made available (see www.mideplan.cl\milenio).
7.7 Overall Borrower performnance'
Highly Satisfactory.



8. Lessons Learned
Five major lessons learnt from this LIL are:
o   Demonstration of best practice for supporting the best. Even limited investment, distributed based
on transparent and objective selection procedures, has a high impact on performance and productivity
of an S&T system.
o   Effective use of investments. Autonomy in spending resources and diminished bureaucratic burdens
improve the effectiveness of mvestment m advanced scientific research. However, it has been observed
that access in Chile to state-of-the-art scientific equipment is not keeping up with growing demand.
o   Xmproved performance of the elite scientists. Chile has the conditions for catching-up in terms of
human capital formation by rapidly expanding further training opportunities for the most advanced
students. The quality of training can be improved with incremental investments that allow the best
senior researchers to devote themselves full time to their professional responsibilities.
o   Cohesive Government perfonmance is a key element to project success.    Transparency in
comnmunication between Government players, the continuity in funding and the coherence of science,
technology and innovation policy are of critical importance for the performance of the National
Innovation System.
o   Favorable entry conditions contribute to successful project outcomes. Well defined roles of key
stakeholders had a positive impact on the S&T system beyond direct cost-efficiency of the investment.
For this benefit to be achieved, it is particularly important to ensure: (i) harmony between Government
priorities and sector policies and project design; (ii) involvement of beneficiaries in program design and
implementation, and (iii) recognition and autonomy of research teams and scientific leadership.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower / Implementing Agency
The following comments have been prepared by the MSI's Executive Secretariat (ES).
The Implementing Agency of the MSI Program agrees in general terms with all that has been written by the
World Bank in this Implementation Completion Report, and it seems reasonable that the report be publicly
available.
The report qualifies the Bank performance as "satisfactory" (S); the opinion of the ES is the following: in
view of the high level of project management and the high technical and scientific quality of the economists
and science advisors of the Bank, the institution's performance should be conceived as highly satisfactory
(HS).
The MSI as a competitive fund for scientific research has developed several features seen for the first time
in Chile: direct delivery of funds to researchers rather than to institutions; absence of defined priority areas
of research to be funded; a Program Committee comprised entirely by distinguished foreign scientists;
- 12 -



feasibility of formation of independent science institutes; compulsory development of activities for outreach
and networking by Institutes and Nuclei; calls for proposals following a two stage procedure with
preliminary and full proposals, and minimization of bureaucracy. Several of these properties have inspired
other national competitive funds and have been considered by the MSI programs established in Mexico and
Venezuela.
The MSI program appears highly coherent with the national policies in science and technology, at a stage
when government decisions have been taken to increase the investment in the sector and to search for more
efficient and productive modalities for the use of funds.
A significant number of proposals have applied in the bidding for projects (79 and 60 proposals in the 1999
and 2002 competitions, respectively) revealing a clear interest of the scientific community to be funded by
the MSI program.
The selection process carried out by the Program Committee and resolved by the Board of Directors has
been extemally recognized to have awarded the best groups of scientists in Chile. Towards the end of the
Learning and Innovation Loan, the 3 Institutes and 10 Nuclei comprise around 200 researchers including an
important part of the best national scientists, 3 National Science Awards, 2 out of the 3 local members of
the USA Academy of Sciences, the 3 national awardees in 2001 by the Howard Hughes Foundation and 15
past Science Presidential Chair scientists.
The external evaluations reveal important advances of Institutes and Nuclei particularly in the fields of
research, formation of young scientists and network and outreach activities. Among these, three major
world discoveries have been reported by three of the research centers so far, vis. The genome decoding of a
harmful salmon bacteria - second in Latin America after Brazil; the development of physical
instrumentation to validate medical scanner essays spoiled by patient's movements; and the first transgenic
mice reared with gene modifications for advancement m teeth health and restoration.
Concerning patenting of discoveries and inventions, a field little developed in Chile, Institutes and Nuclei
need to leam and proceed in registration of their innovations.
One of the centers (Institute for Advanced Studies in Cell Biology and Biotechnology, CBB) established a
external intemational Board of Scientific Advisors. In view of the interesting and relevant recommendations
raised by such committee, it appears useful to adopt the idea as a general policy for the Science Institutes.
The funds allocated with minor restrictions to Institutes and Nuclei have been properly used and the nature
of the MSI program has been well appreciated by the awarded scientists. Two letters signed by the MSI
scientists were sent to the Minister of MIDEPLAN and Chairman of the Board of Directors, highlighting
the agile, flexible and modem means in which the program has been managed. An article describing the
program's virtues was published in 2001 by Dr. M. Rosemblatt, deputy director of a Science Institute
(available at www.mideplan.cl/milenio).
Further, the relevance of science and technology in the economic, social and cultural development of
countries, associated with the implementation of the MSI program in Chile, was published by senator
Gabnel Valdes through the Chilean Parliament (available at www.mideplan.cllmilenio).
The academic and research institutions, particularly universities, have been strengthened with the
development of the MSI centers of excellence as part of them. Furthermore, to some extent the program has
contributed to decentralization of national research and academic activities: 41% of the total funds have
- 13 -



been allocated to groups outside the Metropolitan Region. Some regions have reacted positively to such
stimuli providing centers with fresh financial resources and buildings.
Since its beginning, the MSI has established links with the Programa de Mejoramiento de la Equidad y la
Calidad de la Educaci6n Superior of the Ministry of Education, through exchange of documents,
experiences and information on postgraduate students partially financed through the World Bank. With the
Comisi6n Nacional de Investigaci6n Cientifica y Tecnol6gica (CONICYT) close links have been
established concerning information on scientists participating in the project proposals, the compatibility for
involvement of researchers in different competitive funds and exchange of experiences between funding
programs.
The participation of the private sector in national research and development and the connection between
scientists and the industry in Chile are weak. A country's effort to change this situation is needed, with
participation of the government, industry and the academic and scientific community, and it is believed that
the MSI should play an important role through connections with the private sector, stimulating the
insertion of scientists in the industry and fostering joint ventures.
The Board of Directors has met on two occasions per year, discussing and resolving key aspects of the
program's performance. Among this, the Board has supported the government's decision to invite the
World Bank to study a second phase for the continuation of the MSI program under a new loan agreement
with the Bank. On the other hand, the Board has stressed its concern in that the MSI needs to have
sufficient financial resources, and that the funds for the Science Institutes and Nuclei need to be secured
and projected in a time horizon according to a defined plan.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional lUnformation
Equity: The Millennium Science Initiative builds on the Chilean higher education system. Equity
considerations follow directly from the underlying system. There are no specific inequities in Chile's
advanced research system. However Chile's higher education system can further improved. There is still
an uneven concentration of enrolment in the top income quintile (65 percent), while the two lowest quintiles
merely reached 25.6 percent in year 2000. Gender equity has largely been achieved.
Enrolment per Type of Institution and Gender for year 2000
Institution     Enrolled              Men                       Women
2000      Graduates   Degree Holders  Graduates  Degree Holders
U. del Consejo R.        138 26        6 87          10 90        6 205          10 443
U. Privadas               49 98        4 371          3 485       4 1            3 46
Institutos P.             38076        3 2            2 7191      2 52           3 24
Centros de F.T.    |      83 2451        n               n           n             n.
Total              |     309 571      14 481         17111       12873           1715
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Area! Theme       Indicator: Goal        Indicator: Actual  Variation Data Source
from
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   G oal.  __ _ ___o a
Selection   Majority of surveyed     MSI confirmed as a     No       Reports of
Process     scientists (winners and  credible and fair funding  substantia Independent
losers) rank MSI as fairest  source             1 variatio Expert Panels
funding source
Administrativ Grant Processing time 50  Grants processed within 60 None  IMU, grant
e           percent faster than other  days                           recipients
research funding institutions
Efficiency
Concentratio Grants within 33 percent of Annual Grants average size None  1MU;
n of        OECD average for         of US$ 1.3 million               Independent
Resources for corresponding programs  (Institutes) and                Expert Panel;
Research                             US$300,000 (Nuclei)              Bank
consistent with OECD             Supervision
l___________                         averages                        Visits.
Perception  Surveyed Scientists perceive Scientist report improved  Exceeded IMU;
Regarding   positive change in working  working conditions and  Original Independent
Stagnation  conditions and career    career possibilities.   Goal     Expert Panel;
of S&T      possibilities            Repatriation of researchers      Bank
Policy                               apparently is increasing         Supervision
l_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I                             V isits
Collaboration 20 percent increase in the  At least 50 percent  2.5 times Grantees
with        number of collaborations,  increase in collaborations; above  Annual
International accompanied by improved  Reported duration and  original  Reports: IMU
Scientists  duration and quality     quality rising          goal     data
Human       50 percent increase in PhD's 50 percent increase in  Achieved Grantees
Capital     and Post-docs trained by  PhD's and Post-docs             Annual
Training    MSI-funded researchers   trained by MSI-funded            Reports: IMU
researchers                      data
Promotion of 12 doctoral students or  18 doctoral students or  Exceeded
Regional    post-docs from neighboring post-docs from        Original
Network of  countries trained under MSI neighboring countries  Goal by
Scientific  fellowships              trained under MSI       50%
Excellence                          Ifellowships_                          _
-15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost b Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
J   y  mp  >       q               .^. D   S . A~~~~~~~~uelILatss  Percentage of
. =l jet Cozs lt  C nmaont                 S$ ~.iiIon  -,US$ million
1. Management Structure for the Millennium Science       1.00             1.14             114
Initiative
2. Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence            12.00           12.49             104
3. Network for the promotion of Scientific Excellence     1.50            1.32              88
Total Baseline Cost                                      14.50           14.95
Physical Contingencies                                  0.45
Total Project Costs                14.95           14.95
Front-end fee        0.05             0.05            1.00
Total Financing Required                15.00            15.00
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Component             Ap>rQnl 1stae -          -         .
BS", G.__           Co'Fi.    DRX       Goq..     CoU.   Bank. Govt.   CoF.
1. Management Structure  0.50      0.50               0.36       0.80              72.0   160.0
for the Millennium Science
Initiative
2. Competitive Fund for  3.48      8.53                3.95      8.54              113.5  100.1
Scientific Excetlence
3. Network for the       0.75      0.75                0.64      0.66              85.3   88.0
promotion of Scientific
Excellence
Physical and Price       0.23      0.23                0.00      0.00              0.0     0.0
Contigencies
Front-end fee            0.05      0.00                0.05      0.00              100.0  0.0
Total Financing Required  5.00    10.00                5.00      10.00             100.0  100.0



Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Category                                 Amount of the Loan Allocated    % of Expenditures to be Financed
(Expressed in Dollars)                  _   _
(1) Grants for Research Sub-projects     3,945,000                       50% of the amounts disbursed under each
Grant Agreement
(IA) Grants under part B of the project  460,000
(2) Goods for Parts B and C of the Project  5,000                        50%
(3) Consultants' services and training for  290,000                      50%
Parts B and C of the Project
(4) Operating Expenditures               250,000                         50%
(5) Fee                                  50,000                          Amount due under Section 2.04 of the Loan
.___ ___.__ ___ _.____ __.___ _ _ _ __ . _  . A greem ent
TOTAL                                    5,000,000
- 17 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic analyses consistently show high social and econornic rates of return to research and development
(R&D) and innovation. Recent literature reviews have analyzed over 400 studies from industry (OECD,
2000) and agriculture (Pardey and Beintema, 2001). The vast majority of studies found positive, high rates
of return on investments. However, R&D is not fundamental research and the benefits of fundamental
research are more difficult to measure. The most common methodologies usually measure either (i) the
impact of publications and citations resulting from the research or (ii) the economic value of outputs of
research, in terms of production function analysis or social rates of return. However, the best available
methodologies are often unable to completely measure the outputs from fundamental research (Popper,
1995) which may include:
o   Training new scientific and technical workers;
o   Enriched expertise and experience of current researchers;
o   Development of "schools" of researchers who represent an informal community focused on a
particular system;
o Exploration of new experimental designs, instrumentation, and research protocols;
o   Increased numbers of "guesses" about the nature of the system being explored;
o   Lowering the notional price of an "option" on a prospective technological application which may
or may not have some value in the future and for which the basic research finding provides an
input;
o   Negative results which are important in more effectively directing subsequent efforts which may
then lead to positive results; and
o   Intangible benefits conferred on society and the public imagination by the search itself, and/or its
contribution to a culture of science that will facilitate future discoveries.
Some of these outputs are not amenable to empirical testing, or are only amenable to certain forms of
qualitative assessments. In addition, time frames for the appearance of output from fundamental research
are idiosyncratic and non-linear. Important findings from fundamental research have remained unused for
decades until being "discovered" by happenstance. Even when results are utilized immediately after
publication, time horizons for the development of applications can run 10 years or more.
For these reasons, and consistent with the guidelines for LILs, no formal rate of return analysis was
undertaken for the project. Instead, categories were identified which could serve as indicators of the
cost-effectiveness of research. In addition, research outputs were to be monitored for their future potential
to provide economic returns.
With respect to cost-effectiveness, the project appears to have catalyzed significant savings. First, training
opportunities for students have increased significantly. Best estimates are that they have doubled. The
small percentage of Chilean senior scientist and researchers who are funded under the MSI represent fewer
than 8 percent of all researchers in Chile (about 160 out of 2000), but they are responsible for training
close to 50 percent of the doctoral students in science and engineering. Half of these training opportunities
are newly created with funds from the MSI grants. In addition, it is reasonable to expect, given the highly
selective nature of the grants, that the students connected to MSI-funded research are receiving the highest
quality training in Chile. These two factors combined have caused a jump in the efficiency of doctoral
training in Chile.
Another source of improved cost-effectiveness is the light administrative structure that was piloted under
the MSI. The cost of this structure (5.5 percent of total project cost) was found to be in line with
- 18 -



international good practice. It was also noted that the same administrative structure is capable of handling
a much larger volume of grants without additional costs, so it is likely to become even more efficient as the
project expands.
Finally, several sources of potential economic benefits were identified. These and others should be
monitored so that, at a future date, formal cost-benefit analysis can be conducted. Most notable are the 6
patent applications that have been filed by MSI grantees. These cover a range of industrial and commercial
applications, including improvement of medical technologies (MRI processes for CAT scans),
bioremediation for environmental pollution (bacteriological removal of heavy-metal contamination); and
aquaculture (processes for characterizing viruses affecting commercially-cultivated salmon). These and
other research outputs may provide direct economic benefits to Chile's economy in the future, beyond the
cost-efficiency saving that are presently accruing.
- 19 -



Annex 4. lBanlk 1Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Nov/1998                    4    Team Leader, I S&T Policy
Specialist, I S&T Management
Specialist, I Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
Jan/1999                    7    Team Leader, I S&T Policy
Specialist, I S&T
Management Specialist,
I Procurement Specialist, 3
Consultants
March/l999                  6    Team Leader, IS&T Policy
Specialist, I S&T Management
Specialist, IProcurement
Specialist, IFMS, I Lawyer
Supervision
August/1999                  5   Team Leader, I S&T                S             S
Management Specialist, I
Consultant, IProcurement
Specialist, IFMS,
March-April/2000             4   Team leader, I S&T                S             S
Management Specialist, S&T
Specialist-consultant,
I Procurement Specialist, I FMS,
Aug-Sept/2000                3   Team Leader, S&T Specialist-      S             S
Consultatnt, I FMS
Jan/ 2001                    3   Team Leader, I Education           S            HS
Economist, I Procurement
Specialist
July/2001                    4   Team Leader, S&T Specialist-      HS            HS
consultant, I Procurement
Specialist, I S&T Management
Specialist-consultant
1CR
March/2002                  7    Team Leader, I Education          HS            HS
Specialist, 1 S&T Specialist,
I S&T Policy Specialist, I
Procurement Specialist, I
FMS, I Consultant
-20 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Prbject Cycle  i               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                10                      32.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                    22                       70.32
Supervision                              46                      139.32
ICR                                       16                       61.4
Total                                    94                      243.04
-21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                       O H OSUOM      O N   O A
FSector Policies                      O H OSUOM O N        O NA
Z Physical                            O H  OSUOM     O N   O NA
Z Financial                           O H  OSUOM     O N O NA
F Institutional Development           0 H O SU O M O N 0 NA
0 Environmental                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
IPoverty Reduction              O H OSUOM       O N  O NA
SGender                         OH OSUOM ON ONA
Other (Please specify)         OH OSUOM        ON   O NA
Team building
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
El Public sector management           0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
l Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       O N  O NA
-22-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
 Lending                                         OHS OS       Ou    OHU
3 Supervision                                     OHS OS       OU    O HU
Z Overall                                         OHS Os       O u   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
 Preparation                                     OHS OS       O u   O HU
 Government implementation performance           O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance               O HS O s     O U   0 HU
0 Overall                                         OHS OS       OU    OHU
-23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Banda, E., Brennan, M., Crasemann, B., "Mid-term external evaluation mission in Chile, March 2000"
April 2000.
Banda, E., Cody, M., Luxoro, M. Onuchic, J., Oro, L., "External evaluation of the MSI Program" (2001).
INVERTECT IGT "Performance Indicator Report" (2001).
INVPROJECT (Argentina) "Project Management Report" (1999-2001).
MSI Implementation Management Unit "Bi annual Report (1999/2000)" (2000).
MSI Inplementation Management Unit "Elements, Facts, and Data for the Inplementation Completion
Report" (January 2002).
OECD "Science, Technology, and Industry Outlook 2000" OECD, Paris, 2001.
Pardey, P. G., and Beintema, N.M., "Slow Magic: Agricultural R&D a Century After Mendel" IFPRI
Food Policy Report, International Food Policy Research Institute, Washington, October 2001.
Popper, S. W., "Economic Approaches to Measuring the Performance and Benefits of Fundamental
Science" RAND, Critical Technologies Institute, Washington, 1995.
Rosemblatt, M., "El primer cumpleafios de la Iniciativa Cientifica Milenio" Revista Bioplanet, Ano 2, N
10 - Marzo/Abril 2001, p. 24-25.
Valdes, G., "La ciencia en Chile y el Programa Milenio" Repuiblica de Chile, Diario de Sesiones del
Senado, Legislatura 343a extraordinaria, Sesi6n 5a, 17 de Octubre de 2000.
- 24 -



Additional Annex 8. Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant   Covenant Status  Original  Revised      Description of Covenant
Class                    Fulfill Date  Fulfill
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   D ate
2.03           10          Partially complied 03/31/2002 9/30/200 Closing Date for the Project
with                       2
3.01 (b)       2           Partially complied 09/23/1999 7/2/2001 Operation of the Competitive Fund
_         _      ~~~      ~~with        ..      
3.03 (a)       5           Complied with                 .     Project overall oversight
3.04 (b)       10          Complied with   06/30/2000          Monitoring and evaluation of the
... ...... .. ....project
3.04 (c) (ii)  10          Complied with   06/30/2000          Selection procedures of Beneficiaries
3.05           10          Complied with   09/23/1999          Adoption of the Operational Manual
to the satisfaction of the Bank
3.06           10          Complied with   09/30/2002 3/31/200 Plan for future operations of the
3        Project
4.01 (b) (ii)  1           Complied with   05/15/2000          Financial Audit of the Project
4.02 (b)       I           Complied with   05/15/2000          Presentation of Project Management
Report
4.03           1           Complied with                       Audit of Procurement of Goods,
Works and Services
5.01           10          Complied with   09/23/1999          Effectiveness conditions for the Loan
-25 -



-26 -



