Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4466-CH
Loan Agreement
(Millennium Science Initiative Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 22, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4466-CH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
Page  2
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution 
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under 
the 
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any university, science and/or technology institute 
or other legal entity or an individual engaged in scientific research and operating in 
the Borrower’s territory which is selected, pursuant to the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, to receive grants under the Competitive Fund (as defined below);  
(b)
“Competitive Fund” means the fund referred to in Part A of the Project; 
(c)
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this agreement; 
(d)
“Implementation and Management Unit” or “IMU” means the unit established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s decree No. 010 dated February 26, 1999 and referred to in 
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(e)
“MIDEPLAN” means Ministerio de Planificación y Cooperación, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Cooperation;
(f)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
(g)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter 
dated March 19, 1999 from the Borrower to the Bank; 
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Research Subproject” means a scientific research and/or training project 
to be carried out by a Beneficiary during a term of two to ten years which is eligible 
for financing in its initial stages by the Competitive Fund in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million Dollars ($5,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Borrower’s Central Bank or in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including in the event the 
account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollar 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  4
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MIDEPLAN and with the 
assistance of the Beneficiaries in respect of Part A of the Project, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
educational, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of Part A of the Project, through 
MIDEPLAN, enter into agreements with each Beneficiary, under terms and conditions 
substantially similar to those of the model form contained in the Operational Manual 
(the Grant Agreements), such agreements to provide for: (i) the transfer by the 
Borrower to such Beneficiary, on a grant basis, of the funds required by such 
Beneficiary to carry out a Research Subproject; and (ii) the obligation of such 
Beneficiary to carry out such Research Subproject as provided in the Operational 
Manual.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) establish; (ii) not later than two 
months after the Effectiveness Date, fully staff; and (iii) thereafter, during the 
execution of the Project, maintain, a board of directors and program committee 
responsible for Project overall oversight and the selection of Beneficiaries and 
approval of Research Subprojects, such board and program committee to have a structure 
and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to have qualified members in adequate 
numbers as required to carry out their responsibilities. 
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain the Implementation and Management Unit with a 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, with qualified staff in adequate 
numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30 each year, commencing June 30, 2000, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank: (i) by August 30 each year, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section; and 
(ii) by June 30, 2000, in addition to the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, the effectiveness of the selection procedures for Beneficiaries, the status 
of the research activities being carried out under Research Subprojects, and any 
bottlenecks in the implementation of such research; and 
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
Page  5
operational manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), said manual to 
include, inter alia: 
(a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation, of the 
Project (including the procurement and financial requirements thereof); 
(b)
criteria for selection of Beneficiaries and Research Subprojects; 
(c)
requirements for implementation of Research Subprojects, including 
standards, satisfactory to the Bank, for environmentally sound laboratory practices 
and disposal of hazardous materials; and 
(d)
model forms for the Grant Agreements.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
1999, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: (i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and 
applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the six-month period following the period covered by said report; (ii) (A) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and (iii) sets forth the status of 
procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of 
this Section, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the procurement of goods, works and services carried out under the 
Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, biannually, or annually if the 
Bank shall so agree, audited, by private auditors acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three months after the end of each such semester or year, the report of such 
procurement audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has issued and published a Presidential Decree establishing 
the board of directors and program committee provided for in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement, and has appointed for the IMU a financial manager; 
(b)
the consultants’ services required for the development of the system of 
Project Management Reports have been employed; and 
(c)
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower and approved by 
the Bank.
Section 5.02.  The date September 29, 1999, is hereby specified for purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Daniel Carvallo 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Xavier Coll 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of the
  Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Daniel Carvallo
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf of the
  Controller General of the Republic of Chile
Page  8
By /s/ Daniel Carvallo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for
   3,475,000
50% of the amounts
Research Sub-
disbursed under each
projects
Grant Agreement
(2)
Goods for Parts
      75,000
50%
B and C of the
Project
(3)
Consultants'
   1,150,000
50%
services and
training for
Parts B and C
of the Project
(4)
Operating
     250,000
50%
Expenditures
(5)
Fee
      50,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
TOTAL
   5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Operating Expenditures” means the 
cost of fixed term consultants’ fees, office supplies and materials, office leasing, 
utilities, travel and other related costs of the IMU, and the board of directors and 
program committee referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $300,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 29, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) for goods, works and consulting 
services in respect of which prior review is not required in accordance with the 
provisions of Parts C.2 of Sections I and II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) 
Grants for Research Subprojects; and (c) local training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to demonstrate the effectiveness of transparent, 
merit-based allocation procedures and investigator autonomy in improving the quality 
and efficiency of scientific research and training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  9
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence 
Operation of a competitive fund (the Competitive Fund) through the provision of 
grants to Beneficiaries for scientific research and training.
Part B:
Networking for the Promotion of Scientific Excellence
Carrying out of networking for scientific collaboration, and outreach activities 
to disseminate the benefits of quality research to potential collaborators and 
benefactors such as students, fellow researchers and/or partners from business and 
industries, such as: (a) visits to international science and technology institutions; 
(b) design and delivery of post graduate courses; (c) exchange programs for 
researchers and graduate and post-doctoral students; and (d) dissemination workshops.
Part C:
Project Management
1.
Establishment and operation of a board of directors, program committee and 
Project implementation and management unit, including the provision of the technical 
assistance and equipment required therefor.
2.
(a)
Development of a proposal to improve the Borrower’s institutional 
framework for science and technology research and training; and 
(b)
Carrying out of studies (including surveys) for the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
  (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
     Dollars)
January 15, 2003
150,000 
July 15, 2003
155,000 
January 15, 2004
160,000 
July 15, 2004
165,000 
January 15, 2005
165,000 
July 15, 2005
170,000 
January 15, 2006
175,000 
July 15, 2006
180,000 
January 15, 2007
185,000 
July 15, 2007
190,000 
January 15, 2008
195,000 
July 15, 2008
200,000 
January 15, 2009
210,000 
July 15, 2009
215,000 
January 15, 2010
220,000 
July 15, 2010
225,000 
January 15, 2011
230,000 
July 15, 2011
235,000 
January 15, 2012
245,000 
July 15, 2012
250,000 
January 15, 2013
260,000 
July 15, 2013
265,000 
January 15, 2014
270,000 
July 15, 2014
285,000
TOTALS:
     5,000,000
Page  10
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding Except as provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 below, 
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, issuing standard bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
Shopping 
Goods for Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent 
and goods for Research Subprojects which do not meet the requirements of Part B.3 
hereof, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Scientific equipment and other goods for Research Subprojects which are of a 
proprietary nature or must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a 
performance guarantee may, with the Bank’s prior agreement of such method of 
procurement as evidenced by Bank approval of the procurement plans referred to in 
Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works for Research Subprojects estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
By not later than January 1 and July 1 each year, commencing July 1, 1999, the 
proposed procurement plans for the subsequent six months of the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plans as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  11
(a)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods or works procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in B.1 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in B.2, B.3 and B.4 above, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor or the 
execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Section, consultants’ 
services for Parts B and C of the Project, and for Research Subprojects, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.9 (d) of the Consultants’ 
Guidelines may, with the Bank's prior agreement of such method of selection as 
evidenced by Bank approval of the procurement plans referred to in Section II, Part 
C.1 of this Schedule, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
Page  12
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate of $800,000 equivalent for services under 
Parts B and C of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
By not later than January 1 and July 1 each year, commencing July 1, 1999, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants for the subsequent six months of the 
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection 
plans as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  13
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into Special Account shall be 
Page  14
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
