                                                                                                                          92525
Chile: Building Human Capital for the Global Knowledge Economy                                                     December 1, 2004
                         As the world relies increasingly on science and technology that become more complex every day, developing
                         countries need to cultivate a core of skilled scientists who can keep abreast of cutting-edge research conducted
                         in developed countries. But with many top researchers emigrating for opportunities abroad, poor countries are
                         struggling to support local talent, and prevent the so-called brain-drain that undermines their research efforts.

                         The World Bank and the Chilean government partnered in 1999 to launch the Millennium Science Initiative (MSI),
                         which aims to boost Chile’s science and technology sector by supporting local scientists and investing in new
                         research.

With MSI help, more than a dozen first-rate research centers have been established and many of the              Results
country’s top scientists have received grants through an established fund administered by an international      Results have spilled over
committee of selected scientists. MSI research grants so far have been awarded to 160 Chilean senior            beyond Chile’s borders: 18
scientists, enabling them to compete with international peers.                                                  doctoral and post-doctoral
                                                                                                                students from neighboring
                                                                                                                countries have received
Benefits have trickled down to students as well. These scientists are responsible for training half of the
                                                                                                                MSI fellowships
country’s graduate students in science and engineering, and 47 doctorates have been awarded since MSI’s
inception. Additionally, 252 graduate and undergraduate students, funded through other sources, are associated with MSI as researchers.

Results have spilled over beyond Chile’s borders: 18 doctoral and postdoctoral students from neighboring countries have received MSI
fellowships. Building on the program’s success, in May 2003, the World Bank approved a second $25.3 million loan to strengthen the
project.




Updated: November 2003
