CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1363 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second PDFCI Project)
between
INTFRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
P.T. PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
COMPANY OF INDONESIA
Dated January 28, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and P.T. PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called PDFCI), a private development finance institu-
tion established and operating under the laws and regulations of
the Republic of Indonesia.
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dol-
lars ($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in-the
* -Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PDFCI agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
PDFCI, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agree-
ment will be made available to PDFCI on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PDFCI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿2 -
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PDFCI shall carry out the Project described in
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with
the Charter and Statement of Policy.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and stlject to, the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, PDFCI shall submit sub-loans
and investments to the Bank for approval or for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-
loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval, PDFCI shall fur-
nish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and
an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to PDFCI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or invest-
ment, including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or
of repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for
the investment; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.


﻿(c) Each request by PDFCI for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan
shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to PDFCI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
(ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, includ-
ing the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each in-
vestment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Bank and PDFCI shall otherwise agree (i) shall not ex-
tend beyond 15 years from the date of approval by the Bank of such
sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan,
of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Ac-
count in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of princi-
pal and interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more fre-
quent, payments of principal.
(e) PDFCI shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior approval,
any substantial changes proposed to be made by PDFCI in respect
of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
(f) Except as the Bank and the PDFCI shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of para-
graphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank
on or before June 30, 1979.


﻿* -
Section 2.03. In order to assist PDFCI in staff training,
PDFCI shall employ an expert whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.04. PDFCI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PDFCI shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PDFCI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PDFCI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PDFCI of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PDFCI
Section 3.01. (a) PDFCI undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms
whereby PDFCI shall obtain, by written contract with the Invest-
ment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights ade-
quate to protect the interests of the Bank, PDFCI and the Borrower,
including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it
shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of
PDFCI to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate reords; (ii) require that: (1)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and effi-
ciency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services,
of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them
and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and
any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the
Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible


﻿)                                     -7 -
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) with-
out any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Bank, PDFCI or the Borrower shall rea-
sonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with PDFCI.
(b) PDFCI shall exercise its rights in relation to each In-
vestment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank, PDFCI and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.02. PDFCI shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan relent to PDFCI under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, the Project, the Investment Enterprises,
the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans and investments.


﻿8                                     0
Section 3.03. PDFCI shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise
put at the disposal of PDFCI by the Borrower or its agencies or
others for relending, investment or management. PDFCI shall promptly
inform the Bank of any action which would have the effect of as-
signing, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provi-
sion of, any such agreement.
Section 3.04. If PDFCI establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
PDFCI shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obli-
gations of PDFCI hereunder to the extent to which such obligations
shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations
were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.05. PDFCI shall ensure that the positions of its
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive
Officer are at all times filled by qualified and experienced
persons and that, before any appointment is made to any such posi-
tion, the Bank shall be informed of the name, qualifications and
experience of the person being considered for appointment to such
position and shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to comment
on the qualifications and experience of such person.


﻿09 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PDFCI shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of PDFCI.
Section 4.02. PDFCI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon
as available but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of PDFCI and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PDFCI
shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as
shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond PDFCI's


﻿- 10                                    0
control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as
shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such
limit.
Section 4.04. PDFCI shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of PDFCI which, in
the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect PDFCI's ability
to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and PDFCI, PDFCI shall not incur or permit any subsidiary
to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consol-
idated debt of PDFCI and all its subsidiaries then incurred and
outstanding would be greater than three times the consolidated
capital and surplus of PDFCI and all its subsidiaries. For the pur-
poses of this Section:
(a) (i) "debt" means any debt incurred by PDFCI or any sub-
sidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred; and (ii) the term "debt" shall not include
either the principal amount of the Subordinated Loan or of any
other subordinated loan which, in the event of liquidation, shall
rank both after all other debt of PDFCI and pari passu with equity;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan con-
tract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;


﻿0                                     - 11 -
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Rupiah debt payable in foreign cur-
rency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable by PDFCI for the purposes of servicing such
debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of PDFCI and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of PDFCI and subsidiaries, exclud-
ing any debt owed by PDFCI to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary
to PDFCI or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of PDFCI and subsid-
iaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of PDFCI and subsidiaries after excluding
therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests of
PDFCI in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in PDFCI or any other
subsidiary, and (ii) the outstanding principal amount of the Sub-
ordinated Loan or of any other subordinated loan to PDFCI which,
in the event of liquidation, shall rank both after all other debt
of PDFCI and pari passu with equity.
Section 4.06. PDFCI shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the cur-
rencies (including Rupiah) used in its lending and borrowing opera-
tions.


﻿- 12                                     0
Section 4.07. PDFCI shall consult with the Bank prior to
undertaking any short-term money market operations involving use
of funds from PDFCI's borrowings.
Section 4.08. The Bank and PDFCI shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their represen-
tatives with regard to the administration, operations and financial
condition of PDFCI and its subsidiaries, and PDFCI shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the administration, operations and financial con-
dition of PDFCI and subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. PDFCI shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agree-
ment and any relevant documents.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of PDFCI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For PDFCI:
P.T. Private Development Finance
Company of Indonesia
Jalan Abdul Muis No. 60
Jakarta
Indonesia


﻿*- 15 -
Cable address:
BEASWASTA
Jakarta
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PDFCI may be taken or executed by the Chair-
man of the Board of Directors of PDFCI or such other person or
persons as the said Board shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. PDFCI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of PDFCI, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by PDFCI pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 16 -                                   0
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
P.T. PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
COMPANY OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Djoeana Koesoemahardja
Authorized Representative


