Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ON1fY
Repoo No.: 17888
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPQRT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEI2N
TID WADI URAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2045YYEM)
May 19, 198
Rural Pevelopmrent, Water and Environment IPepartment
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
tbis documnentih4s' a restricted distrib04on and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit Yemeni Rial (YR)
Offilcial Rate        Ma,rkt Rate
June 1991              US$ I = YR 12         US$ 1 = YR 29
October 1994           US$ I = YR 50         US$ I = YR 103
October 1995           US$ I = YR 90         US$ I = YR 112
December 1996          US$ I = YR 100        US$ 1 = YR 126
December 1997          US$1 sYR 130.99       US$ I =YR 130.99
ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD             Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
ARA               Agricultural Research Authority
AREA              Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
CACB              Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CIDA              Canadian International Deveiopment Association
CTA               Chief Technical Adviser
EC                European Community
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP            Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Programme
GOY               Government of Yemen
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
IMU'              Irrigation Management Unit
KFAED             Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MAI               Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
NWRA              National Water Resource Authority
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
PMU               Project Management Unit
ROY               Republic of Yemen
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
SMS               Subject Matter Specialist
TA                Technical Assistance
WHAP II           Second Wadi Hadrainawt Agricultural Project
WHAP III          Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President:               Kemal Dervi,
Country Director:             Inder K. Sud
Sector Director, MNSRE        Salah Darghouth   .
Task Team Leader:             Usaid E-Hlanbali



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2045-YEM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....               ........................................................ i-ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ......................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ......................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................ . .8
D. Projeclt Sustainability ......................................................9
E. IDA Performance .10
F. Borrower Performance .................    ....................................  11
G. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................  12
H. Future Operations .....................................................     12
I.. Key Lessons Learned .13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2:  Related IDA Credits .17
Table 3:     Project Timetable ...........    , .........................      19
Table 4      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated Actual                 19
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation .23
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .23
Table 8A: Project Costs .24
Table 8B: Project Financing .24
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .25
Table 10:  Status of Credit Covenants .26
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .27
Table 12:  IDA Resources: Staff Inputs .27
Table 13:  IDA Resources: Missions .28
ANNEXES
A. Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B. Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
C. Economic Re-Evaluation
Map: IBRD 21479-R
s    cument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(Credit 2045-YEM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Wadi Hadramawt
Agricultural Project for which Credit 2045-YEM in the amount of SDR 9.3 million (US$12.0 million
equivalent) was approved on October 30, 1989 and became effective on June 15, 1990. The credit, to be
disbursed over seven years, covered 29 percent of the total project cost, estimated at US$41.8 million.
The initial cofinancing arrangement included a loan of US$11.9 million from the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED), a loan of US$8.5 million from the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (AFSED) and a Government contribution (GOY) of US$9.4 million.
However, the cofinancing from KFAED did not materialize, due to factors outside the
control of the Government.  This necessitated a restructuring of the project in March 1994 at a re-
estimated cost of US$27.1 million, to be financed through AFSED (US$11.5 million),
IDA (US$12.6 million, being the then undisbursed value of the SDR denominated credit), and the
Government (US$3.0 million). However, financing by the AFSED did not also materialize until after the
IDA credit was closed, and the project was further curtailed.
Actual project cost is estimated at about US$8.1 million, and includes an IDA credit of
US$6.2 million and GOY contribution of US$1.9 million. No disbursement took place from either
KFAED or AFESD loans. Considering that an amount of SDR 4.0 million was cancelled (original
amount was SDR 9.3 million) from the IDA credit in September 1995, final IDA credit disbursement
(SDR 4.36 million) is about 47 percent of the original, or 82 percent of the reduced IDA credit amount
(SDR 5.3 million as of September 1995).
In spite of the numerous factors that affected project implementation including: the Gulf War
(1991) which caused uncertainty regarding the cofinancing arrangements with KFAED and AFESD;
reunification of Yemen in 1991 and return of project area land to original owners; civil war in 1994,
devaluation of Yemeni Rial in 1995; and severe floods of 1996, the restructured project is considered to
have achieved its objectives especially for the following components: Spate Irrigation Improvement,
Flood Control Works, and Forestry and Sand Dune Fixation components, while it did only achieve
partially its objectives for the Agricultural Research and Extension components. Accordingly, the overall
rating for the project as restructured is considered satisfactory.
A draft ICR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (CP) mission1
(on behalf of MNSRE Department of the Middle East and North Africa Region) and is based on the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), Supervision Reports, the project
restructuring report of 1992, discussions with IDA staff and information obtained from the project files,
The initial FAO/CP ICR mission of June-July 1997 consisted of Messrs: F.K. Bishay (Mission Leader, Senior
Economist), R. Suppa (Agricultural Economist) and J.C. Macartney (Agronomist, Consultant).



as well as information supplied by the project staff and the findings of the initial ICR mission which
visited Yemen in June-July 1997. A joint IDA and FAO/CP mission also visited Yemen in December
1997 to update and finalise the draft ICR2. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
providing inputs and information to the above two missions and by preparing the Borrower's full ICR
from the Borrower's point of view, which is summarized in Annex B to this report.
2IDA, FAO/CP mission consisted of Messrs. U. El-Hanbali (Team Leader, Senior Irrigation Engineer, MNSRE), M.
Ben Ali (Senior Agriculturist, MNSRE), and R. Suppa (Agriculture Economist, FAO/CP).



- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(Credit 2045-YEM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project, as stated in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to consolidate and expand developments in Wadi
Hadramawt, so as to ensure sustainable agricultural production and to improve the income and
living standards of project beneficiaries, while paying attention to conserving the environment.
This would be achieved through: (i) consolidating agriculture developments in the Second Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Project areas (Credit No. 1346-YDR); (ii) providing dependable
irrigation water supplies through tubewell development to about 3,025 ha in 17 additional areas
which are mostly contiguous with areas developed under the Second Wadi Hadramawt
Agricultural Project; (iii) improving works for spate irrigation for 2,700 ha; (iv) providing
incremental inputs required to raise the level of cropping intensity in the total project area (6,250
ha) to 130 percent; (v) expanding agricultural research and extension services; (vi) establishing
an Irrigation Maintenance Unit (IMU) in Wadi Hadramawt; and (vii) providing training and
technical assistance personnel for developing irrigation systems and for improving agricultural
productivity. The original IDA credit amount was SDR 9.3 million and the initial cofinancing
arrangement included a loan of US$11.9 million from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED), a loan of US$8.5 million from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (AFSED), and a Government contribution (GOY) of US$9.4 million.
2.    The project had to be restructured in 1994 due to several factors including: the Gulf war
in 1991 which led to uncertainty of cofinancing arrangements with KFAED and AFESD,
reunification of Yemen in 1991 and civil war in 1994. Also, devaluation of the Yemeni Rial in
1995 and its impact on contracting of project activities and severe floods of 1996 affected and
slowed down project implementation. The restructured project components included the
following: (i) irrigation development, including: groundwater irrigation development with a
reduced area of 1,450 ha from 3,025 ha proposed in the SAR; spate improvement and flood
control works for an area of 2,700 ha; (ii) agricultural development, including: agricultural
research and extension; forestry and sand dune fixation; fruit tree nursery; farm machinery;
agricultural inputs; and irrigation maintenance unit; (iii) project management, including
technical assistance and training; (iv) pilot land registration system; and (v) studies.



- ii -
3.    The revised project scope, at restructuring, was appropriate at the time. However,
further changes in the land tenure system, as a result of privatization of nationalized lands in the
Southern Governorates which created uncertainty in the farming responsibilities, required scaling
down in operations, especially in agricultural inputs and agricultural machinery. Accordingly,
IDA contribution was reduced to SDR 5.3 million from the restructured value of SDR 9.3
million, with the anticipation that the AFSED loan (US$8.5 million) would be declared effective,
which has not materialized as of the closing date of the IDA Credit. This led to non-
implementation of the groundwater irrigation component and reduction in the scope of
supporting components financed by IDA.
Implementation Results and Experience
4.    The project objective of consolidating and expanding developments in Wadi Hadramawt
so as to ensure sustainable agricultural production has been partially achieved. The spate
irrigation development was highly successful exceeding by far SAR expectations: some 4,000 ha
against an SAR's target of 2,700 ha. Implementation of flood control, sand dune fixation works
and nurseries was also satisfactory, despite the late start of the implementation program. The
project also met the main objective of establishing the institutional framework for
agricultural/irrigation development in the area, and providing infrastructures and facilities for
agricultural research and extension. However, some of the project components/sub-components
namely the agricultural extension, on-farm improvement and the pilot land registration, were
unsatisfactory. In addition, the principal disappointment has been the non-implementation of the
groundwater irrigation development program due to factors beyond the control of the project, i.e.
non-availability of cofinancing from AFSED.
5.    The Bank's performance in identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision of the
project is considered satisfactory, particularly the quick response and flexibility to rapidly
changing  circumstances.   The  Borrower's performance  in  project preparation  and
implementation was satisfactory overall, though some aspects were deficient, especially the long
delay between signing, effectiveness, and start up of field activities and provision of adequate
recurrent budgets.  The Borrower is to be complimented on concentrating project resources
where farmer response was positive and where the farmers were ready to participate in the
construction and maintenance of some of the project works.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
6.    Overall Findings. Given the critical problems, which were beyond the control of the
Government or the project, and the satisfactory implementation of the spate irrigation
development program and the sand fixation works as indicated above, the outcome of the
project as was restructured is rated satisfactory. The overall economic rate of return has been
assessed at 10.1 percent, slightly below the 11.5 percent estimated at restructuring or 3
percentage points lower than the ERR foreseen at appraisal (13.1 percent). Overall, the project
had a good impact on development in Wadi Hadramawt. The project had provided a good
physical infrastructure and developed a valuable management resource capability, gained
experience in demand-driven spate irrigation development, and achieved positive recovery of
farm production. Although some project achievements have generally been satisfactory, the full
impact of the investment has not yet been realized.



- iii -
7.     Sustainability. The overall project sustainability is uncertain. The sustainability of the
project is now a major challenge and depends on continuing funding for flood control measures,
timely and adequate recurrent budget for research/extension, and more autonomy for PMU
operations. However, the spate irrigation component has been highly successful, particularly due
to farmers' support for this traditional system and their willingness to participate in construction
and maintenance. The sustainability prospects for spate irrigation is, therefore, high. The
sustainability prospects for the sand dune fixation is also high, since farmers will be in charge of
O&M for these works.
8.     Future Operations. The future operations of the project face a number of challenges,
including: (i) the complex process of the transition from the controlled system into a largely
private agricultural sector; (ii) the current national budgetary/financial constraints under the
GOY economic reform and restructuring program that could result in a serious limitation to
national funding of future recurrent costs needed to achieve the project's sustainability; and (iii)
the need for an efficient institutional and coordination mechanism to enhance complementarity
between the project's future operations and other agricultural and rural development projects in
Wadi Hadramawt. To meet these challenges, several measures were discussed with MAI, the
PMU and IDA Resident Mission in Yemen with the understanding that these measures would be
pursued in the future by the GOY (see para. 54 in Part-I of the Report). Some of these concerns
will be also dealt with during the implementation of other IDA projects (Southern Governorates
Rural Development Project, Credit No. 2998-YEM, and National Emergency Flood
Rehabilitation Project, Credit No. 2932-YEM).
9.     Lessons Learned. The following are the main lessons learned:
*  Original project objectives were ambitious and, therefore, project design became
complex. Fewer objectives and simple project design should characterize future
investments.
*  Project cofinancing arrangements were not fully developed during project appraisal
and prompt action to restructure the project was not taken when the outlook for
cofinancing became uncertain.  To reduce project implementation risks, core
components of the project should be included in IDA financing and not be left in the
hands of cofinanciers. Timely action should be taken to restructure project when
uncertainties relating to financing arrangements become apparent.
*  The extent of disruption in farming activities resulting from radical changes in land
tenure arrangements were underestimated at project restructuring. Social assessment
of the project would provide a more reliable basis for restructuring when radical
shifts take place in land tenure arrangements.
*  Farmers' participation in the implementation and operation and maintenance of
several project components proved beneficial for both the completion and
sustainability of several project components (e.g. spate irrigation and flood control
works, sand dune fixation and forestry). Since participatory involvement takes time,
it should be instituted at the early stages of the project.
*  IDA's flexibility in processing procurement and close coordination between the
Bank's Resident Mission in Sana'a and PMU facilitated timely procurement of
essential goods and services and satisfactory project completion.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(Credit 2045-YEM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.        Wadi Hadramawt is a key area for agricultural production in Yemen.  IDA initiated the
development of this area in 1976 with the First Wadi Hadmawt Agricultural Project (Cr. 615-YDR,
US$7.0 million), focusing on increases in agricultural production on about 8,000 ha of irrigated land
through the provision of extension units, inputs and feeder roads, as well as a study of groundwater
resources to increase irrigated agriculture.   The second phase project (Second Wadi Hadramawt
Agriculture Project, Cr.1346-YDR, US$9.0 million) achieved significant impact on irrigation
improvements for about 3,360 ha, institution building and agricultural developments.
2.        The main objectives of the Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project, as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), were to consolidate and expand agricultural developments in Wadi Hadramawt,
so as to ensure sustainable agricultural production and to improve the income and living standards of
project beneficiaries, while paying attention to conserving the environment. This would be achieved
through: (i) consolidating developments in the Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project areas;
(ii) providing dependable irrigation water supplies through tubewell development to about 3,025 ha in
17 additional areas which are mostly contiguous with areas developed under Phase II; (iii) improving
works for spate irrigation for 2,700 ha; (iv) providing incremental input required to raise the level of
cropping intensity in the total project area (6,250 ha) to 130%; (v) expanding agricultural research and
extension services; (vi) establishing an Irrigation Maintenance Unit (IMU) in Wadi Hadramawt; and (vii)
providing training and technical assistance personnel for developing irrigation systems and for improving
agricultural productivity. The project cost was estimated to total US$41.8 million, and the financing plan
provided for an IDA credit of US$12.0 million equivalent, and cofinancing of US$20.4 million equivalent
to be provided by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) and the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (AFSED).
3.        Due to factors outside the control of Government (Gulf War in 1990 that caused uncertainty
regarding the cofinancing arrangements with KFAED and AFESD), and due to internal factors
(reunification of Yemen and return of land to original owners that caused breakdown of co-operative
agriculture system), there were long delays in the project start-up. Subsequently, the project was
restructured in 1994 (the restructuring process started in November 1992 and was finalised in March
1994), the original SAR project components were revised with a view to: (i) scaling down the overall size
of the project to take into account the fact that the KFAED loan (totalling US$11.9 million equivalent)
was not available at that time; (ii) scaling down the ground-water irrigation component (from 3,025 ha
proposed in SAR to 1,450 ha) for the same reason; (iii) strengthening and re-designing the research and
extension component to reorient its emphasis from state and large cooperative-based farms to the needs of
smaller farmers working independently; and (iv) scaling down the farm machinery, agricultural inputs



2
supply and irrigation maintenance unit component to meet the revised scale of the project and changing
input and output pricing system.
4.        The restructured project components included the following: (i) irrigation development,
including: groundwater irrigation development with a reduced area of 1,450 ha from 3,025 ha proposed in
the SAR; spate improvement and flood control works for an area of 2,700 ha; (ii) agricultural
development, including: agricultural research; agricultural extension; forestry and sand dune fixation;
fruit tree nursery; farm machinery; agricultural inputs; and irrigation maintenance unit; (iii) project
management (including technical assistance and training); (iv) pilot land registration system; and (v)
studies.
5.        The revised objectives were appropriate at the time, but further changes in the land tenure
system, as a result of privatisation, required a further scaling down in operations which created
uncertainty in the farming responsibilities, especially in the agricultural machinery and agricultural inputs
(see paras. 20 and 21).  Accordingly, IDA contribution was reduced to SDR5.3 million from the
restructured value of SDR9.3 million. This was done with the anticipation that the AFSED loan would
be declared effective, which has not yet materialized.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
General
6.        The project design was overly ambitious regarding what could be achieved over a seven-year
implementation period. Furthermore, by pre-appraisal, it was clear that radical changes would take place
in the overall farming system with privatisation of holdings out of the previously established cooperative
system. However, the full extent of the change and the effect on farming systems and production were
seriously underestimated. The project, at completion, had effectively operated for only two years and this
has been taken into consideration during the evaluation of performance of key indicators of project
implementation (see Table 5). Accordingly, the restructured project is considered to have achieved its
objectives. The following is a summary of project's achievements by component:
Irrigation Development
7.        Overall, the achievement under this component is considered to be satisfactory, keeping
in view the non-availability of financing to implement the sub-component of groundwater irrigation
development.
8.        Groundwater Irrigation Development.  The main objective under the SAR was to
construct 59 tubewells with a capacity of 50-60 I/sec. to develop 3,025 ha under irrigation. This objective
was scaled down under the project's restructuring in 1992 to cover only 1,450 ha with the construction of
the same number of tubewells but reducing their capacity to 25-30 I/sec. By 1995, the appointed
consultants had not been mobilised to conduct a study to select potential areas. It was later decided that
the study to be funded by AFESD could not be completed before project closure. Finally, due to the
unavailability of funds earmarked for this purpose by AFESD, this sub-component remained not
implemented. During the restructuring of the project, MAI gave assurance that it would provide the
necessary budget, staff and equipment for the establishment of 66 wells to alleviate the problems of
displaced farmers. Only 26 wells have been drilled and, due to continuing land disputes and budget
shortage, only five are operational. IDA agreed to finance 20 pump sets and these have now been



3
procured, and woulcd be allocated to small farmers in the project area with provision for cost recovery
similar to other arrangements in the area (50 percent to be paid by beneficiaries at pump delivery; and 50
percent to be paid over 5 years).
9.        On-Farm Improvement. This program was also scaled down at restructuring reducing land
improvement activities from the foreseen 6,250 ha at appraisal to 4,000 ha. However, no actual
implementation took place and neither farm sheds nor farm roads were constructed. Out of the 20 km of
access roads to be constructed as proposed after the restructuring, only 5 km have been completed due to
delay in the start up of this activity. The remaining are to be constructed under the National Emergency
Flood Rehabilitation Project (NEFRP). Although overall, the implementation performance of this
component is considered unsatisfactory, private sector provided the needed agricultural inputs and the
negative impact on farm production was minimal.
10.       Spate Irrigation Improvement and Flood Control Works. Taking into account the
uncertainties that prevailed over the cofinancing of development funds for the core project component
(groundwater irrigation development which was earmarked for financing by AFSED), the PMU diverted
its irrigation construction capability to the spate irrigation sub-component. IDA supervision missions
supported and encouraged the identification of new sites and the maximization of the command areas.
Original targets of improvement of 2,700 ha over 23 sites have been exceeded to cover a total area of
4,050 ha with the successful completion of flood protection works in 1996 at Wadi Thibi and Wadi
Suwairyi areas. In addition to those, 60 more schemes for about 600 ha have been surveyed and designs
have been prepared and would be implemented under the NEFRP and future projects (Southern
Governorates Project). The Government also intends to request financing for these schemes from the EU.
Spate irrigation improvements provided the major quantifiable benefits of the project. The system
provided supplementary irrigation for marginal farmers producing sorghum, sesame, pulses and dates
(Appendix C, Table 6). The technique is well known to farmers and has the added advantage of
increasing fertility (through siltation) and enhancing aquifer recharge. The schemes are small and do not
attract contractors. Farmers actively participate in construction works under the supervision of project
engineers. Their participation was estimated to be about 20% mainly in the form of labor and also the
supply of materials (stones) in some cases. An additional important benefit of spate works was protection
of a major historical site, Shibam.  Spate and flood works implemented under the project protected
Shibam and ensured that floods would be diverted to beneficial uses in the spate irrigated areas around
Shibam. These works were carried out in close cooperation with the Shibam community. The
achievement under the spate irrigation sub-component has been highly satisfactory.
Agricultural Development
11.       Overall, the agricultural development achievements under the restructured project are
considered satisfactory.
12.       Agricultural Research. The stated objective of the Seiyun Regional Research Station
(SRRS) was to develop improved technologies that will contribute to increased agriculture productivity
and sustain the natural resource base in Wadi Hadramawt. With project funding, these technologies were
to be further adopted to local conditions and demonstrated through concentration on off-station trials in
the project area. Four research/extension centres were constructed to facilitate more effective coverage.
The SRRS has had previous support from the IDA Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Cr.
1557-YDR), through which a long-term research strategy and annual programs of work were developed.
The project's research component has further developed the institutional and organizational capability of
the SRRS. A rational program of work, based on priority lines of research, is now operational. The



4
program focuses on crop improvement, water use efficiency, integrated pest management and the supply
of soil and water analysis services to farmers. Technical recommendations, made by SRRS are being
slowly adopted by farmers, due to partially operated extension services.
13.       Local selections and introduction of  High Yielding Varieties (HYV) of wheat from
ICARDA have been field-tested and promising material subjected to verification trials. Two HYVs with
salt tolerance (Seiyun 1 and Sowary) are now ready for release, and it is expected that uptake by farmers
will be high, as the use of the traditional variety "Kaigansona" has diminished because its resistance to
leaf rust has broken down. Some 40-60 percent increases in yield have been achieved by the new variety
on farmers fields. With optimum cultural practices, the new varieties have a potential yield of 4-
6 MT/ha. Research continues on the testing of five salt-tolerant wheat strains developed from crosses
between AHGAF (an introduced HYV wheat variety) and local ecotypes.
14.       Onion is the most popular cash crop in the region as it is well suited to local conditions.
Selections within the mixed local onion varieties have shown encouraging yield performance and storage
quality . Simple mass selection has produced two strains (Ba-fateam white and Ba-fateam red), giving
about 25 percent yield increase up to 50 MT/ha of bulb onion. These varieties will be released next
season. Markets, including exports, are strong and prices are attractive. A new vegetable seed company
is being created with support from the IDA-financed Seeds and Agricultural Services Project to expand
onion production and exports.
15.       Packages of cultural practices have been developed for wheat, onion, potato, sorghum and
tomatoes, and extension bulletins are being prepared. A noteworthy achievement has been the work on
determining optimum crop water requirements and irrigation schedules for potatoes and onions. This
work, undertaken with the assistance of a project financed irrigation agronomist, has shown that about 30
percent reduction in water application to potatoes and 50 percent to onions had no significant effect on
yield. With increasing pressure on groundwater and salinity problems, these recent results will have high
extension priority. The achievements under this sub-component have, therefore, been satisfactory.
16.       Agricultural Extension. The improved extension support services envisaged did not fully
materialize mainly due to a chronic shortage of operating funds. Extension was frequently immobilised
and the achievements recorded at farm level (paras. 12 and 13) were largely due to demonstrations carried
out by research workers. However, and since funds were recently made available to the Extension
Department, limited field operations were able to recommence in 1995, but were not fully operational
until the arrival of the project transport facilities (10 vehicles and 25 motorcycles) in July 1996. Three
days a week are allocated to farmer visits, and extension agent/farmer ratio is reported to be about 1:200.
Intensity of the farm visits should improve as the extension centres have been completed under the
project and handed over to the Extension Department. These centers are now adequately staffed and
should serve farmers during the crop season.
17.       The extension program is formulated by a joint research/extension technical committee. The
extension services have their own Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), covering livestock, plant protection,
mechanisation, horticulture, rural women development and crop production. This cadre of specialists
assists in the dialogue with the research officers. Certain packages of practices have been developed and
refined under the project, covering specific recommendations; in particular: varietal and water application
for wheat, potatoes, onion and tomatoes. Extension focus is through field demonstration (seeds and
inputs provided by the project) and individual farmer follow-up. There is no monitoring and evaluation
capability within the service and this has been realized to be its main weakness. While the structure and
linkage of the Extension Department with research are appropriate, the operational performance is weak



5
because of inadequate funds for extension. However, some Government funding was provided after
September 1997, which enabled the Extension Department to carry out some field activities. However,
the funds were not enough to carry out all the needed extension activities, and achievement of this sub-
component is considered unsatisfactory. The sustainability of the extension activities will depend on
the availability of finds from the Government and/or from possible donors funding that the Government
is seeking.
18.       Training. Achievements under this component are  considered  satisfactory. A
comprehensive training program was implemented on schedule, including two Masters fellowships in
extension which have been completed in October 1997, and the trainees have rejoined the project. Short-
term training was well focused on extension and irrigation technology carried out in Egypt and Jordan (16
candidates). A further 30 candidates received training in forestry, crop research, irrigation, engineering,
water monitoring, machinery maintenance and horticulture. Overall, the implemented training program
under the component included 68 p.m. of overseas training and 3 p.m. of local training, or 45 percent and
65 percent of the SAR and the restructured targets, respectively. Both the Project Management and
trainees reported satisfaction with the training program's content and organization.
19.          Fruiit Tree Nurseries. Under the project, a new nursery at Al-Qat'n was established
and is fully functional now and producing seedlings that are sold to the farmers. In addition, the original
nursery at Al-Swairi, set up under Phase II, was expanded by 400 m2 and staff were trained. Production
of seedlings increased from 18,000 to 21,000 in 1996 and production for 1997 was 32,400. Seedling
prices cover production costs, but not fixed costs. It is expected that the demand for seedlings from the
two nurseries will continue for the short and medium terms, since the private nurseries can not meet the
demand. This activity is considered to be satisfactory and sustainable.
20.       Agricultural Machinery. The achievement under this component is unsatisfactory.
Agricultural machinery procurement was scaled down to US$2.5 million from an initial allocation of
US$9.6 million under the restructured project. With farm fragmentation, high inflation and reduced
farmer incomes, it was clear that farmers would be unable to purchase equipment. Final procurement
included only three tractors and 204 knapsack sprayers, at a total cost of US$138,300, to be used by the
extension service in demonstrations. Given the adverse circumstances which the project faced during its
implementation, the failure to implement this sub-component did not seriously affect the project's
outcome.
21.       Agricultural Inputs. The SAR target for agricultural inputs included procurement of about
1,300 tons of fertilizer, 7.8 tons of pesticide and 365 tons of seeds. Corresponding targets, under the
restructured project, were 595 tons of fertilizer, 5.4 tons of pesticide and 590 tons of seeds. The project
was to assist in the procurement of these inputs through short-term credit, with the view to providing
essential inputs to project beneficiaries. The PMU was unable to carry out this task, due to increasing
and fluctuating exchange rates and market distortions. However, during project implementation,
farmers were able to purchase some inputs through the private sector. This approach is in line with the
new agricultural policy (being adopted in Wadi Hadramawt) to encourage the private sector, following
the national reunification.
Forestry and Sand Dune Fixation
22.       This project component was introduced as a result of the restructuring exercise. The sand
dune stabilisation unit was staffed by seconding staff from the Research and Extension Department, and



6
providing transport (eight vehicles and five motorcycles) and equipment through project funds. A forest
nursery at Al-Qat'n was established to provide seedlings for the production of suitable species. The
project was able to carry out 12 p.m. (4 staff) of local training as well as 24 p.m. (2 staff) and 27 p.m. (9
staff) of long and short-term overseas training respectively. Local forestry experts contributed to the
development of a windbreak and sand dune fixation plan. The flood control works covered 11 km as
planned and the soil erosion control program was also implemented as planned. However, only 8 km of
dune fixation works were actually carried out during the project period representing about 50 percent of
the target (15 km) foreseen at restructuring (Table 5), because of late implementation and land ownership
problem. The Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) plans to complete the works using its budget.
23.       The production of nursery seedlings increased from 10,000 to 15,000 during 1996-97. The
first pilot stage comprised the establishment of five windbreaks protecting some 75 ha. The expansion
phase is now being implemented under drip and sprinkler irrigation. When completed, partial protection
will have been given to about 6,000 ha of farm land. Farmers' support and participation in this
component have been satisfactory e.g., water, and in some cases piping, are being provided by the
beneficiaries. Also, farmers will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the windbreaks and
irrigation systems.
24.       The forestry research program concentrates on providing base data upon which sand dune
fixation techniques can be developed for field evaluation. Meteorological data (wind speed and direction)
and recording of sand movements provided the basis for planning possible control measures. Species
suitable for shelter belts have been identified and field tested. This material is also being produced in the
Forest Department nursery (Suwayri) and released free of charge for sand dune fixation pilot areas.
25.       The achievements under this component are considered satisfactory, since it
successfully implemented flood control works, windbreaks, and sand dune works using local experience
and through farmers participation. The benefits of these works and their sustainability are obvious.
Pilot Land Registration
26.       A pilot land registration scheme was proposed by the IDA supervision mission of
November 1992. Funds were reallocated for consultant services to prepare a separate project for
addressing the total resettlement issue in the Southern Governorates (Southern Governorates Rural
Development Project). The process of land registration, in the absence of a legal framework and power
of the courts to deal with land issues, was considered too complex to be initiated under the project.
The issue of land registration would now to be addressed under the new IDA Southern Governorates
Project (PA-YE-5902), which is expected to become effective in May 1998. Also, MAI intends to recruit
a local consultant to follow up and advise on this subject in Wadi Hadramawt.
Studies
27.       The project restructuring called for conducting two studies: one to assess groundwater
potential in the Masila catchment, and the other to prepare a separate project for resettling the displaced
farmers in the Southern Governorates (Table 7). The first study was cancelled because similar work was
carried out by GOY and CIDA. The Canadian Oxy Company is currently providing funds, supplemented
by financial assistance from CIDA, for an assessment of the potential of the aquifer. The final report was
completed in mid-1997. The second study was also cancelled since its main objective is expected to be
achieved through the initiation of the IDA Southern Governorates Project.



7
28.       On the other hand, a relevant study was commissioned by the AFESD, using savings from
phase II. A consultancy firm c,arried out the work during 1996-97 and as a result reports entitled: "WH
III Geology and Hydrology Report" (Vol. 1), and "WH III Soil and Land Classification Studies" (Vol. 2)
were published in March 1997.
Project Management
29.       The Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU was transferred directly from the
previous Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (Credit No. 1346), where its
performance was favourably assessed. The PMU was experienced and exercised leadership. It has
proved capable of adjusting to ever-changing circumstances, yet maintaining a momentum. The
provisions made during the project restructuring for vehicles, office equipment and office furniture were
maintained. Civil works that were neither foreseen at appraisal nor at restructuring, but later approved,
were completed, including the construction of a guest house/offices and furniture, vehicle shed, and
fencing the project's headquarters in Seiyun, replacing the civil works for offices (400 mi2) foreseen at
restructuring.
30.       Technical Assistance (TA). The TA was provided under a contract with FAO and covered
69 p.m. of consultants services, including a long-term senior Chief Technical Adviser (CTA), an
irrigation agronomist and a horticulturist. Supporting short-term consultants included a farming systems
specialist and a UN volunteer for monitoring and evaluation. A key input to advise on the legal aspects of
land tenure issues, arising as a result of privatisation policies, was not covered, as the selected consultant
was engaged in preparation of another IDA project (Southern Governorates Project). However, a local
consultant will be recruited by MAI to follow up and advise on this subject. The contract also included
responsibility for organizing and implementing the fellowship and a training program. The consultant
services are considered satisfactory as they were provided in a timely manner and the consultants
integrated well into the project management structure.
Irrigation Maintenance Unit (IMU)
31.       The activities of the IMU are satisfactory. The main construction equipment for the IMU
was procured according to the inventory agreed to in the restructuring report. The staff of the O&M unit
have effectively carried out the identification, design specifications and cost estimations of civil, spate
and flood protection works. The organization and supervision given to the implementation of works
carried out by farrners and the advice given to farmers on the maintenance and supply of spare parts for
pumps were satisfactory. Out of the 30 additional staff foreseen at restructuring, only 20 were actually
recruited. The overseas training program was completed and 12 p.m. were trained in several countries
and returned to Hadramawt.
Economic and Financial Objectives
32.       Actual project cost is estimated at US$8.1 million or about 19 percent of the SAR estimate
(US$41.8 million) or 30 percent of the reduced budget (US$27.1 million) under restructuring - Part II,
Table 8A. Final overall disbursement includes: IDA: US$6.2 million and GOY: US$1.9 million. No
disbursement took place from either KFAED or AFESD loans. Overall IDA credit disbursement is
SDR4.36 million or about 47 percent of the SAR estimate or about 82 percent of the reduced IDA Credit
amount of SDR5.3 million. The GOY contribution was about 20 percent of the SAR estimate or 63
percent of reduced commitment of US$3.0 million (Part II, Table 8B). As indicated in para. 8, and



8
schematically presented in Part II, Table 5, the implementation of the groundwater development program
did not materialize. On the other hand, spate improvement works were very successful and covered an
area of 4,050 ha, well above the SAR target (2,700 ha); an increase of 150 percent. Incremental
quantifiable benefits included in the ex-post economic analysis of the project are, therefore, derived from
the total spate irrigation area as indicated in Appendix C, Tables 6 and 7. Economic prices have been
used as indicated in Appendix C, Table 5.
33.       On the basis of these assumptions, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the project has
been reassessed at 10.1 percent, slightly below the 11.5 percent estimated at restructuring or 3 percentage
lower than the ERR foreseen at appraisal (13.1 percent) - Part II, Table 9. Data on farm models was not
available at the time of the ICR mission. However, in close consultation with the PMU and on the basis
of data given in Appendix C, Table 4, the ICR mission estimated that average farm income in the spate
irrigation area will increase at full development (year 2001) by about 65 percent over the without-project
situation. Details on ERR calculations are given in Appendix C, Table 8.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
34.       The following main external factors that adversely affected the economic and social
conditions in the country were beyond the control of the Government and represented substantial
challenges to project implementation. None of these problems were foreseen at appraisal:
-    The Gulf War (1991) which contributed to a national slowing down of economic
activities and regional disruptions for several years to follow;
-    The non-availability of expected cofinancing from KFAED, AFESD;
-    The resettlement and creation of new employment opportunities required for the large
number of Yemeni workers returning unexpectedly from neighbouring oil-exporting
countries following the Gulf War;
-    The breakdown of the cooperative agricultural systems after reunification and the
return of land to the original owners, with the inevitable disruption to the farming
systems;
-    The reduction in the purchasing power of the Yemeni Rial, due to rapidly increasing
inflation rates, eventually leading to currency devaluations that adversely affected
implementation of civil work contracts. Civil work contracts were denominated in
Yemeni Rials and no escalation clause was included in the contract. The situation was
subsequently corrected (1995) by a Government decision for all civil works contracts
financed by external agencies to be denominated in US dollars or other hard currency;
-    The delays caused by the civil war in 1994 and the absence of project staff from
project activities over a period of several months which affected the running of project
activities;
-    Severe floodings in 1989 and 1996, which caused serious damage to the irrigation
distribution infrastructure in the project area; and
-    Periodic social unrest, leading to a lack of security for project officers in the field.



9
Factors Subject to Government Control
35.       Project Start-up.  There was a serious delay between credit signing (May 1989),
effectiveness (June 1990), and actual start-up of field activities (mid-1995). The slow processing
procedures during the first two years after effectiveness were compounded by the general lack of
infrastructure, shortage of trained personnel and delayed release of counterpart/operating funds. Both
Government and IDA underestimated the problems of the socio-economic environment, overall security
and the prevailing regulations with respect to contracting procedures.
36.        The many unforeseen factors (see para 34) necessitated a restructuring of the project. In
November 1992, the project was restructured to address the changing conditions within the new socio-
economic environment in the Southern Governorates. The restructured project was not endorsed by GOY
until April 1994. Field activities got underway in mid-1995.
37.       Project Management. The PMU, established under Phase II, was retained, due to its proven
capability. Despite the major problems encountered, the PMU structure has continued to be effective, due
to the capability and experience of the staff.
38.       Research and Extension. The project design gave priority support to applied research and
the building of an effective extension service. Given the isolated and hardship area, and to encourage
staff to live there, substantial financial support was directed to the construction of housing, offices,
extension centres and the provision of equipment. There were serious delays in construction of civil
works, due to contractual disputes arising from currency escalation on fixed price constraints. Lack of
facilities pre-empted recruitment of sufficient staff and TA.
39.        Credilt effectiveness in June 1990 coincided with radical changes in the farming system as a
result of land privatization and fragmentation and a growing concern of water resource capacity to sustain
the new developments proposed outside the originally designated project area (a further study was
commissioned). By 1994, when the conditions for restructuring were met, the issues of land tenure, credit
and farmer support services remained. The extension service was unable to respond to serious reduction
in area farmed, yield decreases and tenant farmers' lack of knowledge in developing profitable farming
systems. However, new cultivars demonstrated by research, were readily accepted within the existing
farming system. GOY local budget allocations remained insufficient to mobilise farmer support services.
40.        Monitoring and Evaluation.  Insufficient emphasis was placed on the setting-up of
effective field and M&E programs to monitor, in particular, the extension and irrigation components.
This was largely due to limited national capacity in M&E, staff shortages, lack of mobility, and
inadequate operating budget.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
41.       Overall project sustainability is uncertain. At pre-appraisal, the IDA mission called for clear
understanding on the GOY plans, detailing water charges sufficient to cover the cost of
purchase/replacement and O&M of irrigation infrastructure. Concern was also recorded at future
usufructuary agreements and confirmation of land ownership titles. Cost recovery of total investment
cost for spate irrigation in the form of water charges is particularly difficult on account that flood
irrigation is unpredictable A 10 percent tax was levied on produce marketed throughout the cooperatives
instead of payment for water. The proposals to introduce a land betterment tax to cover fully O&M costs



10
(legislation was drafted in 1990) were supported at appraisal. However, the legislation was never ratified
and no water charges were ever collected.
42.        Due to the continuous changes in the structure of the land tenure and farning systems, there
is little chance of introducing a cost recovery system for groundwater. At present, the input/output prices
and responsibilities of landlord and tenant are varied and unclear. Until such time as the fanning system
stabilises, it will be difficult to apply cost recovery rates. The National Water Resource Authority
(NWRA) is responsible for developing a policy for optimum water utilization schemes, and has requested
IDA support in its formulation. The Government favours a Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM)
system and will first evaluate the possibilities of the PIM with spate irrigation schemes. The experiences
of the project will be directly relevant in providing guidelines for the initial development of a cost
recovery program. The spate irrigation component has been highly successful, particularly due to
farmers' support for this traditional system and their willingness to participate in construction and
maintenance. The beneficiaries made in-kind contributions, including labor and materials, towards the
investment cost of spate irrigation. The sustainability prospects for spate irrigation is, therefore, high.
Furthermore, the partial control of flood water has a known beneficial effect on recharging of aquifers
and will, therefore, help to sustain groundwater reserves. The sustainability prospects for the sand dune
fixation is high, since farmers will be in charge of O&M for these works.
43.        The lack of an adequate recurrent budget for the research program has been a limiting factor.
Some improvements are expected in 1998, when all national research activities will be funded on the
basis of approved sub-projects. Should this system operate effectively and National Research Funds be
adequate, there is hope for a sustainable program. Although some funds were provided in early 1998 to
the Extension Department, the extension service will not become fully operational, unless adequate
operating funds are provided. The sustainability of the operation will ultimately depend on GOY support
to recurrent expenditures.
44.        The security situation continues to cause concern. However, the GOY is hopeful that, with
the actions now being taken, the situation will soon return to normal.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
45.        The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was generally
satisfactory. The project, as appraised, was in line with GOY national objectives to assist in the
promotion of regional development. Wadi Hadramawt had previously only marginally benefited from
public investments in agriculture and has high agricultural potential. The initial design included a well
integrated set of objectives which focused on the continuing priorities of developing an effective
institutional base through the PMU and AREA. Many serious external factors, beyond the control of the
Government and not foreseen at appraisal, had a dramatic effect on the implementation timetable.
Considerable flexibility and constant re-adjustment in direction were therefore necessary. During the
1990-94 period, IDA considered different options on how to proceed, in view of the internal and external
political siiuation (the Gulf War and Unification), including cancellation of the Credit. However, keeping
in view the Government's commitment to carry out the project, IDA elected to continue with project
implementation and concentrated on the areas which were expected to be successful. IDA was innovative
and supportive in dealing with the changing scenario. Appraisal, however, could have been more specific
on GOY responsibility for meeting local costs, as well as giving more emphasis to encouraging private
sector participation/cost recovery systems for nurseries, inputs, and spate irrigation systems.



11
46.        Overall, IDA's performance is considered satisfactory, particularly the quick response and
flexibility to rapidly changing circumstances. However, it took the Bank a long time to decide on the
Credit closure. Consultations with the AFESD should have started earlier and depending on its readiness
to start cofinancing the project, a decision on continuing or closing the Credit should have been made
accordingly.  Favorable relationships with the Borrower facilitated the constant restructuring and
pragmatic solutions within the climate of changing national, political, economic and social conditions.
Supervision missions provided well-balanced specialised skills and good continuity of personnel. Twelve
supervision missions were fielded in response to changing circumstances during implementation.
However, IDA supervision could have been more effective and more frequent. But, available resources
were insufficient to carry out extensive supervision. In spite of that, there was a follow up of the project
by the staff of the Resident Mission in Sana'a and short supervision missions, combined with other
projects' visits, were carried out. Due to budgetary reasons, it was not possible to field a full-scale
mission in April 1996 for in-depth supervision of agricultural activities. Serious attempts were made to
deal with critical issues and recommendations were largely within the capability of the PMU to
implement. Continuity was maintained in the follow-up of critical issues; the close working relationships
between IDA, GOY and management team greatly assisted in the partial resolution of problems and
bottlenecks.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
47.        The project objectives and design were overly ambitious regarding what could be achieved
over a seven year implementation period. The Borrower should have recognized that during project
preparation, and proposed a more realistic design. Also, there was a long delay between signing (May
1989), effectiveness (June 1990), and start up of field activities in mid-1995. This delay was mainly the
responsibility of the Government. The Government is now taking measures to shorten the time for
project effectiveness especially in Parliament. Unforeseeable external and internal factors presented
serious challenges to project implementation, to the extent that consideration was given in early 1995 to
project suspension. The project's environment had further deteriorated through serious inflationary
pressures, insecurity, lack of GOY funding and loss of some project transport. Production had dropped
significantly through a decrease in cultivable land (some 30 percent), land disputes and unsatisfactory
changes in tenurial arrangements, power disruption for irrigation pumps and escalating costs of inputs and
cultivation services. The performance of the Borrower was unsatisfactory in the first four years of the
project because of the political situation, after which it improved. Implementation, however, began to
improve later in 1995, assisted by improving landlord/tenant relationships and controls on inflation. Area
cultivated began to show positive trends and farmers showed support for the spate irrigation and sand
dune fixation components. The Borrower is to be complimented on concentrating project resources
where farmer response was positive, and where the farmers were ready to participate in the construction
and maintenance of some of the project works.
48.       Project management performed credibly under difficult conditions; however, Government's
performance on provision of recurrent budgets remained unsatisfactory. This had a particularly serious
effect on agricultural extension services, which should have played a leading role in easing the disruption
of the land tenure problems. Government procedures for procurement were complex and caused
unacceptable delays. It was later agreed to give authority to the PMU for direct purchases up to
US$200,000 and up to US$1 million to MAWR. As a result, procurement improved substantially during
the last two years of project implementation.
49.        Given the exceedingly difficult project environment up to 1994, the cooperation between the
Government and IDA was beneficial in turning the project around, achieving positive results in relation to



12
development objectives. The spate irrigation program in particular will ensure additional benefits to a
wider segment of the beneficiaries than envisaged in the SAR. With a few exceptions, the Government
has complied satisfactorily with the legal covenants, as specified in the Development Credit Agreement.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
50.       The project objective of consolidating and expanding developments in Wadi Hadramawt so
as to ensure sustainable agricultural production has been partially achieved when considering that the
spate irrigation development was highly successful exceeding by far SAR expectations: some 4,000 ha
against an SAR's target of 2,700 ha. The experience gained in this component is replicable and provides
a basis for the development of policies for cost sharing, currently under review. Flood control, sand dune
fixation works and nurseries were also satisfactory, given the late start of the implementation program.
However, the principal disappointment has been the non-implementation of the groundwater irrigation
development program (para 8) due to factors beyond the control of the project (para 34).
51.       The project also met the main objective of establishing the institutional framework for
agricultural/irrigation development in the area. Facilities have been constructed to a high level and
should now be in a position to operate effectively, pending stable security in the area. Agricultural
research has delivered varietal and cultural recommendations, which already are showing significant
benefits at field level. Field demonstrations have clearly had an impact on farmers. The effect of
extension is less clear, but, should the extension centres be staffed with competent agents, and recurrent
budgets are forthcoming, the overall prognosis would be satisfactory.  Success in institutional
strengthening, both staff numbers and competence, has been considerable. There has been substantial
investment in human capital, which must now be deployed to build upon the achievement already made.
Extension progress, however, remains uncertain by lack of transport and operating budgets.
52.       The project has provided a good physical infrastructure and developed a valuable
management resource capability, gained experience in demand-driven spate irrigation development, and
achieved positive, albeit short-term, recovery of farm  production.  But, although some project
achievements have generally been satisfactory, the full impact of the investment has not yet been realized.
The sustainability of the project is now a major challenge and depends on continuing funding for flood
control measures, timely and adequate recurrent budget for research/extension and more autonomy for
PMU operations. The Supervision missions of May 1995 and April 1996 rated the project performance in
relation to development objective as unsatisfactory. However, given the critical problems, beyond the
control of the Government or the project and the actual performance of the spate irrigation development
program as indicated above, and particularly meeting the targets of the restructured project, the overall
project outcome is rated satisfactory, confirming the rating given in the last Supervision Report (June
1997).
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
53.       The future operations of the project face a number of challenges, including: (i) the complex
process of the transition from the controlled system into a largely private agricultural sector; (ii) the
current national budgetary/financial constraints under the GOY economic reform and restructuring
program that could result in a serious limitation to national funding of future recurrent costs needed to
achieve the project's sustainability; and (iii) the need for an efficient institutional and coordination
mechanism to enhance complementarity between the project's future operations and other agricultural
and rural development projects in Wadi Hadramawt.



13
54.       To meet these challenges, the following measures were proposed by the mission and
discussed with MAI, the PMU and IDA Resident Mission in Yemen with the understanding that these
measures would be pursued in the future by the GOY: (i) analysing and designing appropriate
computerized land registration systems, preparing appropriate maps for land titling and surveys and
establishing a general information system for computerizing land titles and information in the area, as
envisaged in the Southern Governorates Project; (ii) encouraging further involvement of the private sector
in certain project operations, in particular importing and marketing agricultural inputs, nursery
management and veterinary services; (iii) examining the possibility of establishing a Regional
Agricultural Development Authority for Wadi Hadramawt. The Authority could coordinate, supervise
and re-orient the activities of agricultural and rural development projects in Wadi Hadramawt, with
particular emphasis on facilitating the settlement of displaced farmers, shifting the focus in agricultural
research and extension from large (state) farms to the emerging small farms; (iv) extending project
activities under alternative financing mechanisms (Southern Governorates Project, NEFRP AFESD
Project, and possible EC funding), particularly with respect to spate irrigation/flood control and
desertification, given the complex and external (to the project) circumstances that faced the project's
start-up and early implementation; and (v) further stabilisation of the research/extension, including inputs,
is critical if the full benefit of the project investment is to be realized
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
55.       The following are the main lessons learned:
-  Original project objectives were ambitious and, therefore, project design became complex.
Fewer objectives and simple project design should characterize future investments.
-  Project cofinancing arrangements were not fully developed during project appraisal and
prompt action to restructure the project was not taken when the outlook for cofinancing
became uncertain. To reduce project implementation risks, core components of the project
should be included in IDA financing and not be left in the hands of cofinanciers. Timely
action should be taken to restructure project when uncertainties relating to financing
arrangements become apparent.
3  The extent of disruption in farming activities resulting from radical changes in land tenure
arrangeiments were underestimated at project restructuring. Social assessment of the project
would provide a more reliable basis for restructuring when radical shifts take place in land
tenure arrangements.
*  Farmers' participation in the implementation and operation and maintenance of several
project components proved beneficial for completion as well as sustainability of several
project components (e.g. spate irrigation and flood control works, sand dune fixation and
forestry). Since participatory involvement takes time, it should be instituted at the early
stages of the project.
*  IDA's flexibility in processing procurement and close coordination between the Bank's
Resident Mission in Sana'a and PMU facilitated timely procurement of essential goods and
services and satisfactory project completion.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2045-YEM)
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related IDA Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4A:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated Actual
Table 4B:   Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Credit Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   IDA Resources: Missions
ANNEXES
A. Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B. Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
C. Economic Re-Evaluation



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievementofobjectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(1a)        (09)          09)           00a
Macro policies                      E            El            El
Sector policies                     Fl           F                          EE 
Financial objectives                El           E            E             E
Institutional development           El            E           El            [
Physical objectives                 El           [E           El            El
Poverty reduction                   El                        El            El
Gender issues                          l         El           EE 
Other social objectives             El           FE           El            El
Environmental objectives               l                       EE  l        E
Public sector management            E            [             E            E
Private sector development          E            E             El
Other (specify)                     El           El            El           El
B. Proectsustainabli                Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
(09)         09)          (la-)
El    El                   E;
C. Bankperforman                satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(63)         03)          (a
Identification                       l         [E 
Preparation assistance            El          EE
Appraisal                         El           [             E
Supeivision                       E                          El



16
D. Borrowerperforance              satisfactor    Satisfactor    Deficient
09)           (6;0        (19)
Preparation                                    [[E
Implementation                     [7E ]
Covenant compliance                            [E]            E
Operation (if applicable)                       [7 ]]
Hfighly                                      Highiy
E. Assessmentofoutcome            satisfactorv   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactorv
0a)         VE)              OR)             09)
z   [Ez    CD



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose             Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. Wadi Hadramawt          To build up infrastructure and      1976               Closed
Agricultural Development  institutions, carry out pilot
Project (WHADP) I       developments in area of the
(Cr.615-YDR)            follow-up WHADP II.
2. Tihamna Agricultural    To provide irrigation, village water  1978             Closed
Development Project II    supplies, extension, sand dune
(Cr.805-YAR)            stabilization, infrastructure and
development of State farms for
agricultural development in Wadi
Rima.
3. Tihama Agricultural     To increase agricultural             1979              Closed
Development Project III    production in Wadi MAWR by
(Cr.880-YAR)            effectively using spate flows and
helping recharge the aquifer;
strengthening agricultural support
services (research, extension
credit), building feeder roads, and
providing potable water to rural
poor.
4. Tihama Development      To support the Second                1980               Closed
Project IV              Agricultural Development in Wadi
(Cr.978-YAR)            Rima through provision of surface
irrigation in the form of permanent
diversioni structures.
5. Wadi Hadramawt          To increase agricultural             1983              Closed
Agricultural Development  production, raise farmer incomes,
Project II (Cr.1346-YDR)   correct falling water table via use
of deep-lying aquifers, provide
farm machinery and technical
assistance.
6. Central Highlands       To improve farm incomes through      1984              Closed
Agricultural Development  production and productivity
Project (Cr.1453-YAR)   increases, provide potable water.
7. Agricultural Research and   To strengthen agricultural research  1985          Closed
Extension Project       and extension capacity in Central
(Cr.1557-YDR)           Highlands, Tropical Lowlands,
Southem Uplands regions.



18
Following operations
1. Tihama V                The project is a follow-up to       1986        December 31, 1995
(Cr.1667-YAR)           Tihama I-IV, designed to ensure                 (Irrigation works only
sustainability by establishing                  and on exceptional
regional extension, veterinary                  basis. Extended to
O&M services for the Tihama                     April 30, 1996).
Region and supporting women in
development. The project would
improve utilization of available
land, water and human resources
in Tihama Region and help
substitute for agricultural imports.
2. Southern Regional       To increase agricultural             1987              Closed
Agricultural Development  productivity and farmer income in
Project (Cr.1772-YAR)   Southern Region through
strengthening agricultural services
in extension, credit and input
supplies, assist O&M of project
infrastructure and water, raise
technical capability of staff,
provide assistance to women
farmers.
3. Northern Regional       To improve agricultural              1988              Closed
Agricultural Development  productivity through: (i) improved
Project (CR.1886-YAR)    agricultural services, (ii) better
land management, (iii) improved
irrigation and agricultural practices
and improved health/nutrition,
establish regional extension and
O&M to ensure sustainability.
4. Eastern Region          To provide extension and research    1989             On-going
Agricultural Development  services, irrigation management,               (Expected to close on
Project (Cr.1983-YAR)   institution building to improve                   December 31, 1997)
agricultural productivity and
farmer incomes in Marib
Governorate, particularly area
around Marib Dam.
5. Agricultural Sector     To create within MAWR the            1992             On-going
Management Support      management basis for modern
Project (Cr.2299-YEM)   agricultural sector, and to
strengthen agricultural research.
Also to improve general
operations of MAWR.
6. Land and Water          To begin a national programme to    1992              On-going
Conservation Project    gain control over land and water
(Cr.2373-YEM)           resources.



19
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification a'                                                       October 1987
Preparation'1                                                          February 1988
Pre-Appraisal                                                          July 1988
Final Appraisal                                                        February 1989
Negotiations                                     May 5, 1989           May 9-14, 1989
Board presentation                               June 13, 1989         June 22, 1989
Signing                                                                October 30, 1989
Effectiveness it                                 March 5, 1990         June 15, 1990
July 5, 1990
Restructuringc                                                         March 18, 1994
Midterm review (if applicable)
Project completion                               June 30, 1996         June 30, 1997
Loan closing                                     June30,1997           September 30, 1997
' Identified and prepared with assistance from the FAO/CP.
b/  The original date for effectiveness, March 5, 1990, could not be met due to delays in finalizing a statement by the
MAWR on O&M of irrigation works in the project area.
et  GOY approved the restructuring in April 1994.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91     FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate         0.4      2.5      5.0       9.2      11.0     12.0
Actual I                    -       0.2      0.2       0.4      0.9      3.0       4.6      6.2
Actal as % of estimate     -         8        4        4         8        25       38       52
Date of final disbursement:   23 January 1998 (US$1,694)                                          J
at  SDR4.0 million cancelled as of 27 September 1995. About SDR1.0 million remained to be cancelled.



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators   Unit       Planned         Planned          Actual          Comments
in SAR                (SAR)       ~~~~~~~~Restructuring
in SAR               (SAR)           ~~~~~~~~(1992)
I. Irrigation Development
(i) Groundwater
- Area                            ha          3,025           1,450             -         Relevant AFSED
- Tubewells (50-60 I/sec)         No.           59              -                         funds were not
- Tubewells (25-30 I/sec)         No.           -               59                        made available
(ii) Water Supply                                                                          before Credit
- Conveyance pipelines            km            65              -               -         closure
- Lined canals                    km            59               5              -
-Unlined canals                   km           116              -               -
- Pipe distrib. networks          km            22               5
- Associated structures           No.         3,525            399              -
- Pumps                           No.           -               20              20        Procured but still
to be distributed.
(Wii) On-Farm Improvement
- Land improvement                ha          2,125           1,020             -         As point (i) above
- Farm sheds                      No.           60              -               -
-Farm roads                       km            24              25              -
- Access roads                    km            -          20 (Proposed          5        The remaining
in 1995)                     15 km to be
included in the
NEFRP.
-Floods bunds                     km            16               7              -
(iv) Spate Improv. Works
- Rehabilit existing 7 schemes    ha          2,700           2,700           2,700
- Additional Area                 ha            -               -             1,350       Additional area
11. Agricultural Development
(i) ResearchWExtension
- Research/Ext. centres           unit          -                4               4
- Training centre                 unit          -                I               I
- Training  - local              p.m.           60              42               17
- overseas              p.m.          60        48 Res.+48 Ext.  73 Res.+48 Ext.
- Add. Staff - Res. scientists    No.            3               2              -
- Res. assistant        No.           -                2              -
- SMS                   No.            4              -                1
- FEA                   No.            6               4               7
- Women ext.            No.            1               2               1
- TA (FAO) - Weed control        p.m.           -                I                                         l
- Soil improv.         p.m.                            I                                         l
- Chemical handling    p.m.           -                I              -
- Rehabilitation of date palms    ha           275
- Fruit tree nursery              unit           1               1               I
(ii) Agricultural Machinery        set     Various equip.   Various equip.       -         Only
200 knapsack
sprayers and three
tractors were
procured.
(iii) Input Supply
- Fertilizers                    tons          1,300           595              ...       Being provided
- Pesticides        .             kg          7,810           5,400            ...        by the private
- Seeds (potatoes)               tons           365            590              ...       sector
- Bags                            No.        351,000            -
- Boxes                           No.        132,000



21
Key Implementation Indicators    Unit       Planned                           Actual          Comments
in SAR                 (SAR)       ~~~~~~~~Restructuring
in SAR                (SAR)           ~~~~~~~~(1992)
(iv) Yield
- Dates                          ton/ha         -                -               4.5        3.0 ton/ha without
project
- Sorghum                        ton/ha         -                -               0.8        0.6 ton.ha without
project
IIL Project Management
(i) PMU                             pyr        Same as          Same as          Same as
Phasc II        Phase II         Phase II
(ii) TA (FAO) - Irrig. Engineer     p.m.            36             22               28
- Irrig. Agronomist     p.m.            24              20               12
- Horticulturist        p.m.            18              6                9
- Consult. assignment   p.m.            56              50              20        Includ. Farm
Manag. (8) and
UN.V. for M&E
(12).
(iii) Consultant Engineers          p.m.           150             188              78
(iv) Civil Works - Guest house      unit          -                -                 I        Includ. Shed &
fencing to replace
office space.
- Offices               m2            -               400              -         Replaced by guest
house.
(v) Training   -Local               p.m.         { 156              60               3
- Overseas             p.m.                            48              68
IV. Irrigation Maintenance Unit
(i) Construction Equipment           set     Various equip.    Various equip.    Various equip.   80% of the equip.
procured.
(ii) Other Equipment                 set     Various equip.    Various equip.    Various equip.   Canal flow meters
not procured.
(iii) Training - Overseas           p.m.            24              12              -
(iv) Additional Staff               No. of        -                30               20
staff
V. Forestry/Sand Dune Stabilizat.
(i) Flood Control                   km            -                 11              11
(ii) Soil Erosion                   sites         -                 I
(iii) Dune Fixation                 km            -                 15               8        GOY will
complete this
work with own
funds
(iv) TA (FAQ)  - Dune fixation      p.m.          -                 3
- Bird contr. exp.     p.m.          -                 3
- Woman extension      p.m.          -                 2               -
- UN vol.              p.m.          -                36               2         Local consultant.
- Bee honey exp.       p.m.          -                 2               (3)       See Proj. manag.
(v) Training   - Local              p.w.          -                40               12
- Overseas long        p.m.          -                16               24
- Overseas short       p.m.          -                -                27
(vi) Nursery Building Expansion      m2           -               400              400        15,000 seedlings
produced in
1996/97.
(vii) Equipment - Extension          set          -                 I                I
-Electric. pump        No.           -                 I                I



22
VI. Pilot Land Registration
TA (FAO) - Surveyor             p.m.          -                4              -        Taken care under
- Legal LRS expert    p.m.          -                4              -        the new
- Computer/GIS        p.m.          -                4              -        IDA/IFAD project
- Flood control       p.m.          -                3              -        (Southern Gover.
- Land tenure         p.m.          -                6              -        Rur. Dev Project)
- Sociologist         p.m.          -                2              -



23
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.   Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                Estimated                          Actual
Not identified at appraisal
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study               at appraisal/redefined         Status            Impact of study
1. Groundwater assessment    To assess the groundwater   Cancelled because  The report was
potential in the Masila   similar work was      completed by the end
catchment.                carried out by GOY    of 1997.
and CIDA.
2.Displaced farmers resetting  To prepare a separate  Not implemented.      Its main objective was
project for resettling the                      achieved through the
displaced farmers in the                        initiation of the IDA
Southern Govemorates.                           project: Southem
Govemorates Rural
Development Project.
3. Supplementary Study for    Reassess the groundwater    Completed in      Confirmed availability
Groundwater (AFSED)       potentional in Wadi       December 1996         of groundwater for
Hadramawt (not foreseen                         project areas.
at appraisal)
4. Soil and Water Study     Reassess soil suitability  Completed in August   Confirmed suitability
(IDA)                     and availability of water  1992                 of soil and availability
resources (included at                          of water resources.
restructuring)



24
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual/latest estimate (US$M) a/
Local       Foreign      Total        Local       Foreign       Total
costs       costs                     costs        costs
Item
Civil Works              8.2         15.2          23.4         0.4          1.6         2.0
Input Supply             0.3          2.4           2.7          ...         0.2         0.2
Vehicles and             0.5          9.0           9.5         0.2          2.4         2.6
Equipment b/
Technical Assistance     0.4          3.3           3.7         1.3         2.0          3.3
& Training
Recurrent Exp.           1.8          0.7           2.5         -            -
TOTAL                   11.2         30.6          41.8         1.9 a/       6.2         8.1
a/ Data provided by PMU.
b/ Including recurrent expenditure.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source                         Local      Foreign      Total        Local       Foreign      Total
costs      costs                     costs       costs
IDA                              -         12.0        12.0            -          6.2        6.2
KFAED                            1.8       10.1        11.9                       -           -
AFESD                            -          8.5         8.5                 -                 -
YAR Government                   9.4        -           9.4            1.9        -          1.9
TOTAL                           11.2       30.6        41.8           1.9         6.2        8.1



25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Unit                SAR Estimates               ICR Estimates
A. Project Beneficiaries
- Farm Families                               No.                        620                         810
B. Spate Improvement Works                     ha                      2,700                       4,050
C. Groundwater Development                     ha                      3,025
(1,450 after restructuring)
D. Cropping Intensity                          %                         130                         100
E. Incremental Production
- Wheat HYV                                   ton                      3,340                          -
- Sorghum grains                              ton                       1,520                      1,100
- Sorghum fodder                              ton                       n.a.                       3,900
- Sesame                                      ton                         79                          84
- Spices                                      ton                         -                          340
- Dates                                       ton                       n.a.                         932
F. Economic Rate of Return  '%                                          13.1                        10.6
(11.5 at restructuring)
/ Remarks: As indicated in the text and schematically presented in Table 5, the implementation of the groundwater development
programme did not materialize. On the contrary, spate improvement works were very successful and covered an area of 4,050
ha well above SAR target (2,700 ha) with an increase of 150%. Incremental quantifiable benefits included in the ex-post
economic analysis of the project are therefore derived from the total spate irrigation area as indicated in Appendix C, Tables 6 to
7. Economic prices have been used and are shown in Appendix C, Table 5. Data on farm models was not yet available at the
time of the ICR mission. It is however estimated that average farn income in the spate irrigation area has increased about 50%
over the without project situation. Details on ERR calculations are given in Appendix C, Table 8.



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
[Yemen Republic]
[Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project]
Original    Revised
Covenant Present  fulfilment  fulfilment        Description of
Agreement     Section      type     status     date        date             covenant                   Comments
Credit     Section 3.02(b)   10       C       03/01/90             Establish Irrigation        --
Maintenance Unit.
Credit     Section 3.03      11     SOON                           Ensure availability of fertilizer, Private sector is supplying
chemicals, and seeds for all    some of the Region's needs.
farmers in the project area.
Credit     Section 4.01(b)    I        C                           Fumish certified copy of annual -
financial statements.
Credit     Schedule 4,      5, 10    NYD                           Irrigated lands developed under -
Section I                                               the Project to be allocated to
beneficiaries in accordance with
agreed criteria/ priority.
Credit     Schedule 4,     10, 5,9,    C                           For ensuring proper execution   Activities of PIU hindered by
Section 2         7                                     of Action Plan for Resettlement the lack of local budget.
of Beneficiaries, Borrower shall
establish and maintain PIU with
organization, staffing and TORs
satisfactory to the Association.
Credit     Schedule 4,       10      NYD                           Ensure that lease agreement    -
Section 3                                               with farmers allocated land
under the Project can be used as
security for loans from
agricultural lending institutions.
Credit     Schedule 4,     12, 10     CP      06/30/90             Implement measures to improve -
Section 4                                               operations of the MRS.
Credit     Schedule 4,      11, 7     CP                           Borrower will facilitate early    Only 26 wells drilled and five
Section 7                                               completion of MAWR-financed equipped facilitate
programme for drilling      continuation of drilling
irrigation wells.           programme.
Credit     Schedule 4,      7,9       C       05/15/94             Commence socio-economic     Being implemented under
Section 8                                               survey/ needs assessment of    PHRD grant funding in the
farmers affected by Prime   context of the preparation of
Ministerial Decree No. 65.  the Southem Govemorates
Agr. Project.
Status:  C      - Complied with
CD     - Compliance after Delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP     - Complied with Partially
NYD   - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
1. Accounts/audit                                                 8. Indigenous people
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries      9. Monitoring, review and reporting
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds                          10. Implementation
4. Counterpart funding                                            11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency      resource allocation
6. Environmental covenants                                        12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory
7.Involuntary resettlement                                           /institutional action
13. Other



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title        I    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable operational manual statements observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned                  Revised                Actual
project cycle                                                                               l
Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to             n.a.        n.a.                                54.8      95.1
appraisal
Appraisal                  n.a.        n.a.                                29.9      65.7
Negotiations through       n.a.        n.a.                                 4.0       8.3
Board approval
Supervision                n.a.        n.a.                                87.8     212.6
Completion                 n.a.        n.a.                                 8.0      31.2 a/
TOTAL                   201.4      571.7           n.a.        n.a.      184.5     412.9
a?  ICR mission estimate.



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                           Number                   Specialized     Implemen-       Develop-
project cycle         Month/            of       Days in      staff skilis      tation          ment         Types of
year          persons      field     represented a!      status       objectives     problems b/
Identification ,        October 1987                                                n.a.           n.a.           n.a.
Preparationc   =       February 1988                                                n.a.           n.a.           na.
Pre-Appraisal              July 1988                                                n.a.           n.a.           n.a.
Appraisal              February 1989       4                    AE, A, IE, E        n.a.           n.a            n.a.
Supervision:
October 1989       4d/        14       AE. IE, L, FM         I              1
2                         June 1990       4d/        22       AE,IE,FA,A            2              2              P
3                   November 1990         2d/                    AE, IE             4              3            P, F, T
4                    June/July 1991       6d/       n.a.      A, IE, A, CS,         4              3            P, F, T
WS, AC
5 (Restructuring)    July/August 1992     5          26       AE, IE, AN, A,
SE
6                   Feb./March 1993       1          14            AE               3              3           F, E, TA
7                  March/April 1994      2           16          AE, IE             2              2          P, F, T, E
8                        May 1995        2            6           A,IE              U              U           F, TA, P
9                   September 1995        1           5            IE               S              U             F, T
10                        April 1996       1           4            IE               S              U              F
11                        June 1997       2            9          AE, IE             S              S             n.a.
ICR                   June/July 1997       3          16         AE, E, A            S              S             n.a
AE: Agricultural Economist; IE: Irrigation  Engineer; L: Livestock  Specialist; FM: Farm  Machinery  Specialist;
FA: Financial Specialist; A: Agronomist; CS: Conservation  Specialist; WS: Wid. Specialist; AC: Accountant;
AN: Anthropologist; SE: Socio-Economist.
P: Procurement Progress; F: Financial Performance; T: Training Progress; E: Environmental Aspects; TA: Technical
Assistance.
Carried out by FAO/CP.
The same mission also carried out the supervision of WH-II.
e/    The same mission also carried out the preparation of ICR for the ERADP (Cr. 19830).



ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2045-YEM)
MISSION'S MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (WHP 111)
(CREDIT 2045-YEM)
Aide-M&moire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Mission
A. Introduction
l.           A mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme' visited the Republic of
Yemen from June21 to July7, 1997 to prepare Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for the
above-mentioned project, as well as the Eastem Region Agricultural Development Project (ERADP)
(Cr. 1983-YAR). This document is the Aide-Memoire for the former project.
2.           The mission worked in close collaboration with the Director-General and staff of the
project. Field visits were made to several project locations in Hadramawt Govemorate during the period
from June 25-29, 1997. The mission is especially grateful to H.E. the Minister of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR ) for his support to the mnission. Special thanks are due to Mr. F.A. Mujawar, Deputy
Minister, MAWR, for his views and suggestions. The mission records thanks to Mr. Ahmed Alawi
Kreisan, Director-General of the project, Dr. Mohammed Ismail, CTA, and Dr. Awadelkarim, Farming
Systems Economist, and other project staff for assistance in gathering and discussing the necessary
information and data, and organizing field visits. The mission is grateful to Mr. Abdul Malik Al-Thawr,
Director Agricultural Planning Division, MAWR, and Mr. Abdul Hafez Al-Athwari, Monitoring and
Evaluation Section at MAWR for their assistance. The mission gratefully acknowledges the substantive
contribution and logistical support of Mr. Mahdi, FAO Representative in Yemen. A wrap-up meeting,
chaired by the Deputy Minister of MAWR, was held on July 6. The mission also had a debriefing session
with the Ministry of Planning.
3.            Preliminary impressions and findings of the mission are presented below and are subject
to modification, following detailed analysis.
B. Background
Origin
4.           The project was initiated after the encouraging findings of a detailed reassessment under
WHP II of groundwater resources, including a review and updating of existing information, establishment
of a monitoring programme, and the construction and predictive use of a model to review groundwater
potential to help determiine options for further agricultural development in the area. The project was, thus.
envisaged as a continuation of WHP II.
Funding
5.           The project was prepared in February 1988, appraised a year later. and presented to IDA's
Board on June 22, 1989. Subsequently, an IDA credit consisting of SDR 9.3 million (US$12.0 million)
was signed on October 30, 1989 and became effective on June 15, 1990. The credit. to be disbursed over
Consisting of Messrs. F.K. Bishay (Mission Leader. Senior Economist). R. Suppa (Agricultural
Economist) and J.C. Macartney (Agronomist. Consultant).



2
a period of seven years (closing date has now been extended to September 30, 1997), covered about 29%
of the total project cost estimated at USS41.8 million. A cofinancing arrangement included a loan of
US$11.9 mnillion from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development(KFAED ), a loan of
US$8.5 million from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) and a Government
of Yemen (GOY) contribution of US$9.4 million.
6.            Actual project cost is estimated at about USS7.5 million, and includes IDA credit of
US$6.2 million and GOY contribution of US$1 3 million. No disbursement took place from either
KFAED or AFESD loans. Considering that an amount of SDR 4.0 million was cancelled from the [DA
credit in September 1995 and that a further SDPR 1.0 rmillion could also be cancelled, overall IDA credit
disbursement is currentlv estimated at about 47% of the original. or 88% of the reduced commirtment.
Objectives
7.           The main objectives of the project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to
consolidate and expand developments in Wadi Hadramawt, so as to ensure sustainable agricultural
production and to improve the income and living standards of project beneficiaries, while paying attention
to conserving the environment. This would be achieved through: (i) consolidating developments in the
Phase II areas; (ii) providing dependable irrigation water supplies through tubewell development to about
3,025 ha in 17 additional areas which are mostly contiguous with areas developed under Phase IIL
(iii) improving works for spate irrigation for 2,700 ha; (iv) providing incremental input required to raise
the level of cropping intensity in the total project area (6,250 ha) to 130%; (v) expanding agricultural
research and extension services; (vi) establishing an Irrigation Maintenance Unit (IMU) in Wadi
Hadramawt; and (vii) providing training and technical assistance personnel for developing irrigation
system and for improving agricultural productivity.
C. Implementation Experience and Results
Project Start-up and Restructuring: A Historical Perspective
8.           The project was declared effective on June 15, 1990. However, the actual start-up of the
project's physical implementation was significantly delayed to early 1995, due to mostly extemal (to the
project) factors. The following is a brief historical perspective of the project's eventual restructuring and
start-up of implementation.
9.           The project start-up was seriously delayed in view of the uncertainties caused by the Gulf
War of 1990-91 and was firther delayed due to the Government's revised policy on land tenure system
following the national reunification of the country. This policy directly affected the originally designed
project areas. Under it, land and property in the Southern Governorates, presently held by the
Government, are being returned to their original private owners. The tenant farmers displaced are to be
compensated by allocating up to 5 feddans (about 2 ha.) of alternative land. The owners are also
requested to pay for improvements to the land financed by the tenants. With the handing back of the land
to its original owners, the Government decided that development under the project would be concentrated
on publicly owned land. i.e. on new areas outside those originally designated.
10.          The Government's decision to shift the project area necessitated a restructuring, and IDA
agreed to the Government's request. Thus, in July/August 1992. an IDA project restructuring mission
visited Yemen, and in November 1992 proposed a restructured project that addressed the changing
conditions within the new socio-economic environrment in the Southern Governorates. The restructured
project was approved on March 18, 1994, and endorsed by GOY on April 11, 1994. Details are given in
para. 12 below.



I1.          The civil war erupted in Mlav 1994 and further delayed the project's start-up of physical
implementation by almost a year. In May 1995, a WB supervision mission agreed with the Government
on further scaling down of the project's activities, in view of the lost time and to be able to close the
project on time. T'he field activities started in 1995 with the arrival of project equipment, and gained
momentum in 1996.
Restructured Project's Components
12.           Under the restructuring process, the original SAR project components were revised with
the view to: (i) scaling down the overall size of the project to take into account the fact that the KFAED
loan (totalling US$11.9 million equivalent) was not available at this stage: (ii) scaling down the
groundwater irrigation component (from 3,025 ha proposed in SAR to 1450 ha); (iii) strengthening and re-
designing the research and extension component to reorient their emphasis from state and large
co-operative based farms to the needs of smaller farmers working independently; and (iv) scaling down
the farm machinery, input supply and irritation maintenance unit to meet the reNised scale of the project
and changing input and output pricing system.
13.          The restructured project components included the following: (i) irrigation development,
including: (a) groundwater irrigation development; (b) spate improvement and flood control works;
(ii) agricultural development, including : (a) agricultural research; (b) agricultural extension; (c) forestry
and sand dune fixation; (d) fruit tree nursery; (e) farm machinery; (f) agricultural inputs; (g) irrigation
maintenance unit; (iii) project management (including technical assistance and training); (iv) pilot land
registration system; and (v) studies.
Achievements by Component
Irrigation Develolpment
(i)           Groundwater Irrigation Development
14.          The main objective under the SAR was to construct 59 tubewells to develop about
3,000 ha under irrigation. This objective was scaled doNvn under the project's restructuring in 1992 to
cover only 1,450 ha The sub-component was not implemented, due to the unavailability of funds
earmarked for this purpose by the AFESD. The water supply sub-component, drastically reduced under
the restructured project, was also not implemented. However, following the recommendations of the IDA
supervision mission in 1995, the project procured 20 irrigation pumps that remain to be distributed,
pending MAWR and IDA advice.
(ii)          Spate Irrigation, Flood Control and On-Farm Development
15.           Despite the uncertainties that prevailed over the cofinancing development funds for the
core project component - groundwater to be funded by AFSED - the PMU is to be complimented on
diverting its irrigation construction capability to the spate irrigation component. IDA supervision missions
supported and encouraged the identification of new sites and the maximization of areas comunanded.
Original targets of improvement to 2,700 ha over 23 sites have been exceeded to provide
rehabilitation/new structures for over 90 sites, covering a total area of about 4000 ha.
16.           Spate irrigation improvements provided the major quantifiable benefits of the two-year
implementation period. The analysis of benefits will be carried out in the ICR, but preliminary findings
indicate that returns are attractive.
17.           Out of the targeted 20 km of roads, 5 km were completed: the remainder are to be
constructed under the National Emergency Flood Control Project.



4
Agricultural Development
(i)           Agricultural Research
18.           The stated objective of the Seiyun Regional Research Station is to develop improved
technologies that will contribute to increased productivity and sustain the natural resource base. With
project funding, this capability was to be further developed through concentration on off-station trials and
demonstrations. Four research/extension centres were constructed to facilitate more effective coverage.
The station has had previous support from the IDA Agricultural Support Services Project, through which a
research strategy and annual programme of work had been developed. The project's research component
has further developed the institutional and organisational capability, and a rational progranmme of work.
based on priority lines of research, is now operational. The programme focuses on crop improvement.
water efficiency, integrated pest management and the supply of analytical services to farmers. Positive
-and acceptable (to the farmer) recommendations are being prepared for extension services.
19.           Local selections and introduction of wheat High Yielding Varieties (HYV) from ICARDA
have been field tested and promising material subjected to verification trials. Two HYVs with salt
tolerance (Seiyun I and Sowary) are now ready for release and it is predicted that uptake will be rapid. as
the traditional variety Kaigansona has broken down to leaf rust. Some 40-60% increases in yield have
been achieved on farm fields, with optimum cultural practices the varieties have a potential of 4-6 MT/ha.
Research continues on the field testing of five salt-tolerant strains resulting from crosses between AHGAF
(an introduced HYV) and local types.
20.           Onion is the most popular cash crop and is well suited to local conditions. Markets
(including export) are strong and prices are attractive. Interest is being shown by foreign seed houses for
seed production. Selections within the now mixed local onion variety Baefeem have shown encouraging
yield performance and food storage quality. Simple mass selection has produced two strains, giving about
25% yield increase up to 50 MT/ha. These varieties will be released next season.
21.           Packages of cultural practices have been developed for wheat, onion, potato, sorghum and
tomatoes, and extensions bulletins are being prepared. A noteworthy achievement has been the field work
on establishing optimum crop water requirements and irrigation schedules. This programme, assisted
through the irrigation agronomist TA, has shown that about 30% reduction in water application to potatoes
and 50% to onions had no significant effect on yield. With increasing pressure on groundwater and
salinity problems, these results should have high priority in the extension messages.
(ii)          Agricultural Extension
22.           Field operations were able to recommence in 1995, but could not be considered fully
operational until the arrival of the project transport facilities (10 vehicles and 25 motor cycles) in
July 1996. The system used is a modification of the T&V. Three days of each week are given to farner
visits, and farmer ratio at present is reported to be about 1:200. Intensity of the farm visits should
improve when the extension centres are handed over and staffed, which is scheduled before the
1997-98 crop season.
23.           The extension programme is formulated by a joint research/extension technical
conmmittee. The extension services have their own Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) covering livestock.
plant protection, mechanization, horticulture, rural development for women and general agronomy. This
specialist cadre assists in the necessary and continuing dialogue with the research officers.
24.           Some packages of practices have been developed and refined under the project, covering
specific recommendations. in particular: varietal and water application for wheat. potatoes. onion and



5
tomatoes. Extension focus is through field demonstration (seeds and inputs provided by the project) and'
individual farmer follow-up. The recommendations are sound, low cost and profitable: acceptance rates
are reported to be high. There is no monitoring and evaluation capability within the service and this is
realised to be its main weakness. Operating funds have been received but often late which has affected the
schedule of fami visits. After September 1997, funding will be a Government responsibility and will
largely dictate the sustainability of operation.
25.           An  extension/research  linkage  was  first  developed  in  1985  through  the
Research/Extension Project and is currently operated through the Research/Extension Unit within the
Research Department. Monthly meetings are held to formulate extension programmes. Demonstrations
are established by both cadres; and SMSs attend farmer meetings. Joint field visits provide for problem
identification and priority setting for research inputs. The research/extension linkage appears satisfactorv.
(iii)         Forestry and Sand Dune Fixation
26.           A sand dune stabilization unit was set up by seconding staff from the Research and
Extension Department, and providing transport (8 vehicles and 5 motor cycles) and equipment through,
project funds. A forest nursery (Al-Qat'n) was established to provide for the production of suitable
species. and training programmes (8 staff) were introduced. Local forestry experts contributed to the
development of windbreaks and sand dune fixation plan.
27.           The production of nursery seedlings increased from 10,000 to 15,000 during 1996-97.
The first pilot stage comprised the establishment of five windbreaks protecting some 75 ha The
expansion phase is now being implemented under drip and sprinkler irrigation. When completed, partial
protection will have been given to about 6,000 ha of farm land. It was noted that farmers' support and
participation in this component is good; water, and in some cases piping, are being provided by the
beneficiaries.
28.           The forestry research programme concentrates on providing base data upon which sand
dune fixation techniques can be developed for field evaluation. Meteorological data (wind speed and
direction) and recording of sand movements provided the basis for planning possible control measures.
29.           Species suitable for shelter belts have been identified and field tested. This material is
being produced in the forest department nursery (Al Swairy) and released free of charge for sand dune
fixation pilot areas.
(iv)          Fruit Tree Nursery
30.           The main objective of this sub-component was that the project would support the
promotion of fruit orchards and. support the expansion of the fruit tree nursery established under Phase II.
Seedling prices, however, are below production costs which represent, at this stage, a disincentive for the
private sector to play a major role in this field as originally planned.
(v)           Agricultural Machinery
31.           Agricultural machinery procurement was scaled down significantly under the restructured
project. Final procurement included only 2 tractors and 200 knapsack sprayers.
(vi)          Agricultural Inputs
32.           The SAR  target for agricultural inputs included procurement of about 1.300 tons
fertilizers, 8 tons pesticides and 365 tons seeds. Corresponding targets. under the restrucrured project.
were about 600 tons fertilizers. 5.4 tons pesticides and 600 tons seeds. The project was to assist in the



6
procurement of these inputs through short-term credit. with the view to providing essential inputs to
project beneficiaries. The PMU was unable to carry out this task, due to increasing and fluctuating
exchange rates and market distortions. However, during project implementation, farmers were able to
purchase some inputs through the private sector. This approach is in line with the new agricultural policy
being adopted in Wadi Hadramawt to encourage the private sector, following the national reunification.
An integrated pest management programme (IPM) was introduced during last season and aimed at
reducing pesticide application for the control of thrips in onions. The results have been encouraging.
(vii)        Irrigation Maintenance Unit
33.          Construction equipment was procured according to the inventory agreed to in the 1995
restructuring report. The staff of the O&M units have effectively carried out the identification, design
specifications and cost estimations of civil, spate and flood protection works. The organization and
supervision given to the implementation of works carried out by farmers and the advice given to farmers
on the maintenance and supply of spare parts for pumps are satisfactory.
Project Management
34.          The Project Management Unit (PMIU) was transferred directly from WHAP II where its
performance was favourably perceived. The PMU is experienced and leadership is excellent. It has
proved capable of adjusting to ever-changing circumstances, yet maintaining a momentum. The support
role of the CTA and consultants has been highly satisfactory.
35.          The engineering consultancy programmne, which was planned in the SAR to include a total
of 150 p/m, was further increased under the restructured project to 188 p/m, but was not implemented.
36.          Civil works, that were neither foreseen at appraisal (SAR) nor at restructuring, but
completed under this component, included the construction of guest houseloffices (and furniture), vehicle
shed, and fencing the project's headquarters in Seiyun. The implemented training programme under the
component included 68 plm overseas training and 3 p/m local training, or 45% and 65% of the SAR and
the restructured component targets, respectively.
37.          TA was provided under a contract with FAO (USS2.4 million), covering 80 p/m of
consultants services, including a long-term senior Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) and an irrigation
agronomist. Supporting short-term consultants included a horticulturist, farming systems, monitoring and
evaluation experts. A key input to advise on the legal aspects of land tenure issues, arising as a result of
privatisation policies, was not covered as the selected consultant was engaged in another IDA project. The
contract also included responsibility for organizing and implementing the fellowship and a training
programme.
38.          The consultant services were provided in a timely manner and the consultants integrated
well into the project management structure and continue to support the planning and implementation of the
field programme.
39.          A comprehensive training prograrnme was implemented on schedule, including two
Masters fellowships in extension, which will be completed in October 1997, and the incumbents will
rejoin the project. Short-term training was well focused on extension and irrigation technology carried out
in Egypt and Jordan (16 candidates). A further 30 candidates received training in forestrv, crop research.
irrigation, engineering, water monitoring, machinery maintenance and horticulture. Both the Project
Management and trainees reported satisfaction with the training programme's content and organization.



7
Pilot Land Registration Systems
40.           A  pilot registration scheme was proposed by the IDA  Supervision Mission of
November 1992. Funds were reallocated (US$247,000) for consultant services to prepare a separate
project for addressing the total resettlement issue in the Southern Governorates.
41.            Whilst the proposal indicated the concern of IDA, the brief was clearly outside the
technical competence of the project to implement. The issue of land registration is now to be addressed
under the new Southern Govemorate Project (PA-YE-5902) currently being negotiated.
Studies
42.           The project restructuring called for two studies: one to assess groundwater potential in the
Masila catchment, and the other to prepare a separate project for resettling the displaced farmers. The first
study was cancelled because similar work was carried out by GOY and CIDA. The second was also
cancelled, as it is included in the Southern Govemorate's project.
43.            A relevant study was corunissioned by the AFESD, using savings from  Phase II.
A consultant finam was contracted 1996-97 and produced reports entitled: "WH UI Geology and Hydrology
Report" (Vol. 1), and "WH III Soil and Land Classification Studies" (Vol. 2) which were published in
March 1997.
Cost Recovery
44.           Traditionally, payrnent for water is socially unacceptable in the area; consequently a
10% tax was levied on produce marketed throughout the cooperatives. The proposals to introduce a land
bettermnent tax to cover fully O&M costs (legislation was drafted in 1990) were supported at appraisal.
45.            Due to the continuous radical changes in the structure of the land tenure and farming
systems, there is little chance of introducing a cost recovery system. At present, the inputloutput prices
and responsibilities of landlord and tenant are varied and unclear. Until such time as the farming system
stabilises, it will be difficult to apply cost recovery rates. Recent charges for electrically driven pumps
have been increased from 3 to 7 RialslKw.
D. Future Operations, Sustainability and Lessons Learned
Future Operation and Sustainability
46.            Future operations and sustainability of the project face a nunber of challenges, including
the following: (i) the complex and intricate process of the transition - following the national re-unification
- from the earlier Govemment controlled system into a largely private agricultural sector; (ii) the current
national budgetary/financial constraints under the GOY economnic reform and restructuring programme
that could result in a serious limitation to national funding of future recurrent costs needed to achieve the
project's sustainability; and (iii) the need for an efficient institutional and coordination mechanism to
enhance complementarity between the project's future operations and other relevant agricultural and rural
development projects in Wadi Hadramawt.
47.            To meet these challenges, the following measures were discussed by the mission with
MAWR, the PMU and IDA supervision missions: (i) analyzing and designing appropriate computerized
land registration systems, preparing appropriate maps for land titling and surveys and establishing a GIS
system for computerizing land titles and information in the area as envisaged in the Southern Govemorates
Project;  (ii) encouraging further involvement of the private sector in certain project operations, in
particular importing and marketing agricultural inputs. and nurserv management: (iii) carefullv examining



the possibility of establishing a Regional Agricultural Development Authority for Wadi Hadramawt. The
Authority could coordinate, supervise and reorient the activities of agricultural and rural development
projects in Wadi Hadramawt with particular emphasis on facilitating the settlement of displaced farmers.
shifting the focus in agricultural research and extension from large (state) farms to the emerging small
farms. and ensuring sustainable increase in agricultural production while paying attention to the
environment; and (iv) given the complex and external (to the project) circumstances that faced the
project's start-up and implementation (see above), an extension of the closing date by one year (proposed
as one of the options for future actions in the last IDA supervision mission report) would greatly improve
project sustainability, especially in relation to the spate irrigation and flood control component.
Lessons Learned
48.           The following are the main lessons learned:
* Given good staff/management and focussing on what farmers want, a lot can be
achieved, even in the face of major external problems.
. The major problem  faced by the project management unit revolved around the
continuing indecision regarding AFESD cofinancing. The Fund's contribution was
allocated to the core production activitv of groundwater development. The failure to
disburse funds against this component has had a dramatic effect on the overall benefits
of the project which could (even after 1995) have been partially achieved. The
procedures perniitting core activities to be allocated exclusively to cofinancier(s) must
be questioned.
* The extent of the disruption of farming activities as a result of the radical changes from
conunand cooperative fanning systems to privatization have been recognised under
project restructuring.  Yet. major constraints to proposed activities arose through
insecurity of land tenure leading to reduced input application, decreased establishment
of orchards and disincentive to high capital crops, e.g. potatoes. Many land disputes
have remained unresolved. Ameliorative action could have been taken to support
emerging farmer organizations (replacing cooperatives) through intensive extension to
modify cropping patterns, to assist with marketing price information and to facilitate
the transfer of machinery services and other farm inputs.
* The performance of the project in exceeding targets for spate irrigation was largely due
to support by farmers who in many sites participated in construction under project
engineering supervision. The advantages of semi-controlled spate irrigation are well
recognised and farmers have long experience in operational techniques.  The
sustainability prospects are high, given the demand-driven basis for the programme.
* The research/extension linkage has been functioning well under the project, due largely
to management promotion, the active operation of a Research/Extension Unit and the
advantage of extension having SMS's professional level support within their
establishment.
. The project procurement procedures were generally satisfactory. GOY/IDA gave
authority for direct procurement by the PMU of items up to USS200.000 and to
MAWR for items up to US$1 million. The High Tender Board remained responsible
for large contracts.  This flexibility and partial autonomv facilitated the  irnel1%
procurement of essential goods and services.



9
E. Follow-Up
49.          The mission will return to Rome on July 7, 1997 and will work on the draft ICR for
submnission to the WB by September 1997. The PMU informed the mission that the ICR from the
borrower's perspective is being prepared and will be forwarded to FAOlCP in Rome by
July/August 1997. The Borrower's ICR will be attached to the final ICR document, provided it would not
exceed ten pages, in accordance with IDA guidelines.



Yemen - The Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
(Credit No. 2045 -YDR)
ICR Review Mission
December 1997
1.    An IDA mission comprising Mr. Usaid El-Hanbali visited Wadi Hadramawt from
December 6-8, 1997to discuss and review preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
(WHADP III). The mission met with Mr. Ahmed Kreisan, Project General Director and
with the FAO/CTA, discussed with them the draft ICR prepared by the Project
Management and visited some project sites in Wadi Hadramawt including Shebam
Distribution Weir, Inat Weir and Tarim Extension Office, as well as the site of the Al-
Fallahin Dam on Wadi Massilah, which was damaged by recent floods.
2.    The mission would like to thank Mr. Ahmed Kreisan, the Project General
Director, for the cooperation and hospitality extended to the mission during its visit.
3.    The mission received a copy of the draft ICR that has been prepared by the
Project Management and which represents the Government's version of the Project ICR.
The mission would like to commend the Project Management for the timely and well
prepared ICR. The mission has reviewed that report and made detailed comments on it.
It was agreed that the Project Management will take these comments into consideration
when finalizing their report. It is expected that the Project Management would finalize
that report in early February, 1998 after the Project disbursement are completed by
January 31, 1998; and would submit the report to IDA by the end of February, 1998.
4.   It was also agreed that the FAO/CP mission would visit Wadi Hadramawt in early
February, 1998 to collect the final data about the Project including disbursement, works
completed, benefits, etc., in order to finalize the IDA's version of the ICR by the end of
February, 1998 and submit it to IDA by that time.
5.    The mission discusaed the plan for utilization of the 20 pumpsets procured under
the project and reiterated IDA comments contained in its fax of November 10, 1997 that
the Project Management should provide IDA with a plan for the utilization of the
pumpsets including criteria for selection of the beneficiaries and the financial
arrangements for handing over these pumpsets. It was agreed that the plan would be
submitted to IDA by January 31, 1998.
6.    The mission also discussed with the Project Management payment of the final
10% (US$29,721.12) to the gabion manufacturer, Officine Maccferri, which the Bank
Disbursement Department indicated that it is not eligible for financing, since the closing
date was September 30, 1997 and the payment was due after that date. It was agreed that
this amount be paid from the balance of the payment from the FAO technical assistance



2
contract. It was also agred that the Project Management would inform IDA by
December 31, 1997 about the unexpended amount of the TA contract with the FAO.
7.    The mission inspected the site of Al-Fallahin Weir on Wadi Al-Massilah which
has been damaged by this year flood, and that has caused erosion in the wadi section
upstream of the weir. It is evident that there is a need for a detailed study of the wadi to
select a suitable site to replace the old weir, taking into consideration water rights of the
users in the wadi.
8.    The mission was informed that the board of the Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development (AFESD) has agreed on December 3, 1997 to extend a loan of
KD4.0 million to finance its component under the WHADP III. It was agred that there
is a need for coordination between IDA and the AFESD about this matter, especially as
IDA has recently approved a credit for the Southern Governorate Rural Development
Project which contains some activities in Wadi Hadramawt similar to those to be
supported by the AFESD. The mission indicated that there is already some contacts
about this subject with the AFESD, and that the needed coordination would take place
after the AFESD loan becomes effective.
Usaid El-Hanbali
Task Leader
World Bank
December 22, 1997



ANNEX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2045-YEM)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:       Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Development Project, Phase IlIl
IDA Credit 2045-YDR
Country.    Former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY). After
unification with Northern Part of Yemen on 22 May 1990 called as
"Republic of Yemen"
INTRODUCTION
1.       Wadi Hadramout is a key area for agricultural production and the project
would provide a program for consolidating, expanding and ensuring sustained
development of land and water resources in the served area. Brief description of the
location, area climate, soils, geology, Groundwater and other resources are given in
appendix 1.
PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.       The agricultural development of the Wadi Hadramout was phased out in
three phases. A summary of the previous two phases are given below:
WHADP 1:    An IDA supported first Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Development
Project (WHADP I, Cr. 615-YDR) was initiated in 1979 and completed in 1982 for
a total cost of about US$11 of which US$4 million was government contribution.
The main objective of the project was to stimulate increase in agricultural
production on about 8,000 ha of irrigated land.
WHADF'II:    Based on the studies carried out in phase 1, a second phase
project (WHADP II ) was initiated in 1984 and completed in 1990 for a total of
US$41.22 million. The project was cofinancing by IDA(US$10.8, Cr. 11346-YDR);
the Kuwaiti Fund for Arab Economic Development, KFAED(US$11.9, Loan
No.255); Arab Fund for Economical and Social Development, AFESD (US$12.95,
loan No. 131/84) and Government contribution was estimated (US$5.57). The
main objectives of the project are to increase agricultural production and farmers'
income. The main component of the project was the development of 3,400 ha of
groundvvater irrigation land.
3.       Following the successful implementation and outcome of the earlier two
phases, Phase IlIl was initiated to aim at consolidating and expansion of agricultural
production in Wadi Hadramout area



- 2-
OUTLINE OF OFFICIAL ARRANGEMENT
4.       After conformation of the availability of good quality ground water by
consultant studies for the development of 3,000 ha, the Third Wadi Hadramout
Agricultural Project was formulated and verified in February 1988 and finally prepared by
FAO/CP mission in May 1988 and appraised by IDA in February 1989. The estimated
cost of the project was US$41.8 million agreed to be cofinanced by IDA, AFESD
KFAED and the Govemment of Yemen.
5.       The IDA loan was signed in October 1989 and became effective on June
1990 (See Attachment 1 for important project dates). The KFAED and AFESD loan was
signed in early 1990 but the 1St agency withdrew and the 2nd agency did not declare the
effectiveness of its loan agreement.
Project Start-up and Restructuring
6.    Because of the Gulf crises of 1990/1991, the Kuwait Fund KFAED withdrew and
the AFESD delayed its funding.
7.    The unification of Yemen in 1991 also caused institutional restructuring resulted
in Govemment revised policy on landowner ships "Degree 65," which directly affects the
originally designated project areas and caused the project to be restructured.
8.    The significant changes mentioned in points 5 & 6 above, necessitated a project
restructuring. The restructuring agreement was signed in January 1993 and IDA board
confirmation of the restructuring was given on March 11, 1994 and endorsed by the
Govemment of Yemen on April 11, 1994 . All this happens with AFESD not declaring its
loan effectiveness.
9.    The approved restructuring project was, thus, ready for implementation by mid
1994. But the civil unrest erupted from May to July 1994 causing further delay of project
start-up of physical implementation by almost a year.
10.  In May 1995, a WB supervision mission agreed with the Government on further
scaling down of the project in view of the lost time and the delay in funding the activities
of the project by AFESD.
Project Cost
11.   The estimate cost of the restructured WHADP IlIl is US$27.1 million, out of which
US$23.8 million is in foreign exchange and US$3.3 million equivalent is in local
currency.
12.   As of September 1996, IDA has canceled US$6 million (SDR 4 million) form its
credit contribution due to the delay in the start-up of the project short time left to the
project closing date.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
13.   The original project objectives were to consolidate and expand development in
Wadi Hadramout so as to ensure sustainable agricultural production and improve the
income and living standard of project beneficiaries, while paying attention to conserving



- 3 -
the environment. As per the summary description outlined in project agreement and its
amendments, the objectives would be achieved through the following:
Groundwater irrigation development of 1450 ha
14.   Development of an estimated 1,450 ha ground water irrigated agriculture. The
area will be divided into 9 locations and to be irrigated by a constructed diesel operated
well of 30 I/s discharge. The developments includes establishment of irrigation net-works
and on-farm improvements, construction of about 16 km of flood buns, minor spate
remodeling works in flood-prone area, and the construction of farm access roads. The
area developed will be allocated to selected farmers in 2 ha plot, with group of 12
farmers in 24 ha unit size.
Spate improvement and flood control works for 2700 ha
15.   Rehabilitation of traditional spate irrigation works of 27 sites which provide spate
irrigation for about 2700 ha. Also the project will provide flood protection to villages, and
agricultural land.
Project Manaigement
16.   Strengthening of Project Management Unit (PMU) which includes supplies of
furniture, vehicles and computers supplies. Inputs also includes provision of technical
assistance and training.
17.   Strengthening of Irrigation and Maintenance Unit (IMU) by providing vehicles,
equipment and heavy machinery required for maintenance of both spate and ground
water irrigation systems as well as training.
Agricultural Development
18.   Strengthening of the Agricultural Research Center (ARC) and the Agricultural
Extension Services (AES) through the provision of technical assistance, training and
providing supporting facilities such as equipment, vehicles, motorcycles, construction of
training center and office houses.
19.   The project under going development of forestry and soil conservation activities
through strengthening forestry institutions, establishing new and upgrading existing
forestry nurseries, carrying out flood control, soil erosion and sand dune fixation works
in the project area.
20.   Support the promotion of fruit orchards in the Wadi and expansion of fruit tree
nursery as well as supply of vehicles, equipment and provision of technical assistance
and training, and carrying out studies for planning future developments in the
agricultural sector.
PROJECT ACTIVITIES AND ACHIEVEMENT
GW Irrigation Development
21.   One of the main objectives of Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Development Project,
Phase Ill, is the development of estimated 1450 ha of white land to be irrigated using
GW. As stated in the SAR, this main project component is to be funded by AFSED for a



- 4 -
total amount of approximately US$11 million (KD3.3 million). In 1996, the Government
signed a contract with Coode Blizard Ltd, a Consulting Engineers firm from UK, for
providing consultancy services for the development of GW irrigated land. AFSED did not
approve the 1st payment and the consultant firm did not mobilize. AFESD requested the
govemment through, the consultant, to conduct a supplementary study aiming at
carrying further technical investigation of land classification and water resources. The
supplementary study conducted by the consultant has started on 29 July 1996 after
receiving the advance payment for a total cost of US$287,586 funded from AFESD
remaining fund of phase I.
22.   Final report of the supplementary study has been received in April 1997 with a
copy send to AFSED, WB, MAI and MPD. Despite the positive outcome of the
supplementary studies conducted by the CB consultancy concerning the availability of
GW and land capabilities, the AFESD remained reluctant to declare the loan effective.
23.   On October 5, 1997, the AFESD has signed an agreement with the Government
of Yemen for cofinancing phase IlIl project increasing its contribution from KD3.3 million
to KD4 million (US$13.2 million). This will cover the GW development, Agricultural
Inputs and provision for consultancy services.
24.   Following the recommendation of WB mission in September 1995, the project
procured 20 irrigation pumpsets that remain to be distributed pending MAI and WB
advice and approval. This pumps will be distributed to the displaced farmer as part of
government financed program for drilling and equipping 66 irrigation wells. Only 26 wells
were drilled under this program, 5 of which were equipped with pumpsets and were
operational.
Spate Irrigation Development and Flood Control works
Spate Improvement
25.   According to the Restructuring Project Documents, spate irrigation system was
to be improved at 23 sites serving 2700 ha of agricultural land. Due to fund availability,
more sites were identified bringing the total number of constructed spate irrigation sites
to 32. Most of the works executed with the participatory approach of the beneficiaries
either through direct contract and/or through sharing of not less than 20% of the
construction cost.
26.   All spate irrigation works identified for construction and rehabilitation have been
completed as planned. However, in June 1996 and some of the following large floods
have caused minor damages to some of the completed structures which required some
further rehabilitation.
27.  In addition to the above mentioned 32 sites, the project in other 58 sites only
supplied the gabions boxes as well as engineering supervision and the farmers
participated themselves in the execution of the works and the payment of any other
required cost. In total, the project has executed more than 41,880 m3 of gabion boxes
distributed on 90 sites in the whole Wadi Hadramout Area.
28.   Sites in Wadi Amd was executed under small labor contracts. The project
participated in cost of machinery, transporting stones, gabions. The farmers supplied
manpower required freely.



- 5 -
29.   Inventory for spate irrigation and flood protection sites that needs rehabilitation
or reconstruction was carried out in all Wadi Hadramout tributaries and more than 100
sites have been identified.
Flood Protection Works
30.   According to the project documents, four sites are to be developed for the
purpose of Wadi's flood protection scheme. These sites are Al-Jawada, Otfa, Al-Swairi
and Thabi. The construction of Al-Jawada and Otfa protection works has started on
15/01/1996 and was completed in April 1996. For sites Al-Swairi and Thabi, contracts
were to be a warded in July 1996 with the expected completion date as October 1996.
Unfortunately, in June 1996, the worst floods in 70 years history of the Wadi washed
away the completed flood protection works at Al-Jawada and Atfa . Provision for
reconstructing the damaged works was made under the Emergency Rehabilitation Flood
Project financed by IDA. From then, works has been concentrated on repairing the
damages caused by the June 1996 flood to the ongoing spate and protection works in
the Wadis. This also caused a delay in initiating the construction works in Al-Swairi and
Thabi. However, additional site, that is Yamani site, has been identified as more urgent
and demanding for repair and construction. Yamani site close to Seiyun Airport has the
importance of protecting the airport as well as serving more than 450 ha of agricultural
land. Works in Yamani site started in 1st of June and expected to be completed by the
end of September 1997.
Strengthening of Research and Extension Services
Research Activities
31.   The project has contributed significantly toward strengthening and support of
Agricultural Research Center (ARC) to the benefits of the agricultural production and
practices in Wadi Hadramawt Area. The center was supported with 3 double-cabin 4WD
pick-up, 6 sprayers, 1 electrical generator, 1 pumpsets for Al-Suwairi research farm,
office furniture and supplies, laboratory supplies, forestry tolls, onion seed store shed
and some operational and maintenance cost.
32.   To improve contact with farmer, the project constructed six office/house centers
for research and extension services.(one each at Kuath, Hora, Tarim and Sah ).
33.   The center also benefited from the technical assistance provided by project FAO
expertise in the field of Irrigation Agronomy, Horticultural and Farming system. Training
was provided in terms of overseas, 2 M.Sc fellowships and 3 p/m short coarse training
in addition to local training provided by the expertise through courses, workshops and in-
service training. Publications & scientific journal were also supplied.
34.  In close collaboration with ARC, the project established a back-up collection of
dates palm germiplasm at Suwari agricultural research farm. There is a collection of
about 150 palms taking place in the field, representing 31 local varieties. As the planting
becomes well established, it will become the first and the only basic field Gene Bank in
the country.



-6-
Extension Services
35.   WHADP III has participated effectively in implementing the extension programs
which included the supplies of vehicles and equipment. including 4 pick-up vehicles, 25
motor cycles, computer, printer and software, facsimile machine, audio visual equipment
and offset machine, construction of four extension centers and two research field lab.
distributed in the project area at Kuath, Hora, Tarim and Sah to improve contact with
farmers, and construction and furnishing of a training center in Seiyun.
36.   Training of Personnel: The training of personnel concerned with field crops
production from seed to high fruit were conducted through the participation of the project
FAO expertise in Horticulture, Irrigation Agronomist and Farming System. Other training
supports provided by the project are: 7 FEA's received training in extension services for
a duration of one month in Egypt, 9 SMS received short courses for two months duration
in Jordan and 2 senior staff are currently doing their M.Sc. degree at Sudan university
and expected to be completed by December, 1997.
37.   Other activities: With the project support in providing vehicles, motorcycles, and
petrol, the extension activities were resumed and the following summarize some of the
achievements of the extension services in project area:
38.   Demonstration field visits averaged at 1042/year and FEA's contact with farmer
totaled 94/year.
39.   Problems faced by the extension workers in the field have been conveyed to the
research center so as to obtain answers and recommendation.
40.   Training courses were organized for rural women. This includes 2 workshops
attended by 38 women on citching & cooking, care of Baby Nitration and animal
husbandry. One training workshop was organized for farmers on the use of pesticides
with the participation of 15 farmers.
41.   Information knowledge and expertise available at Research Center were made
available to farmers through extension workers. The demonstration program
implemented by the Extension was threefold; the introduction of new agricultural
practices, the improvement of local methods of production and the introduction of new
varieties such as three new varieties of onion .
42.   However, due to the lack of governmental fund and support, the project always
kept a supply line of operational costs such as petrol, stationary and equipment
maintenance cost.
Horticultural Activities
43.   Horticultural activities mainly promotion of orchards were started during
WHADPII by the establishment of Al-Shahuh fruit nursery. WHADPIII was to expand
and strengthen these activities so as to promotes the production, harvesting, packing,
marketing and increase productivity of fruits and vegetables.
44.   The starting point in trying to achieve this objective was a horticultural
consultancy services supplied by the project (9 p/m). The provided services assisted the
project in evaluating the status of horticultural crops in Wadi Hadramawt and in
establishing guidelines that would help to improve and expand the promotion and
marketing of fruit and vegetable crops.



- 7 -
45.   The project supplied nursery tools, equipment, 4WD double cabin pick-up
vehicle, one motorcycle, Two 5-ton truck and an electric pump.
46.   The nursery established at Shuhuh during WHAP II was expanded by an area
amounting to 400 sq. meters to accommodate more seedlings.
47.   Furthermore, four staff from the section were given overseas training totaling
lOp/Im. In addition, building up of counterpart knowledge, capacity and attaining the self
reliance in extension works has been achieved also through visiting farmers orchards.
48.   Development of Shuhuh nursery was given priority because of its importance in
the area. The production of the expanded nursery increased from 11,112 seedlings in
1995 to 15,480 seedlings in 1996 to be more than 100% increase in 1997 reaching
32,400 seedlings. The proceed collected from the sale of seedlings up to December
1996 amounted to YR 564,375, equivalent to US dollar 4,515 and expected to more
than doubled by the end of year 1997.
Forestry and Sand Dune Fixation Activities
49.   The project objective stipulated the creation of a forestry and sand dune
stabilization unit within WHAP IlIl and strengthening it to become the regional office of
the General Directorate of Forestry and desertification based in Sana'a.
50.   The role of that unit would be to provide nursery seedlings of adapted species
and use them to establish shelterbelts, stabilize sand dunes and make seedlings
available to farmers for the establishment of windbreaks around their farms. Following is
the description of the accomplishments made on this component.:
51.   The project supplied the unit with forestry tools and equipment, two 4WD double
cabin pick-up vehicles , 2 motorcycles, two Trucks and one water trailer browser.
52.   The project has established a new forestry nursery at Al-Qat'n which is fully
functional now producing and supplying seedling to the community. In addition, works
for the improvement of Al-Suwairi nursery also took place by constructing a water tank
and improve water supply system as well as the renewal of nursery shed.
53.   A local forestry expert was used in designing the plan for windbreak and
Shelterbelt plantation. In addition, a qualified M.Sc. holder in forestry from the ARC in
Seiyun were also involved in the works implementation and design.
54.   The works comprising 22,800 meter length of planted windbreaks and sand dune
fixation have been completed. These cover a total land area of 53100 square meters,
protecting 74 ha of crop land belonging to more than five farmers. More than 8,500
seedlings were planted using 4,500 meter of PVC water supply pipes, 700 sprinkler
nozzles, and 2,950 meter of mechanical windbreak made form date palm fronds, 1,400
meter of mechanical sand control embankments and 22,800 meter of drip irrigation
pipes.
55.   Farmers were participated in the program by supplying free water and some
case sharing the cost for more than 20%.
Project Management Support
56.   The project has supplied the PMU with fumiture, 5 computers and its
accessories such as plotter, scanner, printers, modem and the required software's. In
addition, other office equipment, such as facsimile, photocopy machines, typewrite and



- 8 -
air-conditions were also supplied.. The project also financed the procurement of seven
double cabin 4WD pickups(3 lost through hijacking), two 4WD station Wagons, one
single cabin 4WD pick-up and 11 motor cycles 125cc.
57.   The project constructed a fence around the project's offices compound, vehicles
shed, guest house with complete furniture and improved internal and external
communication by the installation of telephone central. connecting all HQ offices and
buildings.
58.   The PMU were strengthened by the provision of TA provided by the project
through FAO agreement. Under this TA project provided the services of a Chief
Technical Adviser(CTA)/lrrigation Engineer and senior experts, including Irrigation
Agronomist, Horticulturist, Farming System Agronomist and UNV in M&E. Training of
PMU staff were also conducted through overseas short course.
Irrigation Maintenance Units (IMU)
59.   Three sub-units have been established to cover project area aiming to
coordinating and supervising the O&M of both traditional spate irrigation works and the
modem irrigation systems(phase 11 area). The IMU is entrusted with inspection and
survey as well as design of all the spate irrigation and flood protection sites. The IMU
staff under the overall supervision of the engineering department were involved in
preparing designs, drawing, bill of quantities, cost estimation for the required
maintenance, rehabilitation and construction of spate irrigation and flood protection
works implemented under phase Ill.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
60.   The main factors affecting the project performance can be summarized as
follows:
(a)   Because of the Gulf crises of 1990/1991, the Kuwait Fund KFAED
withdrew and the Arab Fund AFESD delayed its funding.
(b)   The unification of the country which caused institutional restructuring.
Subsequently due to Government's revised policy on land ownership
'Degree 65' which directly affects the originally designated project areas
and caused the project to be restructured.
(c)   Civil unrest from May to July 1994 and the subsequent following reasons.
(d)   Delay funding the activities of the project by AFESD.
(e)   Procurement process started only in Oct\Nov 1994 well behind schedule.
(f)    Due to inflationary pressure, the Government provided budget only to
meet regular salaries and general expenses, so PMU and the extension
services were unable to do any field works.
(g)   Immobility caused by the loss of three project vehicles through hijacking
causing security problems which delayed project activities in some project
areas.
(h)   Although withdrawal application for the project special account was
submitted to IDA in November 1994, IDA were reluctance to open the



-9 -
account because of the presence of a dysfunctional special account for
other projects in the country. The 1st replenishment to the project Special
Account was done during March 1996.
(i)   Power sharing and lack of communication hampered project activities in
the early stages. The interruptions in power supply has become a big
constraint to increase area of crops and intensity for phase 11 areas
(k)   Land ownership issues have had disturbing effects on agricultural
development of phase 11 area.
(I)   Delay in the government clearance of TA expertise caused longer delay
in the recruitment and placement of the FAO personnel.
(n)   Major and extreme flood of June 1996 which caused the delay and
increase in the size of the implemented spate irrigation and flood
protection works
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FOLLOW UP
61.   Despite the fact that no expansion of GW  irrigated land due to lack of
cofinancier, the project has gone beyond the retrofitted objectives to improve and
expand the spate irrigation system in a sustainable manner. The approach followed by
the project in involving the beneficiaries in the implementation as well as in the O&M of
the completed works will fulfill the condition of project sustainability.
62.   After the AFESD re-affirm its commitment to finance the development of 1450 ha
of land, there is a need for a follow up on the implementation of this development.
IDA PERFORMANCE
63.   The performance of IDA management are highly satisfactory having a positive
impact, flexibility contributions on the project implementation progress and its
achievement. The IDA missions, which visited the project on average three times a year
has helped in resolving many constraints by holding discussion with higher level of
Government officials, especially concerning delays in project procurements and fulfilling
Government commitments.
64.   However, the relation between the IDA and the AFESD cofinancier were very
weak , especially between 1994 and the beginning of 1996. This caused IDA to
continue its commitments in the implementation of the project without the assurance of
the AFESD cofinancier contribution.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
65.   Despite the draw back resulted from not implementing the ground water irrigated
land development, the PMU can confidently rate the achievement to be satisfactory. The
improvement in spate irrigation system has benefited more than 4000 ha and 1600
farmers who are among the poorer farmers in the area. The flood protection works has
helped the protection of villagers houses, agricultural land and the Seiyun airport as well
as stabilizing the Wadi beds and embankments. The implemented spate and flood
works have already helped in recharging the ground water and the well irrigated area in
the nearby of the works has benefited from the increases in the water level. Forestry



- 10 -
and sand dune fixation, the expand in orchards and the supports given to the research
and extension services in the area will help in the increase of crop productions and the
improvement of farmers income. The achievement in the civil construction works are
highly satisfactory in terms of design and quality. Success in training of the staff and the
support given to the PMU has been considerable.
FINDING AND LESSONS LEARNED
66.   The major problem faced by the PMU revolved around the continuing indecision
regarding AFESD cofinancing. The Fund's contribution was allocated to the core
production activity of GW development.
67.   The land disputes and insecurity in tenure has its negative impact on the
agricultural production of project area(including phase 11 areas), reduce in input
application, the expansion in orchards and disincentive to high capital crops.
68.   PMU has initiated a new approach in the execution of the Spate Irrigation , flood
protection and the forestry works, that is to involve the beneficiaries in the execution of
the required works by either using small labor contracts or in some cases the project
has only to supply the needed gabions and engineering supervision.:
69.   The Government/IDA agreement (CPPR-April-May 1995) on the enhancing of
the procurement procedures has its positive effects on expediting project procurements.
70.   The lengthy procedures for obtaining govemment clearance for the technical
assistance personnel has its negative impact on the timely placement of the expatriate.
71.  In order to safeguard against overexploiting of GW resources, it is essential that
the government urgently in-force an existing degree for controlling well drilling and the
registration of all drilling rigs and licensing. Levying of water charges is also essential to
encourage the optimum utilization of GW resources.



Cr.2045                       WHADPIII                        ICR; Nov., 1997
Attachment 1
Table 1: Fruit Seedlings Production
EAR-: LEMON PAPAW  GUAVA FIG  POMEGRAWAT GRAPES OTHERS   TOTAL -
1989   340    2410                                           2750
1990   2000   2500   500    517            596               6113
1991   3189   1358   342    219            212    51 Orange 5371
1992   2552   4584  152      305  967      519     _     _8979
1993   2518   8858  [710    375  802       371               13634
1994   302 _ 452    58                                       812
1995   1240   8500   487    210  445       230               11112
1996   1003   12719  503    267  614       374               15480
1997   4000   23650  1000   1000 1500    1000    250        32,400
TOTAL 14332  41381  2689   19163076    2309          1      98154
Table 2: Forestry Seedling Production
YEARP.i.; ZIZAPHUS; PARKIN S PFROSOPIS ACACIA SELFAD. TAMARiX ACA  SP-. T OTA
1996 - - -4047    1079   1378    1170  1170   650    260     9754
T997'.  1786    5000   4265    3400  3350   2100   150       20051
TOTAL  5833    6079   5643    4570  4520   2750   410        29805
Plus 3,000 seedlings production of the new Al-Qut'n Nurserv up to Nov 1997



Cr. 2045                                             WHADPIII                                   1(CR. Oct.. 1997
Attachment 2
Table 1
STATUS OF CONSTRUCTION WORKS
Sector Name         Agr Area    Actual      Work   !   Work               Remark
& Site Name          Served     Cost       Starting    Finislhiig
ha                   Date         Date
SPATE [RRIGA1TION
WORKS
B- Wadi Du'an
1. Al-Hajrain           318        5.810 2    11/07/1996  23/08/1997  WR
2. Ghar Al Sudan         96         4.405.5    11/05/1996  12/07/1996  WR+SP+RT
3. Marmar                24         3.259.7   (01/10/1996  26/10/1996  WR + SP
4. Alarsamah             64         14,937.9              i             3 SP
4.1 Al-Jahi                                   01/10/1996 1 13/10/1996
4.2 Al-Hejel                                  Not S artcd              3 SP
5. Halboon               32                    Not Started              Canceled
6. Al Doafa              38        6.591.1                             6 SP+ 2 RT(350m)
6.1 Al-Seed                                   Not Started
6.2 Al-Mishehin                                                        Canceled
7. %jef                  40         15.292.5
7.1 HurretBahran                              29/06/1996  04/09/1996  3 SP
7.2 Hurret Agdeer                             09(0911996  22/11/1996  2 SP
8. Hoofa                 54         17.638.]   1(0/11/1996  14/12/1996  6 SP
8.1 Heed Al-Gazeel
8.2 Kleef
8.3 Al-Rahyan
8.4 Zafran -                                                           RT(150m)
8.5 Sin Assada                                Not Started              3 SP
9. Al-Gedferah  :       43          8,686.3    25/12/1996              4 SP
9.1 Khelih
9.2 Al-Gedfera
C- Wadi Amd
1.Nafhoon               77          19.278.0   1/1(0/1996   20/11/1996  WR + DR
1. I Mansam
1.2 Al-Gefrah
2. Gar Al-Mall          77          10,923(1  24/09/1996  23/11/1996  WR + DR
3. Amed                  93         14,632.0   07/12/1996  07/12/1996
4. Al-Shigen         -  31         06,585.0   03/12/1996  03/12/1996  WR
5. Al-Jaroob                       4,957.22   Not Started              W~R + Cl
D- Wadi Al-Ain
1. Ghoarb               103         10.493.5   01/11/1996  25/12/1996  5 SP
2. Mohra                 48         18.370.95                          6 SP
2.1 JarfAl-Dahgah                            (09/10/1996  12/12/1996  Site 2.1 & 2.2 Constructed
2.2 Baradwan                                  09/10/1996  12/12/1996  in one contract
2.3 Rabwat Al-Saeed                                        15/03/1997
3. AI-Quraibat          29          3,475.5    02/03/1997  02/04/1997  WR+ 3 SP
4. Sharg-Alsharif        155        14.126.40  27/10/1996              RT(I5 m)
5. Seer                  10        6.701.9    05/05/1996  15/06/1996  3 SP
E- Wadi Edm
1. AlMansam                         18.603.9   1/10(/1996   01/03/1997  2 WR
2. Alwahad                          28.329()       =       01/03/1997  WR+CI
3. AlGronfiil                       46.322         =       01/06/1997  WR
4. Saha                             Included               01/03/1997  4WR; All Works are
in aboxve                          Executed by one contractor



Cr. 2045                                                  WHADPIII                                       ICR, Oct., 1997
Attachment 2
Table 1
(cont'd)
QContract, i       Site, name           Actual      Date of       Work        Work               Remark
No.    :      *; 0: 400000  j       Cost US$    Contract    Starting    Finishing
_________    _______________________   ~Signing       Date        Date
. PROTECTION....'...
-WORKS. .-
it:   i    i-:S  Ci f.ft tl..t... ~..  .fA .0 . ..-4   .. T-;0... i' . 4-  --:.
15/96      A- Site One                33,274.29   25/12/95    1/3/96        1/5/96      Completely Damaged by
IAl-j                                                                        Flood of June 1996
laB- .Others-   .. ..
ti- '1. '-Shibam --0   -"''88,060.00
'1. '-~ -Bi '-Ylaniani' -,     :i- 36,803  1/06/1997   1/06/1997   15/9/1997   WR + CI + SP
2':). Roads iMaintenancel:  313,950
CIVILMWORKS
8/96       lA, Consiction Qf'         54,735.74   27/2/96      01/03/96    30/10/96    Completed one month
A&B         AQutn Fore6st-Nursery,                                                       earlier
Ntirsr at, Shuh,
. .    , ..... ........ --fft' .
-'Buildjng:of2--water tankt.
- lBconstrtion.ofa -  - 14,264.31   29/2/1996   4/3/1996    15/5/1996
g-Vehicle: shed; .t :--.'4.'t - :
9/96       2  ostruction o            330,147     25/05/96    10/06/96    14/08/97    I)Kuath 2)Hora 3)Tarim
.E xtensio  enters and                                                        4)Sah
EResehU.Iab, Qffices
10/96     -3 Cnttin-of Sey            184,040     19/06/96    1/10/1996   1/8/1997    Delay due to the death of
Tr2ainingCen 'ter  -: g 0 ':0- :i~                                           contractor
1796       4.C C     ctibon of Guest: 182,312     10/8/96      10/8/1996   15/9/1997   Delay due to additional
uHose...                                                                     works required
18/96     5.                          D)Construcon of  53,809  0 1/07/96    10/07/96    10/10/96
BoundaryvWalliaround;
:Project HQ.g0    ;ff-S:- : ;0   :
General Remark  1. Spate Irrigation Works and Flood Protection Works plans has been affected by the June 1996 Flood
2. SP=Spurs; WR=Weir; RT= Retaining Wall; DR= Drop Structure; CI= Chainnel Intake
3. Other civil works fOunded from local budget included Fence, vehicle shed, drilling of well; for the
Seed Multiplication Center and onion shed for ARC.



Cr. 2045                                                                                 WHADPIII                                                                           ICR; Nov., 1997
DETAILED SPATE IRRIGATION WORKS
Spate Irrigation Work_s         Total Cost         Gabion        Stone        Fitter Cloths                      Earth Work               Stone       Concrete    others         Type
Transit                         Fill          Cut          FlCt           sor',    -of
Sector Name    lSite Name      Estimated   Actual    Qum,   Rh   Ohm3   RI   QtJm3    Rt   QtJm'   Rt    QhJm'   Rt  Ot hr   R               QJm      Rh    t/3 tQim         Rt      Works
B. Wadi Duan ____
AI-Hajrain       -5,810.20   5.810.20   695.00   3.8  464.00   5                                                               14.00   18.6  23.00  25.6                           1 DR+ I WR
Ghar Al-Sudan    -4,405.50   4,405.50   555.00   3.8  370.00   5                                                               24.00   18.6                                        1 DR + I WR
Marinar          -3,303.90   3,259.65 1387.00   4.11258.00  4.6 121.00  23.15                                                                                                I_ DR +1SP ORT
AI-Arsemah      AI-Jahi         6,596.30   5,856.86 1750.00  4.26  500.00  4.811                                               15.00  23.15                                 __        5SP
AI-Arsemah      Al-Hejel        8,907.70   9,131.01   701.00  4.30  501.00  4.741                                              15.00  23.15                                            RT
Al-Doafa        Al-Sa'eed       6,601.25   6,591.10
Seeft            Harat Bahran    9,500.70    9,500.70  1,204.00  4.4  803.00  4.6  ___                                         22.00  23.15                                           4 SP
Seef            Harat Agdeer    7,112.80   5,791.80   692.00   4.4  416.00' 4.6  ____36.00  _23.15   __
Hoofa     eed Algzeel 8,867.30   10,601.00   918.00   4.3  612.00  4.6                                                5.02.56S
Hoota       ~~&   Kleef    _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _
Hoota           Al-Ryan & Al-   7,115.10   7,037.10                                                                                                                                   5 SP
Zaffran
Al-Goferah  Khelih & Al-     9452 5 T8,686.29   934.00  46        86    4.6                                               6.02.58S
iGedterah
C: Wadi Amed                              ___
Mansam & Al-                                                                                                                 90.0   15.0
Nafhoon     Ogdaih          17,665.50  19,278.00   659.00   12   150.00  6.0  705.00   0.50   160.00  5.0   530.00   5.0  7000   25    54.5   25.0                              WR+1D
I            1                            ~       ~~~~~~~~63 0   35 0
Gafinall                        9.638.00   10,923 00   470.00   _ ___             720.00   0.50   49.20   5.0   393 40   5.0                  55 0   35.0  42.5  10 0 720 0 0.5   1 WR + IlDP
Ameod                           13,395.00  14,632.00   696.00   12                180.00   0.5   225.00  5.0   584.00   5.0                   27.0   35.0                            1IWR
___________  ________   ________  _______   _____                                            ~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80.0  15.0
AI-Shign        I______    6,185.00 16,585.00   350.00   12  __                   520.00 ,0.5                   297.00   5.0, 32,00   20.0                                           1IWR
Al-TaJroob                      5,212.16   4,957.22    72.00   4.6  151,00  4.6                                                              68.22  19.08                            WR +CI
132,80  1.2
D: Wadi Al-Ain               -___      __      ____                                                __          _______
Ghoarb                          10,874.00  10,493.50  1,145.00 3.65  763.00  6.0  ____75.00  23.15                                                                                    5 SP
Mohra           'JarfAl-Dahgah   8,865.00    8,862.95  1,025.00  4.0  683.00  5.55                                             42.00  23.15                                           6 SP
& Baradwan
Mohra            Rabiwat Al-    7,702.25   9,508.00   836.50   4.0  558,00  5.55                                               30.00  23.15
Seeef
AI-Quraibat            ~~~~~3~47550   13,475.50   350.00   3. :3.3.00  4.4                                             8,0 2.53 Sp + WR
Sharg Ai-Shareef                13,987.50   1,26.40  1,350.00  4.   900.005.0                                  ____            50.00  23,:15___                                     RT(150 m)
Sier                   ~~~~~~~~~6,488.10   8,701.90   856.00   3.4  712.00  5.0                                        10.00  23.15                                           3SP
W adi-1dm   -     __   _  _      _   __      _   _      _  _                                       _   _       _  _   _
AI-Mansam        _____           All Cost   18,803.90   491 .00   10              491 .00   0.25 ____        J185.50   4.0                                      ]2WR
A-Wahed         ______93,255.00  28,329.00  1,335.001 10 I650.00   0.25 1                                   J 2,000.00 14.0                  50.0 I30           I    I              WR+C
____________  __________    ________ 47,322.10  1,570.00  110         1,.300.001 0.25  1            1 ,1575.00    1 4.01         1      1             1    1               5               0~   (
AI-Gronful  -                      -   -   -                            40 __                                   -  -                SWR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V(



CR. 2045                                       WHADP III                                 ICR; Nov., 1997
Attachment 3
Table 1
Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Development Project III
Procurement Distribution
Item                 QUANTITY                               DISTRIBUTION
Original Revised  Procured   Agr. Agr. Forest Fruit Farm  Irrig.  P roj. Pilot Agr.
Res Ext. &sand Tree mach. Maint. Mgnt Land Inputs
stab.  nurs.       unit  unit Reg.
Vehicles
D-Cabin 4x4                 13      19         17   3    2       2    1             2   41
St. Wagon 4x4                6       2          2                                         2
Short wheel PU 4x4          11       6          6         5     _       _                 1
2 Ton Truck                  2       2          2                1    1
Motor cycle 125 cc         25       36        36  __   25        2    1             2    6
Equipment
Farm tractor 90-95 HP        3       3          3 _   _                      2      1
Farm tractor 60-65 HP      26        2          0
Tractor 90 HP H/loader       2       2          1          _                        1
W. Browser 1200 gall.        3       3          3                         _         3      .
Flat bed truck 7 ton         1       2          2                1                  1
Dump truck 6 ton             0       1          1    _        _        1
Thresher 2T/Hr. Cap.        22       4          0 _|_
Tipper Trailer              25       6          0               _   =            = 
Mitsubishi Veh.+ spares      0       0          3             -     -               3  -           -
Trailer Browser              2       2          2  _             1                  1
Motor Grader 125 HP          1       1          1             -                     I -  -    -
Front-end Loader             2       1          1                                   1
Compacting Roller            1       1 _        1                                   1
concrete mixer 7/5           2       0          0     ____
Trailer                      2       0          0          I__T ___ 
Compressor                   1       1          0 ____ _ 
Knapsack Sprayers         904    204         204    4                      x
mech. sprayerwith tank       6       6          2   2         -                  -
Video equipment        $30000 _        $41094.6 |_| x                            _
Mold board Plough     |    25        4          0 _                =              
Electric pump                 1      1          1                     1
Rear Grader Blades    |       8     10          0     ____
Seed Drill                   5       2          0    L    I         ==
Ridger                      10      10          0     l_-
Ditcher                     10      10          0 l     I                                  =
Disc Harrow                 25      10          0  I  l I I_
Land Leveler                 2       2          0 ___
Tine cultivator             25      25          0     I __==
Potato lifter                6       5          0     I    I         _
Clipper cutter               0       4          0 _
LAB equipment
Neutron probe                6       6          4   4
Balances                     4       8          8   4
Misc. equipment     _1$35000          1$45970                 x
Generator             1      2       31        31          12
5Ton truck                   1       o0       0o      III ___ 
Office Equipment       ____==
Facsimile                    0       0          3 _       1                              2
Typewriter                   3       3          3 _    __                                3
Photocopier                  3       3          0 _   ____
DOupl. equipment             1       2          1         1               -                  -    -
PC incl. printer, s.ware     6       8          61    |  1                               5



CR. 2045                                      WHADP Hll                                ICR; Nov., 1997
Attachment 3
Table 1
(cont'd)
Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Development Project IlIl
Procurement Distribution
Item                 QUANTITY                              DISTRIBUTION
Original Revised  Procured   Agr. Agr. Forest Fruit Farm  Irrig.  Proj. Pilot Agr.
Res Ext. &sand Tree mach. Maint. Mgnt Land Inputs
stab.  nurs.       unit  unit  eg
Air conditioner             4       8         8                 _                      8
Furniture                                        =   =                                     _
Office furniture      $55000          $68700.95  x   x                          x     x   =I=
Survey Equipment                               _              _
Survey Equipment &    $10000          sfr.48153                                 x
Drafting Equipment    $5000  _ _in above    _
Water Mgnt Equipment        4 $50000 sfr.80977                                  x
Agromet station             2 $40000          2                    -              2
Rain gauge                 10       0         0    _
Flood gauge                 8       0         0                                _           _
EC measuring meter          4       0         0
Canal flow meter(reg)       2       0         0                    _
Canal flow meter(sm)        4       0         0
Well digging gauge          4       0          0  = ==-
Agro Inputs
Urea (ton)                300    500          0                                      _
TSP (ton)                 240    300          0
Chemicals (t)             3.6    1.8          0  =   =                                  l
Potato seed (t)           220    600          0
Other seed            $20000 $20000           0
Other Equipment               ____=  _
Research equip.(sum)   $35000       0         0     l
scanner                     1       0             l
theodolight                 1       0         0                                   _
plotter                     1 1     0         0  ===
breeder               $13000                  0                 _          __ 
shade cover (sq.m)       2400   2400       2400                    x
Slide Projector             0       1         1=                                       1
Portable 0. Projector       0       1         1         1                                     _
Diesel Engines              0      20        20   1              .
film production(sum)    S64000      0         0  = =              =                  =      =     -
poster production(sum)  $40000      0         0
small offset press          1       1         1=        1  -                   _     _     _    -
t4V c%AK- va }<



Cr.. 2045                                      WHADPIII                                ICR; Nov., 1997
Attachment 3
Table 2
LIST OF MAJOR EQUIPMENT DELIVERED BY PHASE III PROJECT
No' 7    ~-4*I  ~E9 uipment Description -              Ow
I   Toyota Helix (4x4) Double Cab Pickup Truck 95 Model    13  230,141.00
LN106L PRMRS+ Spare Parts
2   Toyota Helix (4x4) Single Cab Pickup Truck 95 Model    6   S7,170.00
LN106LTRMRS+ Spare Parts.
3   Toyota Dyna Tipper Truck 95 4'2 Model 'BU 61 L -   2   69,288.98
MDBT3.+ Spare Parts                                    I
4   Nissan Patrol Station Wagon TD 42 Diesel 'Engine +  2   49,793.89
Spare Parts
S   Water Browser MB 1317(4x2) Mercedes Benz + Spare    3   146,321.67
Parts
6   Massey Ferguson 390/4 WD 'Agricultural Tractor +   3   119,848.19
Spare Parts
7   Caterpillar Model 428B.Back Hoe+ Spare Parts       1   69,415.48
8   Mitsubishi Vehicles + Spare parts                  3   175,430.81
9   Two Photocoping Machines & 3 Facsimiles            5   10,000.00
10  Tildenet Shadow Netting                            8   2,323.20
11  Dynamometer                                        3   2,874.96
12  Tachometer                                         4   1,553.64
13  Device: for analyzing engine exhaust stream        2   9,440.42
14  Generator IOkw/12.5 KVA/380/220volt 3PH/5OHz 0.8Pt X 3   14,940.00
Spare Parts
15  Knapsack Sprayers Capacity 15lit.                  204 18,466.79
16  Mechanical Sprayers with tanks(1001it) 3HP         2   3,166.40
17  Video equipment's Spare Parts                      LMS 41,094.60
18  Computer + Accessories                             8   54,898.00
19  Survey and Drafting Equipment                      LMS 38,833.00
20  Water Monitoring Equipment                         LMS 65,300.00
21  Type Writer                                             2,100.00
22  Onion Seed Cleaner                                 1
23  Duplicators                                             17,110.00
24  Furniture Supplies                                 LMS 68,700.95
25  Suzuki Motor Cycle 125 c.c with Spare Parts        36  81,871.00
26  Electical Generator Engines & SP                   3   88,621.58
27  Air conditioners                                   8   7,080.00
28  Neutron Probe Trim Fm2                             4   33,644.00
29  Motor Grader Hitachi Mod FR75A with SP             1   138,993.81
30  Front End Loader Fiat Hitachi Mod FR130.2 With SP  1   117,150.37
31  Roller Compactor Bitelli Ghibli C100 with SP       1   82,601.73
32  Water Browser Bicchi 2B 5000TWB with SP            1   32,760.28
33  Pumps + Engines + SP                               22  239,805.00
34  Gabions + Filter Cloth(38800 m3)                        420,941.00
35  Spare Parts for KSB Submersible Pumps              LMS 59,371.50
36  Spare Parts for Komatsu Bull Dosers D40A & D40A3   LMS 77,862.00
37  Miscellaneous Equipment                            LMS 55,700.00



Cr. 2045                                                                      WHADPIII                                                                 ICR; Nov., 1997
STATUS OF CONTRACTS COMPLETED UNDER THE PROJECT
na~~~~ ~~                                                     .r,, :'o                                            /  .. .3.1 t1 t- X
SBid            Parts                   $18,o82Bo
Desig-  -~ Bid  esi~riptIo,  .~Confrac~.k~P  ~ Cost I      2i~~e o;   ~PIcI   ~ vai.~ep.                          'Cou1uaCa
Procurments                                                                                                                                 ____
1 194   A  13 Pick -Ups, Hilux, 4-WD DC  JPY 21.580.000  33),&0fl71    276,039.00
Spare Parts,                 $ 43,106.38
6 Toyota hilux. 4W0, SC      JPY 9,240,000
Spare Parts                  $ 18,382.8
2 Dyna Tipper Truck          JPY 3,900,000                                 17.09.94     22.12.94      14.09.94      20.09.94     27.09.94      25.11.96
Spare Parts                  $ 7,769.82
B  2 Units NISSAN with SP       JPY 4,510,080   49,793.89    34,327.30
Spare Parts                  JPY 895,000                                                                                                                  I
2/94    A  3 units Agric. Tractors with SP  GBP 78,654.42   189,263.67    130,810.46
One unit Industrial Tractor with SP  $ 69,507.16
B  3 Units Water Bowsers        $ 134.088       146,321.67    100,297.27      17-10-94     01-01-95      21--95        23-09-95      061095       20-07-96
Spare Parts                  $ 28,427.
C  1 cargo Truck & 1 cargo Truck with JPY 19,102.788  175,430)81  121,769.76
Crane & 1 Dump Truck, all with SP                     .                                        .
4/94    A  Misc. Equipment for Forestry and  $ 45,970.00  45,968 83   31,458.90
PMU:
B  Two Electric Generators with  GBP 8,938.8    13,697.89    9,402.49         16-10-94     16-01-95      25-09-95      28--95        2006.95      10-04-96
Spare Parts
5194    A  Knapsack Sprayers (15 L)      GBP 12,240.00  18,466.79     12,654.72
B  2 mechanical Sprayers;       $ 3,166.40     44,150.79     30,295.88        16-10-94     15-01-95      11-0495       15-04-95      19.06-95     11)04-96
Video equipments & SP        $ 41,094.60
6194    A  Survey & Drafting Equips.     SFr 48,153.00    129,130.94    89,229.15
Water Monitoring equipments  SFr 80,977.00
TypewrNters                  SFr 2,607.00                                  11-01-95     11-02-95      14-0-95      27-08-95      21-10-95     10-04-96
Submersible Pumps & SP       SFr 7,587.00
B  Computers & Accessories      $54,898.00      54,725.54    38,205.68                           __                                    _
7194       Office Fumdture               $ 61 830.00    62,530.25     42,021.32       09/111 94     25-12-94      0604-95       08-04-95      16-6-95      15-11-95
1196       36 Nos. SUZUKI MotorCycles&SP  JPY7770,9rjD   72,073.54    49,476.97       11-07-95      15-08-95      1409-95       20D9-95      2i-10-95      25-0596
2/96    A  Electric Generators &SP&Balances. GBP 111,58.00   18,429.00  13,163.00                                                                          03.08.96
B  Air Condiioners (8)          $ 7,00.0)       7,060.0)     5,057.00         11.07.95     20.08.95      19.11.95      29.11.95      01.02.96      11.10.96
C  Neutron Probe;               DF 5013         29,500.00    21,071.00                                                                             01.10.96
_______  Heavy Equipment wih SP         $ 3B0.606. 1l9    379,322.13    273,090.28    02.03.96     13.04.96      08.09.96      r9609.96      02.10 96      02.02.97
6&96       20 Desteco Pumps              $ 83,611.0)    239,805.78    165,053.52                           .                                _
Spare Parts                  $ 12,600.00                                   24.02.96     02.03.96      22.04.96      01.05.96      20.07.96      22.11.96
20 Parldns Engines           $ 124,850.00
Spare Parts                  S18,7440                      __
7194       Gabions & Fitter Cloth        $ 123, 73000    1273030.00    85, 781.80     10-06-95      10-995   -   19-11-95       29-11-95     0696          30.11.97
( rt



Cr. 2045                                                                       WHADPIll                                                                  ICR; Nov., 1997
STATUS OF CONTRACTS COMPLETED UNDER THE PROJECT
Items                      1JIfDtO                                                                               
ll Bid                        ~~~~~~~~~~CPOs In Ttl         Ipa                        'IDt   f         Sending        Daeof         Dteo          Date of
Desig-   BidDescription                 C        t Cios Ois                      j; ! ,  ) .ateofo Bi                           WB No.       Contfact    'Go
niation                            .~C6rec    ,.  .SS               IXD           1Avert.,    eg)nmdi  1..~ tcW                 biection [  Slanina~   Deive&lL:
Direct   1 SpareParts for KSB Pumps,Hansen DEM 84,718.00  56,818.60   39,028,15     _
Pur-    2  Spare Parts for Komatsu Bulldozer  $ 77,86200  76,902.88   54,868.22                                                  01.04.96                          ....
chase   3  Parts Lathe Tools, B&Hickman  GBP 20,255.78   32,408.00    25,148.00      _                                           01.04 96
4  Diesel Engine & Pumps,Local Purch. $ 18,820.0D  18,820.00  13_443_OD                                                 04 12.96
5  Gabions & Filter Cloth, Maccafferi  $ 297,211.20    297,327.89    214,892.Oi                                          06 12.96
6  Onion Seed Thresher           $ 19,58-19.  5    83.55      14,376.14                                                  170696                        :
7 Office Fumiture & Supplies    S 91,510.62    9165_67_i78.00 __                    _ ._..                               25.08697                 :
8  Electrical Supplies for Training  $ 25,931.59  25,931.59   19,t002.38                                                 25.08697
,Center & Guest House
Civil Works
B/96    A  Construction of Al-Qatn Forestry    $ 54735.74  54,735.74  39,096.96                                                  31 12.95       27.02.96      30.10.96
Nursery, Extension of Fruit
Nursery;Building 2 water Tanks                             _       i________
B  Construction of Vehicle Shed  $ 14264.31     14,26431      10,188.79     _                                            15.1296       29002.96      150596
3/36       Constructionof tour ResearchS    $330147.3  330,147.31    235,819.51        18-11-95                                 01.04.96       25.0596       1408.97
Extension Centers
10196       Construction oftl'aining Center   $ 184040C0  184,040.00    131,457.14                              |            |  010496          190696   |        010697
17r9G      Construjction of Guest Houise  $182,312.00   182,312.00    113022286     I  26.03.96      22.0496   |  27.07.96   |300796            180B.96       04 06.97
1 8196     Construction of Project HO Fence   $ 538.28  53,806.28     38,434.49     _              _                             01 04.96
Construction of Sand Dune     $ 3976.00      3,976.00      2,840.00
Mechanical controt(Forestry)                                                      .
SPate lrriaation& Flood Protection
1196      WadiDuan  (13 sites)          $76,671.11     76,671.11     54,765.03
12$96      Wadi Amd  (8 sies)            I 56,375.22    56,375.22     40,268.01 _   |                                               ______04-0S-96 |
13/96     $WadiAl-Ayn (6 sies   .          53,168.25    53,168.25     37,977.32     |             |                              _______
1496       Wadildim   (6 sites           $93,255.70     93,255.70     66611.21         30-12-95      06-01-96   1             1                            _ I
-DarAl-Wadi                    $8,569.55      8,559,55     6,121.11      1             1______
15/96      A1-Jawada & Otfa              $ 33,274.29    33,274.29    |23,767.35        01-12-95      09-12-95  |              |                 25-12-95     01.05.1996
16/96      Shebam Protection and Spate   $880080         88060.08 '62 9(.00                                                    ________     |             1
|Bin-Yamani                   1$36,803      136,808.08     26267.86                                                 __________    01.06.97         15.09.97
Maintenance of Agr. Feeder Roads 1$313,950O  1313,950.00   1224,250.00    1           1               _            _              _        _
Technical Assitance
Trust Fund FAG technical Assistance & Training $1,985,313.1    1,965,313.10   1,391,49B.70                                   1            1
I   e                     1                     1              1       A_                             _                   _   e en                            _     _t1
TA   |Payment for TA of Individual   $91,720.08     91,720.00     65,514.29                                                |    _        I f_  f_f__|
Expertise  of paynet n       y       n_Al
Note:IDA Advices for10% of paymnets not recived yet for Contracts 1/94 A~;84 A&B;   - __________   _____-_____    _____-0 



Cr. 2045                                                                           WHADPIII                                                                       ICR;, Nov., 1997
WADI HADRAMOLJT ARICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA CREDIT NO. 2045-YDR (XDR 5,300,000)
Disbursement Status As in Withdrawal Applications
SrApliato               tppIcattfl 9tMti                          ,,,                                                            T 7        c D )
isquance., ~  ~         ~         ~          *v~!~
1               Canceled
2    02,11.91   Amend. No. 3 for UTFNYEM1019 FAO; FAO of the UN           Fl Direct      3          US$          200,641.53    140,091.25   5,159,908.75
Cost for Technical Assistance upto                       Payment                200,0Ci.00
31.12.92                                                                                                                   _ _   _ _ _
3    18.11.92   Salaries S Dues for Mr. J.B Aketaev  Mr. J.B. Aketaev, Hydro.    Fl Direct  3       US$            9274.40       6,501.64  5,153,407.11
from 23.3.92 to 23.9.92         Expert                   Payment                 9,271.25
4    05 12.92   Being extending costs for CTA to  FAO/ UN; UTFNYEM1019   Fl Direct       3          US$           50,027.98     35,278.67  5,118,128.44
31.3.92                                                  Payment                 50,0C0i.r.0
5    06.04.93   Being cost of spare parts for KSB  JOS. HANSEN, Hamb.     Fl Direct      I          DEM           85,505.06     60,259.25   5,057,829.19
Submersible Pumps               Germany                  Payment                138,841.10
6    03.05.93   Salaries & Dues for Mr J.B Aketaev,  Mr J.B. Aketaev, Hydro.    Fl Direct  4        US$            8,537.66      5,976.78   5,051,852.41
Hydro. Expert                   Expert                   Payment                 8,544.03C
7    21,09.93   Salaries & Dues for Mr J.B. Ketaev,   Mr J.B. Aketaev, Hydro.    Fl Direct  4       US$           17,648.70     12,694.71   5,039,157.70
_ ________ Hydro, gxpert                    Expert                  Pymnt                    7,742.00
8                Canceled                                                                                                                   5,039,157.70
9    21.07.94   Salaries & Dues for Mr. J.B. Aketaev, Mr. J.B. Aketaev, Hydro    Fi Direct  3       US$           14,141.87      9,533.48  5,029,624.22
_____Hydra. Expert                    Expert                  Payrnent                14__159 76 _____
10  25.09 94   Being Initial Amount for Special  Project Special Account with Fl Direct  SA         USS          40G,149.22    268,185.74   4,761,438.48
Account                         the Central Bank of Yemen  Payrnent             400,000.C0
11   25.09.94   Cost Cover of TA & Training for FAO  FAO of the UN        PI Direct      4          US$          504,869.22    343,780.53   4,417,657.95
/UN Trust Fund 019                                       Payment                50O,0GO.OO
12   02.04.95   Salarles & Dues for Mr J.B. Ketaev,  Mr J.B. Aketaev, Hydro.    Fl Direct  4        US$            9,585.00      6,214.86   4,411,443.03
Hydra. Expert                   Expert                   Payrnent       -        9,585.00_______
13  25.07.95   Cost af Misc. EquipmentEfrForpstry  NEWORLD Res. Corp New F2 By Irrevoc-    3        US$           45,968.83     31,458.90  4,379,984.19
& PMU                           York                     able UC               _45,970.00
1 4   25.07.95  ICost of Knapsack Sprayers (15 1.    Starlight Indus., London. UK( F2 By Irrevoc-    3  GBP       t8,466.79     12,654.72   4,367,329.47
capacity)                                                able 1/C12400
15  25.07.95   Cost of tech. Sprayers & Video    AGRAR HOLLAND B.V.   a2 By Irrevoc      3          US$           44,150.79     30,295.88   4,337,033.59
Equipment                                               -able U/C               44,2                                                                       >
16  24.09.95   Cost of two units Electric Generators  Geest Overseas of UK  F2 Bylrrevoc  3         GBP            3,697.89      9,402.49  4,327,631.10                     r
with Spare Parts                                        abI  UC                  8 938.80                                _)
-r_ :
CD .t



Cr. 2045                                                                           WHADPIII                                                                         ICR;, Nov., 1997
WADI HADRAMOUT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA CREDIT NO. 2045-YDR (XDR 5,300,000)
Disbursement Status As In Withdrawal Applications
Sr  Application  ";pNAppIIcatIQoDetie        , 
Date of                                                                                        I  Igp   "'     I  A   29Wt            a~c  XR 
Is!fitancp
17   15.10.95   Cost of 19 Nos. TOYOTA Hilux Pick- AUTOMOTIVE&M           F2 ByIrrevoc-    3         JPY         366,811.08     253,218.82   4,074,412.28
ups & 2 Nos. DYNA Trucks        MACHINERY T. CENTER, able UC                   34,720,000 oo
Dejebuti                                          & US$
69,288.98__
18   15.10.95   Cost of two units NISSAN Station  TEHAMA Trading Corp.,   F2 Bylrrevoc-   3          JPY           49,793.89     34,327.30  4,040,0B4.98
Wagon                           Sana'a                   able LIC               5,407,000 .0
19   15.10.95   Cost of 36 NosSUZUKI Moter Cycles Sabah Trading CoopA\Sanaa F2 By Irrevoc-    3      JPY           72,073.54     49,476.97  3,930,608.01
With SP                                                  able LUC               7,770,960.00
20   15.10.95   Cost of Survey & Drafting Equip.  GED Science, Switzerland  F2 By Irrevor-    3      CHF          116,398.94     80,306.15  3,910,301.86
Typewriters & Other Equip.             ___________  able L/C                          160.540.00                  ______
21   25.10.95   Cost of 3 units Agric. Tractors with   MASSEY FERGUSON of  F2 Byl rrevoc-    3       GBP          119,848.19     82,954.93  3,827,346.93
Spare Parts                     UK                       able UC                 78L654.42
22   25.10.95   Cost of one unit Industrial Tractor with CATERPILLAR, Switzerland F2 By Irrevoc-  3  US$           69,415.48     47,855.53  3,779,491.40
Spare Parts                                              able C                  69,507.16
23   25.10.95   Being 9D% of total cost of Office  Al-Ahgaf Corp., Selyun  Fl Direct      3     USS 61,830.86      62,530.25     42,021.32  3,737,470.08
Furniture                                                Payment
24   14.11.95   Cost of 3 units Mitsubishi Trucks with Nissho Awai Corp. Japan   F2 By Irrevoc-    3  JPY         175,430.81    121,769.76  3,615,700.32
spare parts    _                                         able UC               19,102,700.00
25   26.11.95   Cost of six (6) units Computers &    MANGO Trading Services, F2 By Irrevoc-    3     US$           49,335.54     34,385.6B   3,581,314.61
Accessories                     CA, USA                  abe UC                  54!898.00
26   26.11.95   Being Salaries from 115.3.95 to  JENAT BEK AKETAEV        Fl Direct       4          US$           15,616.06     10,505.32  3,570,809.29
15.6.95 + Air-tickets cost      INDDOSUEZ BANK,          Payment                 15,572.00
27   09.12.95   Cost of Spare Parts of KSB       M/S JOS HANSEN 7         F2 By Irrevoc-  3          DEM           56,818.bO     39,028.48  3,531,780.81
Submersible Pumps               SOEHNE,Hamburg,          able L/C                84,718.00
28   31.12.95   Being Second Advance for Estimated  FAO - UN              Fl Direct       4          US$          252,181.60    173,418.42  3,358,362.39
expenditures up to 31.03.96                              Paynment               252.0_0DP e
29   31.12.95   100% of cost of three (3) unis Water Mercedes-Benz - Germany  F2 By Irrevoc-  3      US$          146,321.67    100,297.27  3,258,065.12
Bowsers with Spare Parts                                 able UC                 162,51500
30         _              _., .     .                 _    _             -       . .                 l              _         _ _           3,258,065.12
31   Canceled                                                                                                 ______-3,258,065.12                                             t
32   13.4.1996  Cost of Spare Parts for Comatsu  Toyota Trading Comp Ltd   F2 By Irrevoc-    3       US$           76,902.88     54,868.22   3,203,196.90                    ,t
_ _ _ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ able U/C _.: 
_______  _____________________    C.P.0   OSAKA   Japan   al   C                 77,882.03 0_        _  _     _  _  _
33 .                                                                                                                      .            . __  _  3,203,196.90  
o  D



Cr. 2045                                                                          WHADPIII                                                                      ICR;, Nov., 1997
WADI HADRAMOUT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA CREDIT NO. 2045-YDR (XDR 5,300.000)
Disbursement Status As In Withdrawal Applications
Sr  Applilcatlon      Appalc-tio.                                                                       Ir n', .--Totl;,. Balpnc (XDR)
L ssuan.                         * .. ',' .     .          ...........q....... n;,  pJlt9.' !;.  p3 of
34   15.4.1996  Cost of Gabion and Filter Cloth  Link Middie East Limited-   F2 Bytfrrvoc-  1      US$          123,73D006     85,781.80  3,117,415.10
_______                         ~~~~~~Dubai U.A .E.      ableC u123 730.00    ____
35    .___ _                           ._ __ ._ _ _                                                                    _              -   3,117,415.10
36   30 5.1996  Being Second Advance for Estimated  FAQ-UN               F1 DIrect      4          USS          438,196.71    304,569.77  2,812,845.33
_______  expenditures up to 31 .03.96                                 Payrnent    _____ 439,00D.oD______
37   29.7.1996  Being 1 OD% of the Total Cost for  Desteco Company Lebanon  =2 By Irrevoc-         US$          239,8C05.78   165,053.52  2,647,791.81
Purchase 20 Units Pumpsets with                         ,ble UC                239,805.78
Date__ ofSpare Parts
38   4.10.1996  Cost of Heavy Ayriculturai Machinery  Commissint Commissionaria F2 By Irrevoc-    3  US$        379,322.13    273,C1.28   2,374,701.53
_ __________    _____________________________ Du International-lTALY  able L/C            2380,36 .19
39  26.10.1996 Repienishment of Project Special    WHAP Phase iil        F1 Direct     SA          US$          2G5,279.15    142,908.27  2,231,793.26
_ _ _ _ _ _ Account                  .P..  ayment .....24855
40   9.1.1997   Replenishment of FAO Technical    FAO- UN                Fl Direct      4          US$          306,2196.7    2218056.73  2,812,936.53
Assistance Account    _______ ________    paymnent                             3D6 20D.CO3
41   27.03.1997 Second Replenishment of S/A upto   WHAP Phase lii       '1 Direct      SA          US$            SA                  -2,0G9l,936.53
exendtur31.01.1997 upto310396                            Payment                4391,0B7.00
42   07.05.1997 Suppiy of Gabions & filter Cloth  Maccaferri Co. Italy   F2 By Irrevoc-    3       US $         267,594.89    193,402.01   1,816,534.52
e 20 Us P t whable LIC                297,211.20             .
43   30.6.1997  Irrigation Worktsof Shibam       Khamis Zobair           F1 Direct pay  1       $53,04750D    53,137.49        39,164.07   1,777,370.45
434    12.7.97    Cost of Technical Assistance UMN FAQ FC Direct-pay                    4 .    $232,1976.     233,196.12      17203.42  12,34,8670.3
45  30. 6.1997  Replenishment of SA              Project Account        1F Direct pay     SA       U $1 45,05D.99  SA            ,        192   24,867.03
46  2.1.7.97    Cost of Project HO Fence        Irrigation 8 Land Reform    Fl Direct pay  1    $46,S.9$       46,03.9S        33,829.15  12,571,037.3
47   29.7.1997  Training Ctr costcert. 2+3       Ba-Sabaa                Fl Diretpay    1       $61,050.76     613,050.76      4,784.89   1,526,252.9
48   2.8.1997   Construction of Project Guest house  Ba-Hadi             Fl Direct pay          $5,45.84       58,450.84       43,0S.96  12483,167.03
49    0.9.1997  Construction of Research & Extension Ba-Sabaa            F1 DiredB pay  1       $75,484.32     75,488.96       55,3197,45   1 1427,849.5
_ _ _ _ _ _ Centers                                                                _______
50  20.9.1997  Releaseof Retention               Ba-Sabaa                Fl Direct pay  1        $8,350.81    85,332.476         ,1648.22  1,421,761.36
51   20.9.1997  Procurement ofFuniture forGust      International Centerfor  Fl Direct pay    3A  $91,510.62  91,516.62        67 062.6   1,354,8699.30
House and Training Center       Furniture                                              7            7             8.8    1      .
52  20.9.1997  Procurement of Electrical Equip. for  Messrs. Ai-Awlagge Shop   Fl Direct pay  3  $25,939.0G   25,930.06        19,062.38   1,335,196.92 r0
nGust Huse and Training Center    for Electricity s_                                                        _                                             r
53  21.9.1997  Purchase of Onion Seed Thresher    The Central Bank Of Yemen PI Direct pay  I  DKR 15,270.06   19,596.54        14,376.14   1,321,320.78              _ H
54  28.10.1997 Payment for Spate Construction   Irrigation & Land Reform    Fl Direct pay       $20,765.82    20,767.22        15,313.93   1,306,006.85
Works                                                                     ..           .                       _        ___ _.__
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             r-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft   g  f



Cr. 2045                                                                         WHADPIII                                                                     ICR;, Nov., 1997
WADI HADRAMOUT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA CREDIT NO. 2045-YDR (XDR 5,300,000)
Disbursement Status As In Wlthdrawal Applications
55  29.10.1997 Release of Retention             Mechanical Rental Station   Fl DIrect pay  1   $1,693.87      18693.87        1,243.00  1,304,763.85
56  28.10.1997 Spate Irrigation Works           Central Bank of Yemen   Fl Direct pay  1       $63,097.1 2   63,097.12       46,528.37  1,258,235.48
57  28.10.1997 Spate Irrigation Works           Irrigation & Land Reform    Fl Direct pay  1   $88,592.92    88,591.52       65,328.16   1,192,907.32
58  28.10.1997 Construction of Research & Extension Ba-Sabai            Fl Direct pay  1      $157,762.16    157,750.25     116,326.42  1,076,580.90
__ _ _ _ _ _ Centers__ _ _ _ _                                                               __  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
59  29.10.1997 Last Payment for Agr Training Center Ba-Sabaai           Fl Direct pay  1       $83,261.91    83,273.82       61,4D6.84  1,015,174.06
60  29.10.1997 Payment works to the Gust House and Ba-Sabaa             Fl Direct pay  I       $62,1 13.72   62,113.72       45,803.20   969,370.86
Training Center
61   11.12.1997 Being 10%of contract amount of proc- MANGO Trading Services, FiDirect  3       US$548930      5,490.00        4,030.00   965,340.56
urment of Coputers             CA, USA                 payment
62   11.12.1997 Being 10%of contract amount of prec- AUTOMOTIVE&M       Fl Direct      3      JPY3472000    29,755.00        21,843.00   943,497.86
urment of Vehicis              MACHINERY T. CENTER, Payment
Delebuti
63   11.12.1998 Belng 10%of contract amount of prec- GEO Selance, SwitZerland  Fl Direct  3   CHF15077.75    10,932.00        8,025.00   935,472.86
urment of Survay & Water Equipment                     Payment             I                                         I
Note: IDA Advices Not Received for Withdrawal Nos. 54 to 60.
IDA Advices Not Recieves for the 10% Off Payments for Withdrawals 17, 20, 25 7 42
r`
ft., (
-(t 1 t
C"
'-r'. Is



ANNEX C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2045-YEM)
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



YEMEN REPUBLIC: Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1: Total Project Costs in Current US$'
Category                  1991         1992         1993         1994         1995         1996        1997        Total
.....................................................................................    S$ 0 0.............................................................
Civil Works
Cat. I  -IDA                           -            -             -           -            -          249.5       1,329.3     1,578.8
- Gov.                        56.1         55.6         13.4         5.0          5.0         113.6        133.6      382.3
Sub-total                    56.1         55.6         13.4         5.0          5.0         363.1       1,462.9     1,961.1
Farm Inputs
Cat. lI  - IDA                         -            -            -            -            -           239.8         -         239.8
- Gov.                         -            -           13.0         10.0         10.0          -           -          33.0
Sub-total                     -            -           13.0         10.0        10.0          239.8         -        272.8
Vehicles and Equipment
Cat. III - IDA                         -            -           85.5          -           62.5       1,374.3       729.4      2,251.7
- Gov.                        54.0         53.9          -            -            -            -           -          107.9
Sub-total                    54.0         53.9         85.5          -           62.5       1,374.3       729.4      2,359.6
Technical Assistance and Training
Cat. IV   - IDA                      200.6          -           85.5        519.0         25.2        706.1        598.5      2,134.9
- Gov.                       380.2        360.2        88.8         122.0        124.0        163.6       122.5      1,361.3
Sub-total                   580.8        360.2        174.3       641.0        149.2        869.7        721.0      3,496.2
Total IDA                             200.6         0.0         171.0        519.0         87.7       2,569.7      2,657.2     6,205.2
Total Gov.                             490.3       469.7        115.2        137.0        139.0        277.2        256.1      1,884.5
Total Project Costs                    690.9       469.7        286.2        656.0        226.7       2,846.9      2,913.3     8,089.7
See also Table 8A in Part II.                                                                                                                     (D
(D X



YEMEN REPUBLIC: Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 2: Investment Costs in Constant 1997 Prices
Consumer Prices         Inflator        Total Inv. Costs        Total Inv. Costs          Exchange            Total Inv. Costs
Index                               Current Term         Constant 1997 Prices          Rate              Local Currency
(USA)'                                (US$'OOOy)              (US$'000)             1 US$ = YR'             (YR'OOO)
1990              100.0               1.22                  -                      -                     12.01
1991              104.2               1.17                 691                     808                    12.05                 9,742
1992              107.4               1.14                 470                    536                    33.10                 17,742
1993              110.6               1.10                  286                   315                    48.62                 15,315
1994              113.4               1.08                  656                   708                    80.75                 57,171
1995              116.6               1.05                 227                    238                   121.05                 28,810
1996              120.0               1.02                2,845                  2,902                   128.19               372,007
1997              122.0               1.00                2,913                  2,913                   129.00               375,777
IMF: Internal Financial Statistics: July 1997.
2 See Table 1.
Central Bank of Yemen.
ax
- (D



Annex C
Table 3
YEMEN REPUBLIC: Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 3: Project Area: Spate Irrigation
Crop Budgets per ha
1.  Without Project
Crop           Price           Yield         Revenue           Cost        Net Revenue
Z Z I    YR/t        tlha           YR/ha           YR/ha           YR/ha
1. Dates'          45,000           3.0           135,000         29,6002         105,400
2. Sorghum
- Grains         30,000           0.6           18,000          12,000          6,000
- Stalks         4,000            1.2            4,800           ......         4,800
3. Sesame           71,500           0.4           28,600          19,300           9,300
2. With Project
Crop            Price          Yield         Revenue           Cost        Net Revenue
YR/t           ttha           YR/ha           YR/ha    |    YR/ha
1. Dates            45,000           4.5          202,500         43,0503         159,450
2. Sorghum
- Grains          30,000           0.8           24,000         13,000          11,000
- Stalks          4,000            1.6           6,400            ......        6,400
3. Sesame            71,500          0.50           35,750         23,160          12,620
4. Pulses            80,000          0.60           48,000         25,000         123,000
(Cowpeas)
5. Fooder            8,000           2.4           19,200          3,500           15,700
(Sorghum)
Source: PMU.
Based on 100 trees/ha.
2 Including 6 days hired labor for pruning at YR600/day=YR3,600; Baskets at YR25,000 to be replaced  every
two years=YR12,500; and Land rent equivelant to 1/10 of production=YR13,500.
3 Including 8 days hired labor for pruning at YR600/day=YR4,800; Baskets at YR36,000 to be replaced  every
two years=YR18,000; and Land rent equivelant to 1/10 of production=YR20,250.



Annex C
Table 4
YEMEN REPUBLIC: Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4: Total Project Net Production Values in Financial Terms
1.  Without Project
Crop                 Area               Net Revenue            Total Revenue
ha       T          YR/ha                 (YR'000)
1. Dates                    1,863                 105.000                195,615
2. Sorghum
- Grains                   526                  6,000                  3,156
- Stalks                  (526)                 4,800                  2,525
3. Sesame                      93                   9,300                   865
Grand Total                 2,482                                        202,161
2.  With Project
Crop                 Area               Net Revenue            Total Revenue
ha                  YR/ha                 (YR'00O)
1. Dates                    1,863                 159,450                297,055
2. Sorghum
- Grains                  1,296                 11,000                 14,256
- Stalks                 (1,296)                6,800                  8,813
3. Sesame                     202                  19,740                  3,987
4. Pulses (Cowpease)          122                 23,000                  2,806
5. Fodders (Sorghum)          567                 15,200                  8,618
Grand Total                 4,050                                        335,535
Source: PMU
See details in Table 3.



YEMEN REPUBLIC: Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 5: Economic Prices for Major Agricultural Outputs and Inputs (Import Parity Prices)
Dates" |  Sorghum           Sesame 2/      Soybeans        Fooder1   |    Urea             TSP
I  (Grains)   I              I  (Pulses)2      (Sorghum) |
.t.............................................................................  on)........................................
Price projection 2005 in costant 1990 terms3                      97.3                         247.0                          140.0          118.3
MUV index                                                         1.077                         1.077                         1.077          1.077
Price projection 2005 in constani 1997 terms                       105                          266                            151            127
Quality adjustment factor                                          1.0                           0.9                             1              1
Adjusted Fob value                                                 105                          239                            151            127
Freight and insurance                                               50                            50                            50             50
Cif value at port of entry                                         155                          289                           201             177
.t..............................................................................  on)...................................(YR/
Cif value at port of entry4                                      19,995                        37,281                        25,929         22,833
Port dues, handling                                               6,000                        6,000                          6,000          6,000
5
Transport/storage/losses                                          3,000                        5,600                          3,900          3,400
Value ex-store/market                                            28,995                        48,881                        35,829         32,233
Transport market/farm                                            (1,000)                       (1,000)                       (1,000)        (1,000)
Farmgate price economic                           45,000         27,995         48,000         47,881          8,000         34,829         31,233
Farmgate price financial                          45,000         30,000         71,500         71,500         8,000          40,000         35,800
Conversion factors                                  1.00          0.93           0.67           0.67           1.00           0.87           0.87
I  Considered as non tradable.
2  Same conversion factors as Soyabeans (0.67), applied to Cowpeas.
3  World Bank Commodity Price Projections November 1997.
4  Exchange rate: I US$ = 129 YR (end of 1997).
5  Estimated at 15% of Cif value.
(D
(D x
Un 0



Annex C
Table 6
YEMEN REPUBLIC: Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6: Project Area: Spate Irrigation
Crop Budgets per ha in Economic Terms
1.  Without Project
Crop           Price'          Yield         Revenue        CostYR/ha      Net Revenue
YR/t           t/ha           YR/ha                           YR/ha
1. Dates           45,000           3.0           135,000         27,8002         107,200
2. Sorghum
- Grains         27,995           0.6            16,797         11,3003          5,497
- Stolks          4,000           1.2            4,800           ......          4,800
3. Sesame          48,000            0.4           19,200          16,7903         2,410
2.  With Project
Crop            Price          Yield          Revenue          Cost        Net Revenue
l    YR/t            t/ha           YR/ha           YR/ha          YR/ha
1. Dates            45,000           4.5           202,500        40,4002         162,100
2. Sorghum
- Grains          27,995           0.8           22,396         11,3003         11,096
- Stolks           4,000           1.6           6,400           ......          6,400
3. Sesame           48,000           0.50          24,000          13,9003         10,100
4.Pulses             59,200          0.60          28,729          21,7503         6,979
(Cowpeas)
5.Fodder             8,000           2.4            19,200         3,5003          15,700
(Sorghum)
Source: PMU.
I As indicated in Table 5.
2 Conversion factor for production costs = 0.94: based on 50% opportunity cost for labor (Table 3).
3 Conversion factor for production costs = 0.87: based on conversion factor for fertilizer (Table 5).



Annex C
Table 7
YEMEN REPUBLIC: Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7: Total Project Net Prodiuction Values in Economic Terms
1.  Without Project
Crop                 Area               Net Revenue'           Total Revenue
ha                  YR/ha                  (YR'000)
1. Dates                     1,863                107,200                 199,714
2. Sorghum
- Grains                -  526                   5,497                  2,891
- Stolks                   (526)                 4,800                  2,525
3. Sesame                      93                  2,410                    224
Grand Total                  2,482                                        205,354
2.  With Project
Crop                  Area              Net Revenuel            Total Revenue
ha                  YR/ha                  (YR'000)
1. Dates                     1,863                162,100                 301,992
2. Sorghum
- Grains                  1,296                  11,096                 14,380
- Stolks                 (1,296)                 6,400                  8,294
3. Sesame                     202                  10,100                  2,040
4. Pulses (Cowpeas)            122                  6,979                   851
5. Fodder (Sorghum)           567                  15,700                  8,902
Grand Total                  4,050                                        336,459
Source: PMU.
Test
See details in Table 3.



YEMEN REPUBLIC: Wadi Iladramawt Agricultural Deveiopmcnt Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 8: Economic Rate of Return
YR Million
Project Years  Investment Costs 11/  Net revenues 2/ |  Balance  lIncremental Balance |  IRR
WO Proj. 0                      0          205.4         205.4                 0    10.1%
Year 1                        9.7          205.4         195.7              -9.7
Year 2                       17.7          205.4         187.7             -17.7
Year 3                       15.3          205.4         190.1             -15.3
Year 4                       57.2          227.4         170.2             -35.2
Year 5                       28.8          249.4         220.6              15.2
Year 6                        372          271.4        -100.6              -306
Year 7                      375.8          293.4         -82.4            -287.8
Year 8    3/                   40          315.4         275.4                70
Year 9                         40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 10                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 11                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 12                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 13                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 14                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 15                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 16                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 17                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 18                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 19                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year2O                         40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 21                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year22                         40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year23                         40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year24                         40          336.5         296.5              91.1
Year 25                        40          336.5         296.5              91.1
F_3 
1/ See tables 1 and 2 for details.
2/ See tables 6 and 7 for details.                                                                         (D 4
3/ From year 8 onwards YR 40 million are included as estimated annual O&M costs.                           co n



IBRD 21479R
SAUDI  ARABIA              ,                                                                                   REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT                                                                                                        '
I  ,'                                                                                        DEVELOPMENT  PLAN                                                                                                                                         Al Gh.,h.l
REP. OF YEMEN                      4                                                                                     KILOMETERS IO                                                                                             T' 'mO A-OAt
'Al M.koI.         -                                                                      MILES
AS' 20                                        _mo                                         h E     .            0dQdo                                                         T  TSUWAYRI STATE FARM
y . b . i ~~l ~h                                                       ,,Av> a   t^QUWK(3h5      
Al l, 00
Gh-,ey S-h-l Q-"                                                                                                                                              F.v \19a
(350)                                              (IOD)
1150,                                      30                                                                                                                      ( 0
/                        PM,. I n_  T *_  O__ Aooi { 0_  #O
HLlyn(n \   Al 5atnu   __ _ > ~~~~~~~~?                                            >     2S01                                                                          /                       *      p opo,ed Ph~o Ill Spolo De,e opmen   h:s,s
_____,_A --                                                                                           "7s   ,@.>,.,._.IA
/                                     p          S,\jo \,d  p-b,ko
\                                                                                                                        _El   Aspholt Coopod Ho-k
*      ~            ~~                                                                                                                                                                          / A   .5.d\EoozclZn5ud
EM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~ ~ wElOpoCo  Moo d                                                                                                               h _p  2nlo  o , bd tl
/                                                                                                              0                                                       Po,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sy,,.o  1Op~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'lT op~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0i0oRhl)1i,H- ,.,,
Ph/R I         Al..,  Po
-1540
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~ 
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A,poll Rd
j                                                                                                                                                 -Moo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  T,oo-, o-d C.bbAd Rood,
0                   0  '~~~~~~AI~ M.Rh.d                                                                                                                                                                                      ----Cbbl~ R..d~Oo,.0             WHod,    I
RE. 4.004.1.o ,oA,o d.,ooi.oEOO..1d, oO.oCfo,.m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~          ~          ~         ~        ~        ~        ,-k1 Z, Bd.,
APRIL11998



