Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2045 YDR
      (Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
               PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated October 30, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2045 YDR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   October   30,   1989,   between  PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC  OF  YEMEN  (the  Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (AFESD) a loan (the AFESD Loan) in
an amount of about 2,500,000 Kuwaiti dinars to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in an agreement
(the AFESD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and AFESD;
     (C)  the Borrower intends  to  contract  from Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (KFAED)  a  loan  (the KFAED Loan) in an
Page  2
amount of about 3,500,000  Kuwaiti  dinars  to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in an agreement
(the KFAED Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and KFAED; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MAAR" means the  Ministry  of  Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform of the Borrower;
     (b)  "Project  Area"  means  the  area  located  in  the Wadi
Hadramawt  valley  in  the  Al  Qat'n,  Shibam,  Seiyun  and Tarim
districts of Hadramawt  Governorates  and  such other districts as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time;
     (c)  "WHAP II" means  the  Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural
Project financed by  the  Association  pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement between the  Borrower  and the Association, dated
April 28, 1983;
     (d)  "WHAP  II  Project  Area"  means  the  project  area  in
WHAP II;
     (e)  "PMU" means  the  unit  established  under  WHAP  II and
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (f)  "IMU" means the unit  to  be established by the Borrower
within the PMU pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (g)  "MRS"  means  the  Machinery  Rental  Services operating
under MAAR;
     (h)  "NBY" means the National  Bank  of Yemen established and
operating under the Borrower's Law  No.  37 of 1969, as amended to
the date of this Agreement;
     (i)  "PCEP" means the Public  Corporation for Electricity and
Power of the Borrower;
     (j)  "LAC" means the Local  Advisory Committee constituted of
representatives of local organizations  in  the Project Area asso-
ciated with the Project;
     (k)  "CCSC" means the Central Coordination Steering Committee
established to  supervise  Project  operations  and constituted of
representatives  of  central  organizations  associated  with  the
Project; and
     (l)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an  amount  in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in NBY on terms and
conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 1999 and ending April 1, 2029. Each install-
ment to and including  the  installment  payable  on April 1, 2009
shall be one  percent  (1%)  of  such  principal  amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
Page  4
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MAAR with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate agricultural,  engineering,  administrative and finan-
cial practices, and shall provide,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain the PMU with qualified and experienced staff in
adequate numbers and with  terms  of reference satisfactory to the
Association; and
     (b)  establish and thereafter maintain  within the PMU an IMU
with qualified and experienced staff  in adequate numbers and with
terms of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Association, including
responsibility  for  monitoring  abstraction  and  utilization  of
groundwater and planning and coordinating the routine preventative
maintenance and  remedial  repairs  of  irrigation  structures and
pumps in collaboration with the MRS.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall  ensure the availability in
each year of fertilizer,  chemicals  and  seeds for all farmers in
the Project Area in the quantities and on the basis of a timetable
agreed with the Association to meet production targets.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall,  by  November  15 of each
year:
     (a)  furnish through the  PMU  to  the Association for review
and comment the work program,  draft budget and financing plan for
the Project for the following calendar year; and
     (b)  review with the  Association  the crop protection chemi-
cals proposed to be purchased by the Borrower during the following
calendar year for  the  Project  and  thereafter purchase only the
chemicals agreed with the Association.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that PCEP provide  adequate  power supply to operate the
pumps on the tubewells constructed under WHAP II and the Project.
     Section 3.06. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
Page  5
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  The engineering consultants  required  to  assist in the
design and supervision of civil  works, whose employment shall not
be governed by the provisions  of  paragraph (a) above, shall have
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  6
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the AFESD Loan Agreement  and KFAED Loan Agreement shall
have failed to become effective by  January 1, 1990, or such later
date as the  Association  may  agree;  provided, however, that the
provisions of  this  paragraph  shall  not  apply  if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction  of  the Association that adequate
funds for the Project  are  available  to  the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
                     the financing of the  Project shall have been
                     suspended, cancelled  or  terminated in whole
                     or in  part,  pursuant  to  the  terms of the
                     agreement providing therefor, or
                (B)  any such loan shall  have become due and pay-
                     able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
                if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
                the  Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
                cancellation, termination  or  prematuring  is not
                caused by the failure  of  the Borrower to perform
                any of its  obligations  under such agreement; and
                (B) adequate funds  for  the Project are available
                to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms and
                conditions consistent with  the obligations of the
                Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
     (a)  the AFESD Loan  Agreement  and  the KFAED Loan Agreement
have been executed; and
     (b)  the IMU referred to in  Section  3.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment has been established  within  the  PMU pursuant to the provi-
sions thereof.
     Section 6.02. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Planning  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
Page  7
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Planning
          P.O. Box 1193
          Aden
          People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                TAKHTEET                         2289 TAKHTEET AD
                AD
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                          By /s/ A. S. Al-Ashtal
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Vehicles, farm           5,330,000          100% of foreign
     machinery, equip-                           expenditures
     ment, spare parts
     and materials
Page  8
(2)  Farm inputs              2,000,000          100%
(3)  Consultants' ser-        1,370,000          100%
     vices and training
(4)  Unallocated                600,000
                              _________
     TOTAL
                              9,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Borrower for  goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to: (a) provide dependable
irrigation water supplies  through  tubewell  development; (b) im-
prove works for spate  irrigation;  (c) provide incremental inputs
for increasing cropping intensity in the WHAP II Project Area; and
(d) support agricultural development in the Project Area.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation Development
     Irrigation development of about 3,025 ha in 17 areas based on
groundwater through  construction  of  deep  wells, development of
irrigation  networks  and  on-farm  improvements  (including  land
levelling and rearrangement of fields for improved mechanized crop
production), construction of  about  16  km  of flood bunds, minor
spate remodelling works in  flood-prone  areas and construction of
farm access roads.
Part B:   Spate Irrigation Works
     Rehabilitation  of  traditional  spate  irrigation  works and
construction of flood protection works for about 2700 ha.
Part C:   Agricultural Development
(1)  Strengthening of the research  and extension services through
the provision of  technical  assistance, staff, training, vehicles
and equipment.
(2)  Development of fruit nursery  and  the provision of technical
assistance, staff, training, vehicles and equipment.
(3)  Improvement of farming efficiency through more intensive land
use in the Project  Area,  including provision of incremental pro-
duction inputs and farm machinery and spare parts for establishing
new crop rotations and cropping intensities.
(4)  Provision  of  training  and  equipment  to  strengthen  MRS'
machinery maintenance capability.
Part D:   Project Management
(1)  Strengthening of  the  PMU  and  the  provision  of technical
assistance, training, vehicles and equipment.
(2)  Establishment of the IMU  and  the provision of staff, train-
Page  9
ing, equipment and vehicles.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured in the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and  subject  to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of  the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $600,000, may be  procured  under contracts awarded on the
basis of price quotations  obtained  from at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.   Spare parts under Part C (3) and  D (1) of the Project, up to
an aggregate amount not  to  exceed  the equivalent of $1,000,000,
may be procured on the basis  of direct contracting with the prior
approval of the Association.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures  shall  be  modified  to  ensure that the
conformed copy of the  contract  required  to  be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the one conformed copy
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as  part  of the evidence to be furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
Page  10
basis of statements of  expenditure.  Such  contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ engineering and agricultural consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Association. Such con-
sultants shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
     The Borrower shall through MAAR:
1.   by June 30, 1990,  implement  measures  to improve the opera-
tions of the MRS  in  Seiyun  on  the  basis of terms of reference
satisfactory to  the  Association,  including  adjustment  of land
cultivation operations, expansion of servicing capacity and devel-
opment of a collaboratory role with the IMU;
2.   during the execution  of  the  Project, monitor the organiza-
tional structure and  financial  position,  including, inter alia,
trends in the long-term  debt/equity  ratios and total liabilities
of each of the cooperatives in the Project Area to ensure that the
viability of such cooperative is maintained;
3.   carry out the training provided  under the Project in accord-
ance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;
4.   ensure the availability  of  suitable  training and extension
support programs for farmers in the Project Area;
5.   maintain the activities of the LAC and the CCSC;
6.   by December 31, 1989,  enter  into  an agreement with NBY for
the provision of credit by NBY  to the cooperatives referred to in
paragraph 2 above to finance  the purchase of electric pumps, farm
machinery and crop  production  inputs,  which agreement shall set
forth the terms and conditions  on  the basis of which such credit
is to be provided; and
7.   by December 1 of each  year,  review with the Association the
interest rates for agricultural  credit  extended by NBY to ensure
that such interest rates are positive in real terms.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $700,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
Page  11
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories  less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the  General  Conditions  with respect to the Pro-
ject, shall  equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Association shall have been
Page  12
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account  shall  be  made  until  the  Borrower  has  provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
MEXICO - Finance and Trade Sector Loan
Issues                         Objectives                   Actions taken Before
                  Actions to be taken               Other Measures
                                                                         Board P
resentation                    Before Second Tranche
                               (By November 30, l989)
A.  Areas of Macroeconomic Management and Public Sector Planning
    1.  Macroeconomic Consistency
        - In order to ensure a         - A macroeconomic environment     - A sat
isfactory 1989 Budget      - Satisfactory assessment of the
          stable macroeconomic           for 1989-90 with low              has b
een approved by              medium-term macroeconomic
          environment in 1989, the       inflation and minimum             Congr
ess, envisaging: (a) an      framework and agreement on the
          projected operational          uncertainty about the main        incre
ase in tax revenues of       necessary policy actions to
          deficit and the sources        thrust of the economic            l.3%
of GDP; and (b) an           ensure the achievement of the
          of domestic pulic sector       policy.                           opera
tional deficit of 2.5%       macroeconomic program,
          financing should be                                              of GD
P and a primary surplus      including satisfactory progress
          consistent with the                                              of 7.
3% of GDP.  This is          on decontrol of prices.
          expected inflation, GDP                                          consi
stent with the macro-
          growth and possible                                              econo
Page  13
mic targets for l989.        Periodic consultations with the
          foreign borrowing.                                             8
                             Bank on the macroeconomic
                             framework and on progress on
        - Future of the "Pacto";
                             decontrol of prices.
          pressures on the nominal
          anchors.
    2.  Public Sector Planning and Budgeting
        - Improvements in              - Within the overall objective
          investment efficiency are      of recovering economic
          hampered by weak planning      growth via revived
          and budgeting systems.         investments, the Government
                                         needs to achieve greater
                                          - (a) By June 30, 1989, issuing
                                          guidelines for economic and
                                          financial evaluation and planning
                                          for public investment projects;
                                          (b) introducing multi-year
           Issues                           Objectives                       Act
ions taken                      Actions to be taken              Other Measures
                                                                         Before
Board Presentation             Before Second Tranche
                               (By November 30, l989)
                                       efficiency in planning,
                                                                 budgeting for p
ublic investments
                                       preparing and implementing
                                                                 by November 1,
1989; and (c)
                                       public investments.
                                                                 improvement of
externally funded
                                                                 investment impl
ementation by
                                                                 introducing by
January 1, 1990
                                                                 appropriate bud
geting methods to
                                                                 encourage the u
se of available
Page  14
                                                                 external fundin
g and by
                                                                 establishing a
central monitoring
                                                                 unit.
    3.  Public Sector Revenues
        - Erosion in tax base          - Increases in tax revenues       - To in
crease tax revenues in     - Satisfactory implementation of
          cumbersome tax                 through tax reform and            a sus
tainable manner, a           the Action Program.
          administration.                improved tax administration.      Techn
ical Assistance
                                                                           compo
nent has been included
                                                                           in th
e project to help
                                                                           imple
ment measures to
                                                                           impro
ve tax administrationl,
                                                                           corpo
rate tax changes that
                                                                           have
been implemented in the
                                                                           l989
budget are expected to
                                                                           rever
se erosion of corporate
                                                                           taxes
.
           Issues                           Objectives                       Act
ions taken                     Actions to be taken               Other Measures
                                                                         Before
Board Presentation             Before Second Tranche
                               (By November 30, l989)
    4.  State and Local Finances
        - Fall in the state            - Improvement in own tax          - An Ac
tion Plan has been         - Satisfactory implementation of      - Revision by N
ovember 1, 1989 to
          governments' own tax           raising effects.                  devel
oped and will be             the Action Program                    the revenue s
haring formula to
          revenues, particularly                                           incor
porated in the l990                                                give incentiv
es to states to
          property taxes.                                                  budge
t, to gradually reduce                                             increase thei
r reliance on their
                                                                           non-m
atching grants to the                                              own resources
 and to introduce
                                                                           state
Page  15
s.  According to the                                               similar incen
tives for their
                                                                           Plan,
 expenditures of line                                              municipal gov
ernments.
                                                                           Minis
tries in the states
                                                                           (i.e.
, non-matching grants),
                                                                           addit
ional over l989 levels,
                                                                           will
be spent thru Ramo 26
                                                                           (i.e.
, PDR/PNS development
                                                                           progr
ams), which requires
                                                                           state
s to match these
                                                                           expen
ditures.
        - Very serious                 - Reduce budget transfers to
                           - Action Program for increases in
          deterioration in user          the Federal District.
                             own revenues so as to reduce
          charges and property
                             budget transfers by at least
          taxes in the Federal
                             20% in the 1990 budget with
          District, requiring
                             respect to 1988.
          mounting transfers to
          cover services.
B.  Financial Sector
    1.  Forced Lending to Public Sector
        - Private Sector has           - Support the government's        - Recen
t reforms have
          extremely limited access       objective of having the           elimi
nated forced lending.
          to banking sector funds.       commercial banks respond
                                         only to market forces.
                                         Commercial banks should not
                                         be compelled to lend to the
                                         government or to any sector.
           Issues                           Objectives                       Act
ions taken                     Actions to be taken               Other Measures
                                                                         Before
Board Presentation             Before Second Tranche
                               (Before November 30, l989)
   2.  Competitive Environment
Page  16
        - Reduced bank competition     - To foster greater               - Inter
est rates on Bank
          and deposit mobilization.      competition between banks         depos
its have been
                                         thereby raising efficiency,       liber
alized; Transfer of
                                         and to mobilize more              clien
t's balances between
                                         deposits.                         banks
 and brokerage house
                                                                           has b
een allowed; these
                                                                           refor
ms have put both types
                                                                           of in
stitution on an equal
                                                                           footi
ng.
   3.  Development Banks and Credit Subsidies
        - Role of development banks    - To improve administrative       - New l
oans through               - Action Program, satisfactory to     -
          and trust funds unclear.       efficiency and ensure that        devel
opment banks and trust       the Bank, for the redefinition
          Subsidies inadequately         subsidies are well targeted       funds
 will not carry any          of the role of each Trust Fund
          controlled.                    and controlled.                   inter
est subsidies, except        and development Bank, including
                                                                           for l
ow income producers in       in particular a review of the
                                                                           agric
ulture (PBI). Subsidies      operations and finances of
                                                                           to PB
Is measured in               NAFIN, BANCOMEXT and BANOBRAS,
                                                                           compa
rison to the average         and restructuring of BanRural
                                                                           cost
of funds (CPP).  PBIs        and ANAGSA; so that their
                                                                           will
not exceed, as a             efficiency of operations will
                                                                           perce
ntage of GDP, the level      improve and fiscal transfers
                                                                           of l9
88.  Therefore, average      through BanRural and ANAGSA
                                                                           subsi
dy level will decline        would be substantially reduced.
                                                                           as ex
istingt subloans             In the meantime these
                                                                           matur
e.                           transfers, as percentage of GDP
                             will nogt exceed the budgeted
                             level for l989 (0.27% of GDP)
    4.  Bank Regulations and Supervision
        - Inadequate supervision       - To safeguard the solvency of    -Terms
of Reference of a study    - Action Program, satisfactory to
          and pruudential                the banking system and          of prud
ential regulations and       the Bank, for the strengthening
Page  17
          regulations.                   brokers.                        supervi
sion to be submitted         of potential supervision.  This
                                                                         for Ban
k review by May 15.          action program is expected to
                                                                         Study t
o be financed from the       address, among others, the
                                                                         loan.
                             following areas: (a) classify
                             banks' loan portfolios
                             according to default risk; (b)
                             more stringent provisioning for
                             loan losses and interest
                             accruals; (c) disclose the
                             state of each bank's financial
                             state in detail to the public;
                             and (d) improve and enforce the
                            supervision of brokers.
           Issues                           Objectives                        Ac
tions taken                     Actions to be taken              Other Measures
                                                                         Before
Board Presentation             Before Second Tranche
                               (By November 30, l989)
D.  Social Sectors
                                                                         "Progra
ma Nacional de             Satisfactory implementation of
    - Declining public expenditures    - Improve delivery mechanisms     Solidar
idad" launched in          the Program.
      have reduced outlays for           of social programs targetted    Decembe
r l988, adequately
      social programs and service        to the truly needy.             address
es the issues of the
      levels in the different                                            worst f
orms of poverty and
      regions are uneven.                                                helps a
lleviate the short term
                                                                         impact
of adjustment under an
                                                                         action
plan affecting 1200
                                                                         "munici
pios".  The l989 budget
                                                                         allocat
ion is US$450 million
                                                                         equival
ent, which would be
                                                                         increas
ed in l990.
E.  External Finance
Page  18
    - Mexico's adjustment program      - Ensure adequate financing       - Agree
ment in principle has      - Commitments have been obtained        - By effectiv
eness, made
      and recovery of growth needs       consistent with adjustment        been
reached on matching          to financing Mexico's                 substantial p
rogress in obtaining
      external financing in an           and growth targets.               Japan
ese cofinancing for the      requirements for 1988 and l990        adequate fina
ncing for Mexico's
      amount necessary to cover the                                        three
 proposed operations.        in the context of the                 requirements
for l988 and l990 in
      current account deficit and
                             adjustment program and growth         the context o
f the adjustment
      maintain reserves at                                               - Devel
opment of a medium-term      targets setforth in "Mexico's         program and g
rowth targets
      reasonable levels.                                                   finan
cing plan consistent         Economic Strategy" issued by          setforth in "
Mexico's Economic
                                                                           with
macro-economic and           SHCP.                                 Strategy" iss
ued by SHCP.- By
                                                                           growt
h targets and                                                      effectiveness
, made substantial
                                                                           satis
factory progress in                                                progress in o
btaining adequate
                                                                           discu
ssions with banks.         - Agreement in principle has been       financing for
 Mexico's
                             reached with major creditors          requirements
for l988 and l990 in
                             for a viable medium-term              the context o
f the adjustment
                             financing plan.                       program and g
rowth targets
                                                                   setforth in "
Mexico's Economic
                                                                   Strategy" iss
ued by SHCP.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
          The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide dependable
irrigation water supplies through tubewell development; (b) improve works
for spate irrigation; (c) provide incremental input for increasing cropping
intensity in the Phase II Area; and (d) support agricultural development in
the Phase III Area.
          The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  19
Part A; Irrigation Development
          Irrigation development of about 3,025 ha in 17 areas based on
groundwater through construction of deep wells, development of irrigation
networks and on-farm improvements  (including land levelling, rearrangment
of fields for improved mechanized crop production and trial irrigation),
the construction of about 16 km of flood bunds, minor spate remodelling
works in four flood-prone areas and the deepening of about 45 existing open
wells.
Part B; Spate Irrigation Works
          Rehabilitation of about 30 traditional spate irrigation works and
construction of flood protection works for about 2700 ha.
Part C: Agricultural Development
     (1) Strengthening of the research and extension service through the
provision of staff, training, vehicles and equipment.
     (2) Rehabilitation of mechanization of date production on about 275 ha
through the provision of technical assistance, vehicles and equipment.
     (3) Development of citrus fruit nursery and zizzyphus nursery and the
provision of technical assistance, vehicles and equipment.
     (4) Potato seed production support through the construction of a guest
house/office and two 200-ton open air storages and the provision of
technical assistance, training and vehicles.
     (5) Improvement of farming efficiency for more intensive land use in
the WHAP III Area and increasing the cropping intensities in the WHAP II
Area from the design level of about 100% to about 130%.
     (6) Provision of production inputs for establishing the new crop
rotations and crop intensities on the areas developed for irrigation under
WHAP III.r
Part D: Project Management.
     (1) Strengthening of the WHAP II Project Management Unit and the
provision of technical assistance, training, vehicles and equipment.
     (2) Establishment of an Irrigation Management Unit and the provision
of staff, training, equipment and vehicles.
          The Project is expected to be completed on            .
     (a) the       Loan Agreement and the      Loan Agreement have been
executed;
     (b) the PMU referred to in Section     of this Agreement has been
Page  20
established on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; and
     (c) the IMU referred to in Section    of this Agreement has been
established within the PMU on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association.
                         SCHEDULE 4
                    Implementation Program
The Borrower shall, through MAAR:
1 during execution of the Project, maintain the PMU with qualified and
experienced staff in adequate numbers whose terms of reference are
satisfactory to the Association;
1.by June 30 of each year, carry out (with the Association) a review  of
the operations of the Machinery Rental Service in Seiyun on the basis of
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including reduction of
land cultivation operations, expansion of servicing capacity and
development of a collaboratory role with the IMU.
2. during the execution of the Project, monitor the financial status of the
four cooperatives in the Project Area to ensure that the creditworthiness
of each such cooperative is maintained in accordance with          .
3. ensure the availability of suitable training and extension support
programs for women farmers in the Project Area.
4. maintain the activities of the Local Advisory Committees and the Central
Coordination Steering Committee.
5. carry out a training program under the Project in accordance  with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association.
6. ensure that fertilizers, chemicals and seeds for all farmers in the
Project Area are procured in the quantities and on the basis of a timetalbe
agreed with the Association to ensure targetted production of crops. 7.
ensure freedom of choice by farmers with respect to all agricultural
produce;
Page  21
8. make provisions for private wholesalers' or farmers' groups to
partcipate in the marketing of farm produce and provide such operators with
access to PCFVM storage and transport facilities at levels of charges
satisfactory to the Association.
(a) "MAAR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform of the
Borrower;
(b) "Project Area" means the area of about      km2 located in the Wadi
Hadramawt valley in the Al Qat'n, Shibam, Seiyun and Tarim cooperative
service areas of Hadramawt Governorate and extending from      to     ;
(c) "WHAP I" means the First Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project
financed by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
between the Borrower and the Association dated, April 22, 1076;
(d) "WHAP II" means the Second Wadi Hadramwt Agricultural Project financed
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, dated April 28, 1983;
(e) "PMU" means the unit established under WHAP II and referred to in
Section        of this Agreement ;
(f) "IMU" means the unit to be established by the Borrower within the PMU
referred to in Section       of this Agreement;
(g) "MRS" means the Machinery Rental Services established and operating
under the Borrower's Law No.       ;
(h) "PCMFV" means the Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruits and
Vegetables established and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 73 of
1976;
(i) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated        and           between the Borrower and the
Association;
(j) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall maintain the PMU with qualified and and
experienced staff in adequate numbers and with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
Page  22
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish within the PMU an IMU with
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers and with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, including responsibility for
monitoring abstraction and utilization of groundwater and planning and
coordinating the routine preventative maintenance and remedial repairs of
irrigation structures and pumps in collabration with the MRS.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by December 12, 1993, eliminate all
subsidies on electrcity tariffs charged in connection the use of irrigation
pumps.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by             , take all measures
necessary to enable the free operation of private wholesale traders in all
agricultural produce;
1.Civil works under Part B of the Project estimated to cost up to an
aggragate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,280,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2. Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison
of bids invited from a list of three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I
and II of the Guidlelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof)
3  Goods estimated to cost less that the equivalent of $25,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.s .
3. Spare parts under Part      of the Project may be procured on the basis
of direct contracting.
Page  23
