Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 72496-MU
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
FOR A
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE
DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
February 25, 2013
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
AFCS4 Country Management Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


﻿MAURITIUS - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of January 31, 2013)
Currency Unit = Mauritius Rupee
US$1.00 = Rs. 30.30
Weights and Measures
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB              African Development Bank
AFD               Agence Franqaise de Developpement (French Development Agency)
AFRITAC           Africa Regional Technical Assistance Center South
AFT               Aid for Trade
AMB               Agricultural Marketing Board
BOI               Board of Investment
BoM               Bank of Mauritius
BPO               Business process outsourcing
CMS               Customs management system
CPE               Certificate of Primary Education
CPI               Current Price Index
CPS               Country Partnership Strategy
DDO               Deferred draw down option
DPL               Development policy loan
DSA               Debt sustainability analysis
ESS               Education Sector Strategy
ESTP              Economic and Social Transformation Plan
EU                European Union
FDI               Foreign direct investment
GDP               Gross domestic product
HBS               Household Budget Survey
HPC               Housing and Population Census
HRMIS             Human Resources Management Information System
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA               Investment Climate Assessment
ICAC              Independent Commission Against Corruption
ICT               Information and communications technology
IMF               International Monetary Fund
IT                Information Technology
JEC               Joint Economic Council
KPI               Key performance indicators
MCSAR             Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms
MFN               Most Favored Nation
MID               Maurice Ile Durable (Sustainable Mauritius)


﻿MNF               Moving the Nation Forward
MNS               Mauritius Network Services Limited
MoBECC            Ministry of Business, Enterprise, and Cooperatives
MoEHR             Ministry of Education and Human Resources
MoFED             Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoU               Memorandum of Understanding
MoSIEE            Ministry of Social Integration and Economic Empowerment
MoSS              Ministry of Social Security, National Solidarity, and Reform
Institutions
MRA               Mauritius Revenue Authority
NDS               National Development Strategy
NEF               National Empowerment Foundation
NTBs              Non-tariff barriers
NTC               National Transport Corporation
NTMs              Non-tariff measures
OPSG              Office of Public Sector Governance
PBB               Program-based budgeting
PDMA              Public Debt Management Act
PEFA              Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment
PFM               Public financial management
PIMS              Parastatals Information Management System
PMT               Proxy means test
PPP               Public-private partnership
PRC               Permit Review Committee
PSC               Private sector competitiveness
PSIP              Public Sector Investment Plan
PSIA              Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
SADC              Southern African Development Community
SMEs              Small and medium-sized enterprises
SOEs              State-owned enterprises
SRM               Social Register of Mauritius
TVET              Technical and vocational education and training
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
ZEP               Zones d'Education Prioritaires (Priority Education Zones)
Vice President: Makhtar Diop
Country Director: Haleh Z. Bridi
Sector Director: Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager: John Panzer
Task Team Leaders: Rafael Mufioz Moreno/Will Wiseman
ii


﻿
﻿REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE
DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN PROGRAM SUMMARY ................................................................................................. v
PROGRAM DATA SHEET ................................................................................................... vii
I.       INTRODUCTION       .......................................................................................................... 1
II.      COUNTRY CONTEXT ............................................................................................ 3
A. Recent Developments And Macroeconomic Policy Framework in Mauritius................ 4
B.   Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability ........................... 6
III.     THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES ... 10
A. Government Program                 .........................................  ..... 10
Pillar 1: Prosperity for All...................          ......................  ..... 10
Pillar 2: Enhanced Connectivity....................................                   12
Pillar 3: Empowering People............................................. 13
Pillars 4 and 5: Cohesive Society and Strong Nation    ......................     ...... 14
Pillars 6: Sustainability................................................. 15
B.   Public Budget Consultative Process and Transparency    .................     ...... 16
IV.      THE BANK'S SUPPORT FOR THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM17
A. Link to the Country Partnership Strategy       ........................     ......... 17
B.   Collaboration with the IMF and other Donors      ........................   ..... 17
C.   Relationship to other World Bank Operations      ........................    ..... 19
D. Lessons Learned                ..........................................   ....... 19
E.   Analytical Underpinnings............................................ 20
V.       THE PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN. 22
A. Operation Description                                   ..................... ................... 22
B.   Policy Areas                                      .................................................... 26
B. 1 Strengthening Services to Support and Empower the Most Vulnerable..       ............. 26
B.2 Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes.............................. 33
B.3 Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service and the Monitoring of SOE
Performance.................................................... 38
VI.      OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................................... 47
A. Poverty And Social Impact...............              ....................   ...... 47
B.   Environmental Aspects.................              ...................... ..... 49
C.   Implementation, Monitoring, and Evaluation .............................. 49
D. Fiduciary Aspects               ...........................................    ..... 49
E.   Risks And Risk Mitigation            .....................................   ..... 50
iii


﻿ANNEXES
Annex 1: Operation Policy Matrix ...............................................53
Annex 2: Letter of Development Policy............................       ...................57
Annex 3: IMF Assessment Letter........................              ........................65
Annex 4: Statement of Loans and Credits........................          ..................69
Annex 5: Country at a Glance...................................................70
Annex 6: Map of Mauritius (IBRD 33446)......................................... 72
TABLES
Table 1: Exports and Tourist Arrivals, 2011 and 2012     ........................... ...... 5
Table 2: Selected Economic Indicators and Projections, 2009-2015             ..........7.........7
Table 3: Evolution of Proposed Triggers to Prior Actions for DPL2  ................. ..... 24
Table 4: Public Enterprise Debt (Rs millions unless otherwise indicated) ............. ..... 43
Table 5: The National Transport Corporation: Projected Cash Flows and Profits (Rs millions).. 46
Table 6: Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd .......................................... 46
FIGURES
Figure 1: Value Added as a Share of GDP (in percentage)   ................................. 3
Figure 2: Social Aid Payments           ......................................... ......... 27
BOXES
Box 1: The Impact of the European Economic Slowdown on the Mauritian Economy .............. 5
Box 2: Good Practice Principles on Conditionality.................................... 23
This Loan was prepared by an IBRD team consisting of Rafael Mufioz Moreno (Senior Economist, Co-Task Team
Leader), Will Wiseman (Senior Economist, Co-Task Team Leader), Sawkut Rojid (Economist), Brinda Devi Dabysing
(Private Sector Development Specialist), Gary J. Fine (Senior Private Sector Development Specialist), Margo A.
Hoftijzer (Senior Economist), Olivier Cadot (Consultant), Mariem Malouche (Economist), Kathrin A. Plangemann (Lead
Public Sector Specialist), Wolfgang M. T. Chadab (Senior Finance Officer), Khurshid Noorwalla (Team Assistant), Rita
Obioma Itoro-Godfrey (Program Assistant), Vasish Ramkhalawon (Operations Officer), Mariella Beugue (Program
Assistant), Joanna Alexandra Watkins (Public Sector Specialist), Nicholas Paul Manning (Adviser), Maria-Teresa Benito-
Spinetto (Research Analyst), Alain W. D'Hoore (Lead Economist), Patrick Kabuya (Senior Financial Management
Specialist), Fadila Caillaud (Senior Education Economist), Najibullah Motahedy (Team Assistant), Aissatou Diallo
(Senior Finance Officer), Julie Dana (Lead Financial Officer) and Shahrzad Mobasher Fard (Research Analyst).
1v


﻿LOAN PROGRAM SUMMARY
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE
DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
Borrower                 Republic of Mauritius
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Financing Data           IBRD Loan: Development Policy Loan (DPL). The proposed loan
amount is US$20 million.
Operation Type           Programmatic DPL (two operations). The proposed operation is the
second and final of the series.
Main Policy Areas        Social protection, education, trade competitiveness, civil service
reform, public enterprise reform
Key Outcome Indicators   *  Number of people with less than a secondary school certificate
in the Placement for Training program under the National
Empowerment Foundation, reflecting an increased poverty
focus.
*  Number of households in the Social Register of Mauritius
(SRM), which will serve as the basis for an integrated database
for poverty-targeted programs.
*  Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-
vocational education cycle, reflecting increased access to quality
secondary education.
*  Number of regulations on which a decision is taken after review,
reflecting a reduction in unnecessary business regulations.
*  Number      of     ministries  involved     in    issuing
certificates/permits/clearances connected to the national single
window, thus indicating greater administrative harmonization
and a reduced administrative burden for businesses.
*  Time needed to settle the Customs administrative penalty
amount, reflecting increased transparency and efficiency in the
application of Customs appeals.
*  Gradual reduction in the time needed to process an amendment
of schemes of service and in the number of schemes of service,
reflecting increased flexibility in the civil service.
*  Number of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) included in the
annual performance report prepared by the Office of Public
Sector Governance (OPSG) and published on the OPSG website,
indicating better monitoring of SOE performance and reform.
Program Development      The development objective of the DPL programmatic series is to
Objective(s) and         support improvements in the performance of the public sector in
V


﻿Contribution to Country   Mauritius by assisting the government to implement the following
Partnership Strategy     three reform  pillars: (i) strengthening services to support and
(CPS)                     empower the most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and
processes; and (iii) improving human resource management in the
civil service and the monitoring of SOE performance.
Risks                     The implementation of the proposed reform   program  entails a
number of risks:
(a) The challenge of maintaining macroeconomic stability in the face
of uncertain global developments. The economy has proven its
resilience in 2012, but a firm commitment will be needed to rein in
public expenditure and accelerate economic reforms if the global
economic slowdown lingers. The government has the means and
tools to cope with external and domestic economic challenges.
(b) Political risks that may affect the pace of the reform program at a
time when the need for reform is high, given growth prospects and
global economic uncertainties. Many of these new public sector
reforms will have redistributive effects, and the government may
find it difficult to reach a minimum level of consensus on them due
to its social impact. This DPL aims to mitigate this risk by
supporting reforms where consensus exists while putting in place the
building blocks necessary to expedite the broader reform program in
the medium term.
(c) Limited institutional capacity within the sector ministries to lead
and implement the reforms. The DPL series has been instrumental in
building bridges between the different ministries involved in the
reform program, thereby enhancing coordination. The Bank's
analytical work program also supports these reform areas while
increasing the institutional capacity of sector ministries. In addition,
this analytical work program has been coordinated with other
development partners to leverage limited resources and to focus on
the most relevant areas for maximizing the impact of reforms.
Finally, the Bank and the government signed a services agreement
for Reimbursable Technical Assistance (RTA) to provide additional
institutional capacity to those sector ministries that need it.
Operation ID              P128140
vi


﻿REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE
DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
PROGRAM DATA SHEET
Date: February 25, 2013                Lending Instrument: Development Policy
Country: Republic of Mauritius         Lending
Operation: Second Public Sector        Board Approval Date: March 26, 2013
Performance Development Policy Loan    Effectiveness Date: June 26, 2013
Operation ID: P128140                  Closing Date: June 30, 2014
Team Leader: Rafael Mufioz Moreno/Will  Sectors: Central government administration
Wiseman                                (40%); Other social services (30%); General
Sector Manager: John Panzer            public administration sector (30%).
Sector Director: Marcelo Giugale       Themes: Social safety nets (25%), Administrative
Country Director: Haleh Z. Bridi       and civil service reform (25%), Export
development and competitiveness (25%), State-
owned enterprise restructuring and privatization
(25%).
Environmental screening category:
Special Development Policy Lending:           O  Yes     [X] No
Crisis or Post-conflict Situation (exception to  [Yes    [X] No
0P8.60):
Programmatic:                                  [X] Yes   [No
Deferred Drawdown Option:                        ]Yes    [X] No
Subnational Lending:
Operation Financing Data
[X] IBRD Loan   [rIDA Credit  [] Grant         [Other:
Total Bank financing (US$m): 20.00
Proposed terms: IBRD Fixed Spread Loan payable in 18 years, (including 5 years grace period)
Tranche Release Information
Single tranche to be released upon effectiveness.
Does the operation depart from the CAS in content or other significant  [ ]Yes [X] No
respects?
Does the operation require any exceptions from Bank policies?         [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?       Y                    ]Yes   ] N
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?           [ ]Yes [X] No
Program Development Objective (PDO) of the DPL programmatic series is to support
improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the government
to implement reforms within the following three pillars: (i) strengthening programs that support
and empower the most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and processes; and (iii)
improving human resource management in the civil service and the monitoring of SOE
performance.
vii


﻿
﻿PROGRAM DOCUMENT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE
DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Mauritius continues to diversify the economy to enable the
country to achieve a higher income status in the medium term. Since independence in
1968, economic growth in Mauritius has been built on a long tradition of economic and
institutional reforms. Mauritius has been transformed from a predominantly agricultural
economy based on sugar production to a diversified economy structured around textile
exports and tourism and, lately, around financial services. In the mid-2000s, a bold reform
program supported by the Bank addressed the erosion of Mauritius' preferential trade status
and rising commodity prices by strengthening fiscal consolidation, enhancing trade
competitiveness, and improving the investment climate. Nevertheless, critical bottlenecks to
Mauritius' economic development remain, highlighting the need to reinvigorate public sector
performance, to improve the quality of service delivery, and to support overall economic
competitiveness. Progress in these areas will be a key determinant of whether Mauritius will
achieve its aspirations to become a high-income country over the next two decades.
2.    As anticipated at the time of Development Policy Loan 1 (DPL1) approval, the
pace of reform in Mauritius continues to be slow due to the technical and political
complexity of the necessary public sector reforms. The design and implementation of the
new reforms in the public sector is complex. They cut across many areas and require close
collaboration between many stakeholders. As a result, not only are technical solutions
complex but the institutional process itself is complicated. This requires sector ministries to
take a firm lead, although many lack the capacity to do so. The new government program
adopted in April 2012 seeks to prioritize those reforms that have the potential to yield broadly
shared economic growth. However, hampered by these technical and institutional constraints,
implementation is slow.
3.    With economic growth slowing and global uncertainty mounting, the need for
reform has become even more urgent. Mauritius' exposure to the global economy -
especially to the European economies - is taking a toll on domestic growth, which is now
projected to slow to around 3.3 percent in 2012. This is below the 3.7 percent projection made
when the first operation under this DPL series was approved (in March 2012) and below the
government's budget projections of close to 4 percent GDP growth in 2012. While the
economy proved to be highly resilient in 2008 and the government has the means to cope with
these external shocks, the sustainability of economic growth will be highly dependent on the
government's ability to implement reforms to increase the efficiency of the economy. The
fiscal position remains stretched, and any counter-cyclical fiscal policy will be difficult to
sustain for an extended period of time, which highlights the need to increase public sector
efficiency. To accelerate GDP growth while correcting external imbalances, Mauritius will
need to undertake structural reforms to promote national savings and increase
1


﻿competitiveness. These reforms will need to aim at to increase skills, improve infrastructure,
and make the public sector more efficient.
4.    This DPL series supports the strengthening of the institutional, policy, and
management tools required to address some of the challenges posed by these reforms. In
this context, the DPL series focuses on achieving feasible reforms in the near term while
laying the necessary building blocks to accelerate reforms in the medium term. It does so by:
(i) supporting the creation of systems (the Social Register of Mauritius, the Human Resource
Management Information System or HRMIS, the trade portal, and the single window for
trade) that will enable the government to define appropriate reform options and (ii)
strengthening the institutions that coordinate the reform initiatives (the Office of Public Sector
Governance, the secretariat for streamlining business regulations, and the National
Empowerment Foundation). The DPL series focuses on three reform pillars: (i) strengthening
services to support and empower the most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and
processes; and (iii) improving human resource management in the civil service and the
monitoring of SOE performance. DPL 2 will now help to consolidate these reforms while
supporting the achievement of immediate results where feasible. Overall, the use of limited
IBRD resources in this operation will give the government some leeway in lending should
economic conditions deteriorate in the medium term.
5.    Program implementation since DPL1 has been generally satisfactory, although
technical and institutional constraints limited the progress made in some areas. While
the social acceptance for bolder reforms is limited, the government remains committed to the
reform program supported by this DPL, and progress has been made in all of the key areas.
For instance, the Social Register of Mauritius (SRM) is already operational and registers the
target population for new social protection programs. The curricula for the first and second
years of pre-vocational education are being rolled out, and the Public Management
Information System is operational and includes a growing number of SOEs. However, the
pace of implementation varies, reflecting both technical complexities (such as the need to
develop various IT systems) and the difficulties associated with the need to coordinate the
different institutions involved in the reform process. In some instances, these issues have held
up the achievement of certain goals such as the creation of the trade portal and the start of the
pilot HRMIS. In this sense, the DPL is proving to be a useful tool as it is providing technical
expertise and global best practices in the design of many of the required systems.
Furthermore, it has in some cases filled a gap by acting as a catalyst for institutional
coordination among the many stakeholders.
6.    The proposed DPL is being prepared in coordination with the Bank's Private
Sector Competitiveness (PSC) DPL, which will be presented to the Board with this
operation. Both DPL series continue the close engagement that the World Bank has had with
Mauritius over recent years and will strategically maintain the dialogue on areas essential for
the long-term development of Mauritius. The two DPL series are designed to be mutually
reinforcing and to address complementary aspects of the government's reform program while
ensuring that the Bank's support remains sufficiently flexible. The PSC DPL series focuses
primarily on strengthening the policy and institutional environment for private sector
competitiveness, while this proposed DPL focuses primarily on the performance of the public
sector. For instance, the reforms included in the PSP DPL in social protection will further
support reforms supported by the PSC DPL that are related to small and medium-sized
2


﻿enterprises (SMEs) and entrepreneurship schemes by providing more effective resources for
the affected work force. If the government is going to successfully weather the challenges
ahead and prepare itself for the next phase of rapid and inclusive economic growth, the
reforms supported by these two operations will be instrumental to that success.
II.    COUNTRY CONTEXT
Figure 1: Value Added as a share of GDP (in percentage)
7.     Mauritius has had    80
an impressive development         Source. Statistics Mauritius  1990 m 2012
record. Between 1985 and    60
2007,     the    Mauritian
economy   expanded   at an  40
average annual growth rate
of 5 percent on the strength  20
of the exports of garments,
agricultural   commodities   0
(principally sugar), seafood, I    Primary Sector    Secondary Sector   Tertiary Sector
and tourism services. Years of rapid growth have transformed the economy. Agriculture now
accounts for less than 4 percent of GDP, manufacturing for around 17 percent of GDP, and
the share of services is increasing (Figure 1). The manufacturing sector remains a strong
contributor to employment in Mauritius.
8.    In recent years, however, GDP growth, though positive, has remained below the
level necessary to achieve the country's aspiration to become a high-income country by
the next decade. There is evidence that domestic factors such as skills mismatches and
infrastructure bottlenecks are economic development in Mauritius. There is still a crucial need
to make the delivery of public sector services more effective and efficient. Competitiveness
has also weakened as a result of structural rigidities in the economy.
9.     In the near term, managing the ongoing uncertainties emanating from the global
environment remains a challenge. The current account deficit projected for 2013 (9.6
percent of GDP) means that there is a need for policies to increase ailing investment, raise
competitiveness, boost domestic savings, and limit the scope for more expansionary
macroeconomic policies. Policymakers are well aware of this. Monetary policy will be more
focused on containing inflationary pressures (inflation is projected to be 5.7 percent in 2013
compared with 3.9 percent in 2012). The government will also continue to build up
international reserves, in part to moderate deviations of the exchange rate from fundamentals.
In fiscal policy, the government will continue its efforts to bring down the discounted public
sector debt-to-GDP ratio to 50 percent by 2018 from 53.1 percent in 2012,1 although there is
some fiscal space and some contingency in the 2013 budget for a modest expansion should
economic growth slows down because of deeper external shocks. I order to address both the
ongoing and longer-term challenges facing the economy, the government should consider
I The Public Debt Management Act 2008, as amended provides that for the purpose of Public Sector Debt
ceiling, public enterprise debt be discounted on the basis of prescribed criteria (i.e. managerial independence,
solid governance structure, market access, and limited risk). For 2012, public sector debt for the purpose of debt
ceiling was 53.1 percent of GDP compared to total public sector debt of 56.5 percent of GDP.
3


﻿accelerating the pace of reforms to build human and physical capital and increase the
country's competitiveness over the longer term.
10.    The wage-setting framework and a rise in skills mismatches will continue to put
upward pressure on wages and weaken competitiveness. Over the last decade,
manufacturing firms in Mauritius have experienced a loss in international competitiveness.
Wages have more than doubled while labor productivity has increased by only 60 percent
over the same period. Moreover, growth and competitiveness are being hampered by skills
mismatches as Mauritius transitions towards a more knowledge-based economy. There is an
oversupply of workers for unskilled or low-skilled jobs and an undersupply of workers for
high-skilled jobs (most notably, in banking, health care, and tourism).2 In addition, the global
economic slowdown is further affecting export-oriented enterprises, with some retrenchment
in the textile sector being partially compensated for by job creation in the food and chemical
export sectors. Not surprisingly, employment creation has fallen short of the 4.1 percent
increase in the labor force experienced since 2008 that has been fueled by a sustained increase
in female participation, and the unemployment rate has risen from 7.2 percent in 2008 to 8
percent in 2012.
A. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK IN MAURITIUS
11.    Expansionary macroeconomic policies have enabled the economic recovery in
Mauritius that followed the 2008/2009 global financial crisis. Real GDP growth slowed
from 5.5 percent in 2008 to 3.1 percent in 2009 amid the financial crisis, before rising to
around 4.2 percent in 2010. GDP growth subsequently slowed to 3.8 percent in 2011 and 3.3
percent in 2012 in the wake of renewed turbulence in the global economy. The government's
consolidation efforts initiated prior to 2008 had created the fiscal space needed to adopt an
expansionary macroeconomic policy stance. Between 2009 and 2011, fiscal stimulus
measures, which mostly consisted of targeted programs to assist firms and workers,
cumulatively accounted for about 7.5 percent of GDP. On the aggregate demand side,
government consumption and investment contributed the most to growth in 2009, followed by
a recovery in exports in 2010, and an increase in inventories in 2011. On the supply side, in
line with the evolving structure of the economy over the last decade, overall growth was led
by the service sector, particularly real estate services, hotels and restaurants, and financial
intermediation. These together now account for around 23 percent of GDP, up from 18
percent in 1990. Hotels and restaurants, the industries that suffered the most in 2009,
rebounded in 2010.
12.    Despite the challenges to growth on the external front and the lower-than-
expected expansionary fiscal policy, the economy is still projected to have grown by
around 3.3 percent in 2012 according to latest estimates from Statistics Mauritius. This
is below the 3.7 percent that was projected when the first operation in this DPL series was
approved (in March 2012) and below the government's 2012 budget projections of
4.1 percent but significant in the context of the 2012 global economic slowdown, particularly
of the European market to which Mauritius is very exposed to (Box 1).
2 A recent study conducted by the Human Resources Development Council (HRDC) suggests that 73 percent of
firms operating within the tourism industry believe that there is a shortage of skilled labor. Some 58 percent of
respondents indicated that educational institutions should establish a stronger relationship with employers so that
their curricula meet the skills requirements of the labor force.
4


﻿Box 1: The Impact of the European Economic Slowdown on the Mauritian Economy
The main areas where economic shocks from the global economy have manifested in
Mauritius are tourism, exports and commodity imports. The European economic downturn
is adversely affecting Mauritius as the country remains highly dependent upon European
markets. Exports and tourism from major European markets has stagnated during 2012 in
terms of arrivals (see table below). This is being compensated for by increasing tourist
arrivals and exports from Africa and Asia, but overall tourist arrivals remained lackluster
during 2012. Imports, in turn, rose by around 19 percent in 2012 compared to 2011, led by
rising food (20 percent increase) and fuel (35 percent increase) imports.
Table 1: Exports and Tourist Arrivals, 2011 and 2012
2011       2012     % Change
Exports of Goods   62,358     67,991       9.0
To Europe       38,328     39,308       2.6
To Africa       3,488      5,137       47.3
To Asia        13,140     15,980      21.6
Tourist Arrivals  964,642     965,441      0.1
From Europe      609,648    560,699      -8.0
From Africa      231,174    265,215     14.7
From Asia       91,057     104,336      14.6
Source: Statistics Mauritius
13.    The fiscal position is improving, and the government achieved greater debt
consolidation in 2012 than had originally been expected. The budget deficit for 2012 is
now likely to be lower than projected (2.3 percent of GDP actual versus 3.7 percent of GDP
projected).3 There has been a stronger than anticipated decline in recurrent expenditures as
well as in public investment - each amounting to 1.1 percent of GDP - that were only
partially offset by a 0.8 percent decline in revenues induced by the economic slowdown. As a
result, total public sector debt was brought down to 56.5 percent of GDP in 2012 compared to
57.4 percent in 2011 (Table 2).
14.    The government adopted a slightly more accommodating monetary policy stance
in 2012 than in 2011, but it remains cautious nonetheless. The Bank of Mauritius reversed
its tightening monetary policy in December 2011 as a result of the domestic economic
slowdown and global uncertainties. The repo rate was further reduced to 4.9 percent in March
2012 and has been kept unchanged ever since. This more accommodative monetary policy
was facilitated by a decline in inflation from 6.5 percent in 2011 to 3.9 percent in 2012, in part
related to the slowdown in food prices as well as the appreciation of the rupee against, most
notably, the Euro. In November 2012, the Bank of Mauritius' Monetary Policy Committee
(MPC) expressed its concerns over the projected increase of the inflation rate to 6 percent in
Both the total spending and the fiscal deficit figures have been corrected taking into account the spending from
extra-budgetary funds. For 2012, we estimate a 0.4 percent of GDP contribution from extra-budgetary funds to
the overall fiscal deficit.
5


﻿2013 due to increasing food and oil prices, the recent rupee depreciation, and the impact of
the public sector salary increase due to be awarded in 2013 as part of the Pay Research
Bureau (PRB) report. This adds to the MPC's previous worries about the effects of prevailing
negative real interest rates on savings deposits and on corporate indebtedness. As such, the
Bank of Mauritius stands ready to revisit its policy in order to avoid any second-round effects
on prices and wages.
15.   The Bank of Mauritius has stepped up its sterilized interventions in the foreign
exchange market to respond to the rupee appreciation and to build additional buffers
against a potential economic slowdown. The rupee's appreciation - 5.5 percent nominal
appreciation vis-d-vis the Euro between June 2011 and June 2012 - largely stemmed from
relatively buoyant capital inflows, including FDI, growing government external borrowing
(albeit on a sustainable trajectory), and large net capital inflows to the banking sector. In
response, the Bank of Mauritius is implementing a medium-term program to increase foreign
exchange reserves to six months of imports of goods and services (from 4.3 months as at the
end of December 2011), with parallel sterilization of the additional money supply. By
December 2012, foreign reserves increased by around US$268 million to reach US$2.9
billion or 4.5 months of imports of goods and services. As a result of this intervention, the
rupee has depreciated by 3.4 percent vis-d-vis the Euro between June 2012 and December
2012.
B. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY
16.   Real gross domestic product (GDP) is projected to rise by 3.7 percent in 2013, but
this forecast remains subject to a downward revision should various risks to global
economic growth materialize. This forecast is based on the assumptions that measures will
be implemented to stimulate private investment, implement public investment, expand market
share in emerging economies and support growth in emerging sectors while traditional sectors
experience some consolidation. This projection also remains subject to a downward revision
should external uncertainty linger and global economic growth continue to stagnate. Growth
in GDP is expected to trend towards 4.5 percent by 2015 in line with the global economic
recovery and a fiscal policy that is guided by the debt strategy requirement of reducing the
total public sector debt-to-GDP ratio to 50 percent by 2018.
17.   However, some downside risks to the economic outlook exist that could result in
economic growth deviating from these projections. Domestically, the main downside risks
to the economic outlook remain the slow pace of structural reforms to support growth, chief
among which is the need to increase the efficiency of the public sector. This is essential in
order to tackle critical bottlenecks in education and infrastructure. On the external front, the
key downside risks remain sluggish growth in external demand and the pressure that this may
put on the current account balance. Overall, these risks are manageable considering the
resilience that the Mauritian economy has shown in 2012 and given the available means and
tools to cope with external uncertainty.
6


﻿Table 2: Selected Economic Indicators and Projections, 2009-2015
2()9   2)101 2)11   2)12    2)13     2014    2015
Est.            Proi  ri  ri
National income, prices and employment
Real GDP Growth at market prices (%)     3.0    4.1    3.8    3.3     3.7      4.3     4.5
Growth in consumer prices (%)            2.5    2.9    6.5    3.9     5.7      4.6     4.7
Unemployment rate (%)                    7.3    7.8    7.9    8.0     8.2      8.0     7.7
Savings and investment
Gross national savings                   13.8  13.3   13.1   14.7     15.4    16.2     16.7
Gross domestic investment                26.4  23.6   25.7   24.7     25.1    25.3     25.5
(Government budget
Revenues and grants                      22.8  21.9   21.4    21.4    21.9    21.3     20.3
Tax revenue                            19.1   18.5   18.3   18.8    18.7     18.4     18.4
Total expenditure                        26.3  24.9   23.5   23.7     24.5    23.2     21.7
Current expenditures                   23.6   22.2   20.8   20.9    21.4     20.7     19.4
Compensation of employees             6.0    5.9    5.6    5.4     6.0      6.0     5.8
Use of goods and services             2.8    3.1    2.6    2.6     2.9      2.9     2.7
Interest payments                     3.8    3.4    3.0    3.0     2.7      2.6     2.6
Transfers and subsidies               6.6    5.5    6.3    5.0     4.4      4.0     3.7
Net acquisition ofnon-financial assets  2.7   2.7    2.7     2.8     3.1     2.5      2.2
Fiscal balance (including extrabudgetary funds)  -2.0  -3.0  -2.1  -2.3  -2.5  -1.9    -1.4
Net acquisition of financial assets      0.3    0.0    0.9    0.4     1.8      2.5     3.2
Borrowing requirements                   2.2    2.9    2.9    2.5     4.1      4.2     4.3
External sector
Balance of goods and services           -10.5  -12.2  -13.2  -13.0   -12.5    -11.9   -11.5
Exports of goods and services          47.1   50.9  52.6    53.8    55.1    54.9     54.5
Imports of goods and services         -57.6  -63.1  -65.8  -66.8   -67.6    -66.8    -66.0
Current account balance                 -7.4   -10.3  -12.6  -10.0   -9.6     -9.1     -8.7
FDI                                      2.5    3.1    1.6    1.7     1.5      1.5     1.6
Overall External Balance                 4.3    2.1    1.6    1.8     1.2      1.3     1.1
Net international reserves (M1ns USD)   2,304  2,448  2,631  2,892   3,044    3,195   3,368
Months of imports of goods and services, f.o.b.  5.1  4.8  4.3  4.5   4.6      4.6     4.6
Memnorandlum irem s
Public sector debt                       59.6  57.4   57.4   56.5     55.8    55.0     54.3
Total external debt                      22.0  22.3   23.7   23.7     25.1    26.7     26.5
GDP at current market prices (Rs. Bins)  282.4  298.8  322.8  344.6  377.9    412.1   451.0
Sources: Mauritian authorities; IMF and World Bank staff estimates and projections
18.     The government envisages a prudent fiscal policy in 2013. The budget deficit for
2013 is projected to be 2.5 percent of GDP. Public spending is expected to edge up to 24.5
percent of GDP in 2013 (compared to 23.7 percent of GDP in 2012), with capital spending
projected at 3.1 percent of GDP, above 2012 outlays. Public revenues and grants are expected
to slightly increase to 21.9 percent of GDP and the Budget's fiscal deficit including spending
from extra-budgetary funds, is expected to widen to 2.5 percent of GDP, up from an
4 For 2013, this includes additional 0.7 percent of GDP contribution from extra-budgetary funds.
7


﻿anticipated 2.3 percent of GDP this year. The government is seeking to strike a balance
between budget consolidation and measures to support growth. Special programs are being
implemented to support vulnerable sectors (such as SMEs) and groups (such as unemployed
youths and children) while seeking to ensure fiscal consolidation. The government is trying to
achieve significant containment in transfers and subsidies (mostly transfers to parastatals and
the public sector), which reflects the government's efforts to increase public sector efficiency
in these areas. These transfers and subsidies have already been reduced from around 6.3
percent of GDP in 2011 to 5.0 percent of GDP in 2012 and a further decrease to 4.4 percent of
GDP is projected in 2013. The government contemplates in the event of lower than accounted
revenues the key expenditures will be protected using the remaining resources from the
National Resilience Fund (1.1 percent of GDP).
19.    Debt consolidation   will be achieved   despite the implementation     of the
recommendation of the 2012 Pay Research Bureau (PRB) report, which will raise the
central government's wage bill by 19 percent in 2013. In practical terms, this adjusts public
sector wages by the equivalent of the accumulated inflation over the last five years. As only
partial adjustments were made during that time, mostly for lower rank grades, the PRB
recommended broadening the top to bottom pay ratio, which was only 7:1. For the central
government,5 the 19 percent increase in the wage bill for 2013 represents a sizeable amount of
its budget (0.6 percent of GDP), particularly considering the uncertain external environment
and the impact that it may have on the negotiation of private sector salaries. These in the past
have followed increases in the public sector, which, if this happens again in this case, may put
inflationary pressures on the economy.
20.    The net financing requirements of the government are projected to increase from
2.5 percent of GDP in 2012 to 4.1 percent of GDP in 2013, around half of which will be
used to provide loans for infrastructure development. Significant efforts have been made
to lengthen the maturity of the domestic debt, with long-term debt (with a minimum maturity
of five years) having increased to 52 percent of total domestic debt in 2013, up from 49
percent in 2012 and 43 percent in 2011. This will help to alleviate some of the risk involved in
the significant amount of securities that were approaching maturity that had to be rolled over
at a potentially higher interest rate. In order to lengthen the maturity on its debt and reduce its
debt servicing costs, the government is also increasingly relying on external loans. These will
represent 13.3 percent of GDP in 2013, up from 11.9 percent of GDP in 2012 when external
loans already financed more than half of the budget deficit. External loans are mostly
provided by international financing institutions. With these loans, the government is seeking
to: (i) take advantage of low global and concessional interest rates and (ii) extend term
maturities to reduce the risk of roll-over needs. These loans will mostly support government
investments in transport, energy, and water.
21.    The current account deficit will be financed by financial flows and to a lesser
extend foreign direct investment (FDI). The current account deficit has widened from 7.4
percent of GDP in 2009 to 12.6 percent of GDP in 2011 mainly as a result of rising FDI-
funded imports. This trend was reversed in 2012 as a result of the growth in exports and
despite an increase in imports, the current account deficit is expected to narrow to 10 percent
The PRB projects the wage bill for the central government, parastatals, and local entities at 8.8 percent of GDP
in 2013, which represents an increase over the 8.2 percent of GDP recorded in 2008 at the time of the adoption
of the last pay review.
8


﻿of GDP. Moving forward, the current account deficit is projected to be further reduced to 9.6
percent of GDP in 2013 and 9.1 percent of GDP in 2014. Although the deficit is expected to
be financed by financial flows and FDI, further increases in the price of food and fuel, and a
more severe and protracted economic downturn in Europe than envisaged could lead to some
deterioration in the deficit and in the ease of access to FDI.
22.   The March 2012 Debt Sustainability Analysis (DSA) projects a sustainable public
sector debt level for Mauritius over the medium-term. There was an increase in public
sector debt from 52 percent of GDP in 2008 to 57.4 percent in 2011, resulting mainly from the
implementation of the stimulus packages but subsequent fiscal consolidation is projected to
bring down the total stock of public sector debt to 57 percent of GDP in 2013. The 2008
Public Debt Management Act (PDMA), amended in 2010 imposed a ceiling of 60 percent of
GDP on the total amount of outstanding public sector debt, with the aim of reducing it to 50
percent of GDP by the end of 2018. Given current trends and policy, the medium-term debt
trajectory is likely to comply with the Act. Under a baseline scenario with a slight
acceleration of economic growth from 3.3 percent in 2012 to 4.2 percent beyond 2013 and a
gradual reduction of the fiscal deficit to 2 percent of GDP by 2014, the debt-to-GDP ratio
would gradually reach the PDMA 50 percent debt-to-GDP target by 2018.
23.   Risks of deviations from   a sustainable trajectory remain under extreme
alternative scenarios. Under alternative scenarios such as a depreciation of the rupee by 30
percent caused by a severe contraction of world economy the debt-to-GDP ratio could exceed
65 percent in 2018, which would be above the PDMA ceiling. This would require the
government to adopt more ambitious medium-term fiscal consolidation measures, including
slowing down the implementation of the investment program and making efficiency gains in
public expenditure. In the same vein, total external debt (estimated at 23.7 percent of GDP in
2012) is projected to be sustainable, though it may rise over the next few years to finance the
public infrastructure program before stabilizing. External debt sustainability is resilient to a 30
percent real depreciation of the rupee, but external debt dynamics would become
unsustainable over a five-year period should the external current account deficit increase by
3 percentage points of GDP compared to the baseline scenario.
24.   The November 2012 Bank of Mauritius Annual Report presents a picture of a
sound banking sector. Bank profits are high and their capital position is strong, with
moderate exposure to market risk and changes in interest rates. Stress-tests by IMF staff have
confirmed resilience of the banking sector to a variety of shocks. Loans to non-residents
accounted for more than 50 percent of total bank loans and 29 percent of banks' total assets in
2011. These loans, predominantly financed by domestic residents and to a lesser extent
Europe, were heavily concentrated in Asia and particularly, in India, with Mauritius serving
as an intermediary of funds to this country. During the first nine months of 2012, roughly
73 percent of bank credit to residents was offered to the domestic corporate sector, with
construction receiving the largest share at 26 percent followed by tourism (18 percent), trade
(12 percent) and manufacturing (8 percent). The Bank of Mauritius is offering credit lines in
foreign exchange accounts to cushion potential currency mismatches. Also, household
indebtedness to banks rose from 12.8 percent of GDP to 17.2 percent between 2006 and 2011,
61 percent of which was for mortgages.
9


﻿25.   Overall, the macroeconomic framework is adequate for development policy
lending. While the global economic slowdown took a toll on the Mauritian economy in 2012
and global economic uncertainties may continue in 2013, the economy has already proved -
as in 2008 - to be highly resilient to external shocks, and the government has the means to
cope with these external shocks in the short and medium term.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES
A. GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
26.   In April 2012 the government presented its new program for 2012-15 called
Moving the Nation Forward (MNF). The MNF represents the third major policy platform
since the government came to power in 2005 and provides a broad vision for the development
of the country. A Commission has been established to translate the MNF vision into a set of
coherent programs with well-defined priorities, timelines, and performance indicators. The
Commission will be in charge of preparing a 10-year Economic and Social Transformation
Plan (ESTP) that will formulate strategies to accelerate the development of Mauritius within a
decade. The ESTP is to underpin the three-year roll-ing program-based budgeting (PBB).
27.   The main objective of the MNF is to help Mauritius to become a high-income
country over the next 10 years, thus increasing per capita income from US$8,000 to
more than US$14,000. The MNF seeks to "...raise the skills and capacities of our people,
harness the power of technology, modernize and streamline... institutions, accelerate
innovation in existing industries, and encourage diversification and growth in new and more
sophisticated sectors."6 The MNF contains six pillars covering economic, political, social,
and environmental issues. The strategies in the MNF will be translated into specific policy
measures through the budget process. The first budget since the launch of the MNF was
presented to Parliament in November 2012 and elaborated on many of the areas discussed in
the MNF.
Pillar 1: Prosperity for All
28.   The government remains committed to the path that has produced the economic
growth of the last seven years, particularly to promoting an open and market-friendly
environment, keeping taxes low, and streamlining regulations. The government's efforts
towards the latter goal have been recognized this year in the World Bank's Doing Business
Index, where Mauritius has advanced five positions up to 19th. However, in view of the
rapidly changing world economy, including the growing importance of emerging markets and
the new challenges faced by the domestic economy, the government aims to reduce the
country's dependence on Europe. It will do this by increasing its exposure to middle income
and higher growth economies while at the same time moving up the value chain and
encouraging growth, investment, and jobs in new sectors.
29.   New sectors such as the "ocean economy" are being harnessed to accelerate
growth over the medium term. The government intends to prepare a plan for the
6 Moving the Nation Forward, Introduction, para 10.
10


﻿development of an ocean economy, taking advantage of its very large Exclusive Economic
Zone in the ocean (2.3 million square kilometers or about 1,000 times the country's land).
This will include fundamental and applied research on the ocean and the development of a
regional fisheries management plan and related legislation, which will ensure that the fishing
industry remains economically and environmentally sustainable.
30.    Reform in traditional sectors such as sugar and tourism will be accelerated. The
sugarcane sector continues to face the consequences of the dismantling of the Sugar Protocol
that is part of the continuing reform of the EU Common Agricultural Policy, as well as the
abandonment of lands by small planters. Hence, the government intends to step up the reform
of the cane industry as well as to modernize and diversify the agro-food production sector to
make it competitive and sustainable. In tourism, the government aims to attract visitors from
a broader spectrum of countries, to increase spending per tourist, and to develop new tourism
products. The Bank is supporting by the latter goal by analyzing how to strengthen regional
cooperation in the tourism sector.
31.    In the financial sector, the government intends to support the diversification of
the global business sector. In particular, it will upgrade the legal and regulatory framework
to encourage the sector to provide more value-added products to enhance the attractiveness of
Mauritius as an international financial center. In particular, the sector will be encouraged to
provide fully integrated services and to tap into more opportunities within Africa. In the
domestic financial services sector, the government is encouraging providers to offer
innovative financial products and widen access to financial services to all segments of the
population.
32.    Efforts to improve the investment climate and to provide clear and transparent
guidelines for investors and traders will continue. The government will seek to attract FDI
to high value-added sectors as well as to infrastructure. In particular, the government intends
to attract enough FDI to finance 10 percent of the Public Sector Investment Plan (PSIP) by
2015. The government will continue its financing, promotion, and employment support to
SMEs, including reinforcing support to women entrepreneurs and making access to finance
easier for SMEs. The government is also continuing to modernize its trade systems. Supported
by the DPL, it will launch a new online "single window," which will provide a one-stop shop
for processing all imports, thus greatly facilitating trade. Also, the 2013 budget revised the
customs appeals mechanism by setting penalties following a transparent rule, another measure
supported by this DPL.
33.    Integration and connectivity with other African countries remains a top priority.
To broaden Mauritius' economic space, the government intends to promote opportunities for
increasing cross-border investment and trade in the region. The 2013 budget commits
Mauritius to participating, together with four other nations, in an accelerated regional
7 Key priority measures to be implemented in partnership with all stakeholders include: (i) redefining land and
agricultural policies; (ii) creating new financial schemes; (iii) offering risk management schemes; (iv)
constructing modern slaughterhouses that meet export norms; (v) increasing access to markets; (vi) building
institutional and human capacity, including empowering women; and (vii) strengthening the governance of
institutions.
11


﻿integration initiative supported by the World Bank.8 The government also plans to remove
barriers to trade by exempting individuals from the visa requirement or, where necessary, by
allowing them to receive a visa upon their arrival in the country. It also envisages signing
double taxation agreements with five African countries, granting Freeport status to companies
wishing to carry out specific manufacturing activities entirely for export to Africa, and
expanding Freeport zones.
34.    The government intends to implement a set of measures to address skills
mismatches, which mean that employers are unable to find qualified personnel and
unemployed workers experience difficulties in finding jobs. A new National Training
Strategy will be developed to ensure that the education and training system keeps pace with
the evolution of the labor market so it is able to produce workers capable of meeting the skills
needs of the country until 2025. Particular efforts will be made to increase young people's
employability and skills. To this end, the government will launch a National Youth
Employment Program for those aged between 16 and 30 years old to provide them with
apprenticeships, training, and placements in various sectors of the economy.
35.    The government will continue to consolidate public finances to reduce public
debt to below 50 percent by 2016, two years earlier than initially envisaged. It will do so
by ensuring that domestic revenues cover recurrent expenditures and that net new government
borrowing is used to finance investment. While continuing its low tax policy, the government
will strengthen tax collection and broaden the tax base, thus raising more revenue. The
government will also seek to reduce the costs and improve the quality of the services provided
by parastatal agencies and state-owned enterprises. As a mechanism for supporting this, the
government has strengthened the role of the Office of Public Sector Governance (OPSG) to
monitor the performance of public enterprises and to supervise the implementation of the
public enterprise improvement program agreed by the Cabinet. This revision of the mandate
of the OPSG was supported by the first DPL in this series.
Pillar 2: Enhanced Connectivity
36.    The government will continue to invest in the expansion and modernization of
public infrastructure with the aim of becoming a regional transport hub. This will be
achieved by selecting a strategic partner for the Cargo Handling Corporation to invest in port
infrastructure to increase the volume of container traffic. The government also plans to
restructure Air Mauritius to give it greater global connectivity and make it more efficient.
Also, several major projects to ease road traffic are currently being implemented as a
continuation of the ongoing Road Decongestion Program. Budgetary resources for the
construction and maintenance of roads and bridges are expected to nearly triple over the next
two years. The government will also accelerate the implementation of a major nationwide
8 In an effort to promote greater trade and investment, the Governments of Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, the
Seychelles, and Zambia have launched an Accelerated Program for Economic Integration aiming at: (i)
accelerating the reduction of trade barriers and burdensome regulations; and (ii) accelerating the pace of
economic integration by creating trade and promoting and investment at the regional level to increase
competitiveness, enhance growth, and create jobs. This initiative, which is being supported by the World Bank,
follows the spirit of rapid integration based on variable speed and variable geometry adopted by the council of
Ministers of Finance and Central Bank Governors of COMESA (July 2011) and SADC (November 2011) and is
open for other countries to join.
12


﻿mass transit system. In general, investments in land transport will be made through public-
private partnerships (PPP) to take advantage of the substantial financing available from the
private sector as well as the sector's experience in implementing successful infrastructure
projects. The government is aware that this program is ambitious given current investment
levels as well as the country's limited capacity and lack of expertise, as demonstrated by the
slow execution rate of the public investment program. To address this, a Project Management
and Delivery Unit set up under the Prime Minister's Office will be in charge of the timely
implementation of all infrastructure projects.
37.   The government will also accelerate the development of the Information and
Communications Technology/Business Process Outsourcing (ICT/BPO) sector and reap
the benefits that it offers in terms of investment, FDI, and youth employment. The 2013
budget contains a lot of innovative ICT measures, including a commitment to subsidize
broadband access charges to bring down the price from Rs 349 to Rs 200 per month (or
US$6.35) and a commitment to invest Rs 600 million (US$19 million) in a submarine cable to
Rodrigues (with enhanced satellite connectivity in the interim). It will also support setting up
an ICT academy to train and increase value added per worker in the sector. Once the new
submarine fiber-optic cable is operational, the government plans to connect every household
to at least 1 megabyte per second by 2015. It is also implementing the WiFi Mauritius
Program to provide free Internet access points across Mauritius and Rodrigues with a view to
achieving full universal Internet access. In addition, the Data Protection Act will be amended
to incorporate new international data protection principles to strengthen safeguards related to
the processing of personal data and to attract more investment in the ICT sector by ensuring a
free and secure flow of data.
Pillar 3: Empowering People
38.   The government is committed to continuing its efforts to transform the education
system by emphasizing equitable access, enhanced quality, and improved learning. It
will enhance the primary school curriculum to include new topics such as civic education,
health literacy, information technology, and sustainable living and will review the function of
the Certificate of Primary Education (CPE) exam, including the current system of certification
and the allocation of places in secondary education. The government will implement a new
dedicated program for Zones d'Education Prioritaires (ZEP) schools to replicate good
practices and sustain the mechanisms that exist to support all children with learning
difficulties. Supported by this DPL, the government is also launching a comprehensive reform
of the pre-vocational stream of secondary education to increase its effectiveness in serving the
needs of students and in helping them to transition to further technical training and into the
world of work. The government will introduce a quality assurance and inspection framework
with a view to improving the quality of teaching and of student performance in both state and
private secondary schools. The government will also introduce a tertiary education bill that
will provide a framework for the regulation of tertiary education, including enhanced tools to
ensure quality assurance.
39.   In the area of early childhood development, the government is emphasizing
preventive health care and an additional focus on pre-primary education. A Student
Health and Wellness Program will be introduced to promote health literacy. In this context,
the "Child Health Passport" will be updated with regular medical checkups for children
13


﻿attending public primary schools. The government will make pre-primary school compulsory
for children aged 3 to 5 years old as of January 2013 and, over the next three years, will
facilitate the creation of nursery schools in all districts. It will also introduce a support scheme
for private pre-primary schools to improve the quality of care and education. In the special
education needs sector, the government will introduce an early identification and assessment
program to profile the needs of differently abled learners to enable timely intervention.
40.    To eradicate extreme poverty in the medium      term, the government will
strengthen the programs of the National Empowerment Foundation (NEF) and continue
the roll-out of the Social Register of Mauritius. The government continues to dedicate
significant resources to its poverty alleviation programs, led primarily by the NEF, and it is
seeking to achieve greater efficiency and impact by harmonizing these programs while
ensuring strong social worker case management at the household level. All poverty-targeted
programs going forward will use the consolidated Social Register of Mauritius, which will
strengthen monitoring and synergies between programs. In the recent budget, new programs
that will increase the access of vulnerable groups to housing were announced as was a new
program to provide one-off cash transfers to primary school students from underprivileged
backgrounds with good attendance and who have passed their exams. The implementation of
the Social Register of Mauritius is being supported by this DPL.
Pillars 4 and 5: Cohesive Society and Strong Nation
41.    In the health sector, the government is committed to continuing to provide
universal, accessible, and efficient health services that focus on the customer. The
primary focus will be on overall wellness, with increased attention given to prevention rather
than just curative health care. To that end, the government plans to invest in health
infrastructure and in human resources to ensure the provision of quality services and to
address Mauritius' major challenges. These include the prevention and control of non-
communicable diseases and the need to address the socioeconomic impact of the demographic
transition. An aggressive community-based program will be implemented throughout
Mauritius with the aim of preventing non-communicable diseases.9
42.    The government will continue to modernize the civil service and provide it with
the resources required to deliver high-quality services. To that end, it will set up a Civil
Service College, which will include a School of Diplomacy and International Relations. The
government is also launching an integrated Human Resource Management Information
System (HRMIS) to facilitate more effective workforce and performance management and
thereby make the civil service more efficient and transparent. The roll-out of the HRMIS is
being supported by this DPL.
43.    The government will continue to support the Independent Commission Against
Corruption (ICAC) and is committed to fighting corruption by implementing
international and regional anti-corruption instruments. These include the United Nations
Convention Against Corruption, the Southern African Development Community (SADC)
9 Among specific health programs, the government strategy notes the current preparation of an action plan to
mitigate cancer risks, a community-based program to prevent non-communicable diseases, a National Drug
Control Master Plan to reduce substance abuse, a National Food Safety Action Plan, and measures to further
reduce HIV infections.
14


﻿Protocol against Corruption, and the African Union Convention on Preventing and Combating
Corruption. As a second phase of the implementation of the Public Sector Anti-Corruption
Framework, public bodies will be called upon to adopt corruption risk management
techniques.10 The government will also reinforce the existing legal framework taking into
consideration the observations of the Parliamentary Committee on the ICAC.
44.    The governance and operations of local government authorities will be reviewed
to increase efficiency in service delivery. To that effect, the government, in accordance with
the new Local Government Act, intends to develop a new grant-in-aid formula to distribute
central government grants among local authorities fairly and equitably. A land use planning
bill will promote investment opportunities and orderly development. In the context of the
decentralized political system, the government will work closely with the Regional Assembly
to develop Rodrigues' infrastructure, diversify its economy, address water shortages, and
improve health services.
Pillars 6: Sustainability
45.    The government is currently implementing the Maurice Ile Durable (MID)
project, which provides a broad framework for achieving a modern and sustainable
Mauritius. The MID is to be translated into concrete actions through the MID National
Policy, a 10-year strategic framework, and a three-year action plan to be completed during
this year.
46.    Securing water resources remains a major challenge in Mauritius, given
increased demand and the impact of climate change. The government aims to manage
water in a holistic manner, to improve the total water management system in order to provide
drinkable water to all users at all times, and to reduce water losses to a minimum. To promote
the optimal use of resources, the government has decided to undertake a major institutional
reform of the water sector that will involve integrating the four major institutions involved in
water management into one single institution. The government is also making significant
investments to improve water supply infrastructure, including building several dams and
reservoirs.
47.    In the energy sector, the government will continue to implement the Power Sector
Expansion Plan, which aims to provide a reliable supply of electricity using low-cost
clean technologies. In addition, measures will be implemented to promote energy savings and
to increase efficiency." As renewable energy will be insufficient to meet increased demand,
10 To complement the Anti-Corruption Framework, public officers will be trained to act as "Integrity Officers" to
contribute to the establishment of ethical culture, to prevent and address corruption, and to be a public symbol of
the organization's commitment to integrity. The ICAC has also carried out 33 corruption prevention reviews and
other preventive measures, such as the design of codes of conduct and best practice guides for procurement. The
ICAC is working to extend and deepen its impact, efficiency, and performance management. The Bank is
discussing with ICAC options to support in the preparation of a strategy and action plan on anti-corruption.
" Current installed renewable capacity in Mauritius, which is mainly hydro and bagasse, accounts for less than
20 percent of total power generation. Most hydro and bagasse resources in Mauritius have already been used,
leaving little scope for further development, but there is potential for other alternative energy sources (biofuels,
solar, wind, and micro hydro). The Long-term Energy Strategy 2009-2025, prepared by the Ministry of Energy
and Public Utilities, favors renewable energy generation in the short to medium term, and the Maurice Ile
Durable (MID) Fund has already promoted renewable energy. In 2009, grants and soft loans for purchasing solar
15


﻿the government is studying alternatives such as using liquefied natural gas and building a 100
MW coal power plant by 2015. The government has also developed a framework for the local
production and use of ethanol, which will bring environmental benefits, increase the
production of renewable energy, and reduce the country' dependence on imported fossil fuels.
48.    The National Development Strategy (NDS) sets out the government's land use
strategy for the next 20 years to ensure the sustainable management of land to better
support the economy and the environment. A Land Use Planning Bill will be introduced in
Parliament that will set out strategic and detailed planning processes to promote investment
opportunities and orderly development. Also, a Land Administration, Valuation, and
Information Management System Project is being implemented to modernize land
management. The government also intends to intensify the protection of biodiversity by
extending surveillance of protected areas by the National Parks and Conservation Services by
more than 80 percent.
B. PUBLIC BUDGET CONSULTATIVE PROCESS AND TRANSPARENCY
49.    There are various ways in which stakeholders and civil society are consulted
during the preparation of the annual public budget, which is the main instrument for
introducing economic reforms in Mauritius. Each year, the Joint Economic Council (JEC), the
largest private sector coordinating body in Mauritius, discusses private sector business
priorities with the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED) as part of the
preparation of the public budget. MoFED also discusses sector issues and proposals with
industry associations and labor unions. More recently, MoFED has solicited proposals from
civil society and has posted some documents on the web to solicit feedback during the
preparation of the budget. With regard to the reforms supported by this operation, the World
Bank has undertaken extensive consultations with all relevant line ministries, who in turn lead
the consultations with a wide range of stakeholders. For example, consultative groups that
include representatives from the private sector have been formed to discuss the reforms
related to trade and business competitiveness. Also, the relevant ministries have consulted
with civil society regarding the strategic plan for the NEF, and workshops have been
organized by the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms (MCSAR) to discuss
the preparation of the HRMIS with all stakeholders.
50.   A Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) assessment prepared
jointly by the IMF, the World Bank, the UNDP, and the EU in 2010 confirmed the high
transparency standards of the Mauritian public budget. The report found that public
access to key fiscal information is adequate, with budget documents being made freely
available to the public in a timely fashion. All budget documents are posted on the
government website immediately upon the submission of the budget to Parliament, and
published documents are also made available. Also, audited year-end financial statements are
made public well within the six-month period after the completion of the audit, and contract
awards are also published on the websites of the relevant executing agencies. The PEFA
thermal systems were given to 25,000 households, and 650,000 energy saving lamps have been sold at a
subsidized rate. Existing road lighting is being replaced by energy efficient systems. In addition, two wind farm
projects and two mini hydro power projects are being implemented. The next step contemplated under the MID
fund is to enable small independent power producers to integrate into the power generation system.
16


﻿assessment gave the classification and comprehensiveness of the information included in the
budget documentation its highest possible ranking according to the Government Finance
Statistics 2001 classification system adopted by the government in 2008. However, the
reporting of extra-budgetary expenditures could be improved, and with this in mind, the
government is consolidating the various off-budget funds into one single consolidated fund.
IV. THE BANK'S SUPPORT FOR THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
A. LINK TO THE COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY
51.   The proposed DPL series is closely linked to the Country Partnership Strategy
(2007-13) for Mauritius (developed jointly by the World Bank and the Government of
Mauritius) and to the government's reform program. The Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) Progress Report approved in 2011 extended the CPS to FY2015 to align it with the
electoral cycle in Mauritius. The CPS Progress Report emphasized that the proposed DPL
series will be the Bank's main vehicle for supporting the government's broad reform program.
The DPL series is also closely aligned with the Bank's Africa Region Strategy. Streamlining
trade regulations and processes will increase competitiveness and employment creation, while
the reform of the social protection system aims to increase the amount of support provided to
the most vulnerable. Also, the reforms in the civil service and in the monitoring of SOE
performance will improve governance and increase public sector capacity. Furthermore, the
DPL emphasizes the Bank working with other development partners to produce joint analysis
(for example, on social protection with the UNDP) and to build consensus on the ongoing
reforms.
B.    COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
52.   International Monetary Fund (IMF): Mauritius has no formal program with the
IMF, though the IMF's annual Article IV reports have provided technical insights into sources
of growth, labor markets, inflation, exchange rates, and monetary and fiscal policy in
Mauritius. Also, the IMF has provided key support in the area of fiscal efficiency and budget
reform, with a focus on performance-based budgeting and the Medium-term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF). In 2011, the IMF established the Africa Regional Technical Assistance
Center South (AFRITAC South) in Mauritius to provide technical assistance to countries in
Southern Africa in areas such as macroeconomic policy, macro-fiscal policy, and public
financial management. In addition, an IMF Regional Training Center for Sub-Saharan Africa
will be opened in Mauritius in 2013. The recently completed PEFA assessment for Mauritius
was prepared jointly by the IMF, the World Bank, the UNDP, and the EU.
53.   European Union (EU): The World Bank and the EU collaborated on a joint
diagnostic and results matrix for the World Bank's CPS and the EU's 10th European
Development Fund (EDF) Country Strategy Paper for the period 2008-2013. Between 2006
and 2013, the EU has provided Mauritius with two sector budget support operations, on the
wastewater sector for E3 8 million and on the sugar sector for EI million. The latter aimed to
restructure the sugar industry in the context of the phasing out of sugar price guarantees
awarded under the former African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) Sugar Protocol. Also, it has
supported the economic reform program of Mauritius through three rounds of general budget
17


﻿support, with additional focus on education and socioeconomic empowerment, particularly of
the most vulnerable. The EU has finalized the preparation of a new three-year general budget
support program of around 686 million that will span the period 2013-2015. In addition to its
traditional areas of engagement (macroeconomic stability, sound public financial
management, and the implementation of the government program), the EU support program
will focus on performance indicators related to the sugar reform measures, education, SOEs,
health, and social protection. Close EU and Bank coordination continues, with joint prior
actions agreed in the areas of SOE reforms. The EU recently assisted Mauritius in aligning its
national data protection legislation with EU guidelines.
54.   African Development Bank (AfDB): The main African Development Bank program
in Mauritius is the ongoing US$700 million budget support operation (of which US$163
million has already been disbursed). This was approved in 2009 to mitigate the impact of the
global downturn on economic growth and employment in Mauritius while improving its trade
competiveness, health sector, ICT, and public financial management. These policy reforms
were aligned with the World Bank's previous DPL series. The AfDB has also provided
around US$3.5 million of technical assistance between 2005 and 2011 in areas such as ICT,
PBB, and public debt management. The AfDB and the World Bank have closely collaborated
in the production of economic and sector work (ESW), including the Africa Competitiveness
Report, the Investment Climate Assessment (ICA), and the Country Economic Memorandum
update.
55.   United Nations Development Program     (UNDP): The US$15 million UNDP
Country Program (2009-2012) for Mauritius was undertaken jointly with the government and
in consultation with non-state actors and development partners. The Country Program is
guided by principles of national ownership, multi-stakeholder partnerships, and synergies. It
focuses on capacity development in four strategic initiatives aimed at creating more growth
opportunities to restore the economy: (i) the Empowerment Program (EP); (ii) the Zone d'
Education Prioritaire (ZEP); (iii) program-based budgeting (PBB) and sector strategies; and
(iv) environment protection, energy, and the management of natural resources. The new
Country Program for 2013-2016 will focus on planning and resource management for
inclusive growth, on social inclusion and empowerment, and on energy and the environment.
56.   Agence FranVaise de Developpement (AFD): The AFD intervenes in the form of both
budget support and project financing in Mauritius. The main sectors of intervention are
infrastructure (transport, water, and wastewater), private sector development, and sustainable
development (the Maurice le Durable process, energy efficiency, and green energy). The
AFD disbursed 624 million per year between 2007 and 2009 in alignment with the DPL series
timetable. In 2010, the AFD budget support took a sector approach in the form of an
Environment Aid Program. A new energy development policy loan initiated in 2012 is going
to focus on the policy dialogue on energy supported by technical assistance to strengthen
planning. There is a E1.5 million grant available to support business growth, of which half has
been disbursed, as well as a 640 million program to support "green investments" by
companies, which is almost fully disbursed.
18


﻿C.    RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
57.   This DPL series is being implemented in parallel with the Bank's Private Sector
Competitiveness DPL series (to be presented to the Executive Board shortly after this
operation). The Private Sector Competitiveness (PSC) DPL series focuses on: (i) enterprise
growth and competitiveness; (ii) increasing access to finance; and (iii) promoting ICT and e-
government support. The PSC DPL series will focus primarily on strengthening the policy
and institutional environment for private sector competitiveness, while this proposed DPL
series will focus primarily on the performance of the public sector. The reforms supported by
both DPL series are complementary, and the two operations have been prepared in
coordination to ensure the coherence of the entire reform program and to keep transaction
costs low for both the government and the Bank.
58.   The policy reforms supported by the Bank's DPLs are complemented by the
US$50 million Mauritius Infrastructure Project. This sector investment loan (SIL)
approved in 2009 aims to accelerate public investment and reduce critical infrastructure
bottlenecks, mostly in the transport sector. The government aims to further strengthen
infrastructure capacity-building and is seeking a second infrastructure project to reduce
transport costs, improve road maintenance, and contribute to improved road management and
road safety in Mauritius. This project, which is expected to be approved in FY14, is
tentatively considering piloting output- and performance-based road contracts, improving
road safety management, and strengthening the institutional framework and building
institutional capacity in the transport sector.
D.    LESSONS LEARNED
59.   The last programmatic DPL series yielded important lessons that have informed
the preparation of this DPL series. These lessons included the need to ensure that: (i) the
DPL is aligned with the government's priorities and leadership; (ii) there is strong
coordination with development partners; and (iii) the loan is designed to include an
appropriate degree of flexibility to allow the government to respond to emerging crises as
well as for the reform program to evolve over time.
60.   The success of a DPL in Mauritius is measured primarily by its capacity to
stimulate and support the policy agenda rather than its financing. In Mauritius, the
government views the Bank's budget support as a catalyst for stimulating and coordinating its
policy agenda. The previous DPL series was effective in helping MoFED to bring sector
ministries and agencies on board and to align other donors with the reform effort. During the
preparation of the new series, the government has repeatedly emphasized that this is, and will
remain, the main value added of World Bank support, as it remains possible for the
government to close its financing gap in both domestic and external markets. The
government's continued realignment of the Bank portfolio away from sector investment loans
towards DPLs further underscores this.
61.   It is crucial to ensure that Bank operations are aligned with the government's
priorities and are implemented under the government's leadership. The government has a
strong sense of direction with regard to its reform program and has the technical expertise to
undertake policy dialogue with the Bank and other development partners. The Bank has
19


﻿contributed to this through its parallel preparation of economic and sector work in priority
areas. The dialogue has gradually built a consensus about the reforms and helped the
participants to articulate country priorities linked to clear and achievable outcomes.
Leadership and political commitment from the government complemented by strong
institutional capacity in designing and implementing the policy reform agenda have been the
critical factors in the success of previous operations.
62.   Strong coordination with development partners reinforces the government's
program implementation. The previous DPL series succeeded to a large extent because of
the harmonized policy dialogue among all development partners. This often translated into
joint prior actions, missions, and single reporting for all development partners, thus
significantly reducing the government's transaction costs. The operations in the programmatic
series were aligned with the government's budget cycle to reinforce national institutions and
to use the annual Budget Speech to sustain the reform process. Furthermore, the timing of the
operations was adapted to match the revised budget calendar. This joint partner approach has
weakened during the 2010 hiatus in Bank DPL support, but the proposed new DPL
programmatic series presents an opportunity to once again align the policy dialogue and the
financing of all development partners with the government's priorities.
63.   It is critical to build enough flexibility into the loan for the government to be able
to adjust and respond to the country's changing needs. The previous DPL series included
this flexibility in two important ways. First, the DPL series was able to adapt to immediate
changes in the external environment, particularly the 2008 crisis, through a rapid deferred
draw down option (DDO) as well as through an increase in the value of the loan of the third
operation. This helped to keep the reforms on track and provided the resources needed to
reduce any potential economic risks. Also, one additional operation was added to the series to
align it with the electoral cycle. Second, the previous DPL series took a flexible approach in
building support for and a consensus about the reform program, thus allowing the Bank to be
perceived as an honest broker of diverging views. This allowed the reform program to
develop over time, with the DPL serving to bolster the program and support the development
of an overall coherence and vision.
E.    ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS
64.   The preparation of this DPL series has been based on extensive analytical work
carried out by the Bank, the government, and other partners. The World Bank 2006 Aid
for Trade (AFT) Report contributed to the government reform program supported by the
previous DPL series. This work was complemented by a report produced by the Permit
Review Committee (PRC) of the Government of Mauritius and Jacobs and Associates and
DCDM Mauritius in 2009 that highlighted constraints to competitiveness such as redundant
licensing and permits and the duplication of information requested for trade. As a result, a
"single window" that connects all permit-issuing agencies was established, and a thorough
review of existing procedures for the issue of licenses and permits was launched.
Furthermore, the recommendations stemming from the 2010 Bank report titled Enhancing
and Sustaining Competitiveness in Mauritius: Policy Notes on Trade and Labor nurtured
a productive policy dialogue with the government on the issue of trade policy and labor
markets. Finally, the UNDP's 2011 Report on Trade Mainstreaming in Mauritius
20


﻿identified the successes and challenges associated with mainstreaming trade into national
development strategies.
65.   The second 2009 Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) for Mauritius prepared by
the World Bank, the AfDB, and the Board of Investment (BOI) identified some obstacles that
hinder firms' competitiveness, particularly the difficulty that small firms have in accessing
finance and the lack of skilled labor. Also, the regulatory environment (licensing, labor
regulations, and tax policy) and infrastructure (transportation and electricity) affects firms'
productivity. The recommendations made in the ICA have contributed to the reforms outlined
in the competitiveness component of this proposed operation (Pillar 2) on the need to
harmonize regulations and eliminate red tape. In 2011, the report titled Skills and
Technology Absorption in Mauritius prepared by the World Bank pointed out constraints in
both the education system and on-the-job training to increasing the skills of the workforce to
enable them to use new and emerging technologies. The report's recommendations focused on
the important role that should be played by the primary and secondary education system,
particularly in the pre-vocational system, the need to enhance the capacity of tertiary
education to teach innovative and technological skills, and the need to foster technical and
vocational education and training and active labor market programs.
66.   The government's 2010 Social Protection Review and Strategy and a 2010 joint
World Bank/UNDP report on the reform of the NEF have both guided the preparation of
the social protection component of this operation (Pillar 1). These studies identified capacity
gaps and bottlenecks in program implementation at the NEF and recommended steps to
increase its effectiveness based on international best practices. These reports have guided the
policy dialogue to improve institutional arrangements at the NEF and its social protection
strategies.
67.    The 2011 Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) assessment
(produced jointly by the IMF, the World Bank, the UNDP, and the EU) showed the progress
that had been achieved by the government since the 2007 PEFA assessment (conducted by the
EU) in moving forward the public financial management (PFM) reform agenda. Its main
achievement has been the implementation of program-based budgeting (PBB) in the past three
years. There has also been substantive work undertaken to strengthen complementary reforms,
including procurement, budget execution, and external audit processes. This has resulted in
improvements in the PEFA indicators relating to budget credibility, comprehensiveness, and
transparency in Mauritius and to policy-based budgeting. However, the assessment
highlighted a number of areas where further reforms were required including: (i)
strengthening the macro-fiscal strategy to ensure that ministers and controlling officers adhere
to the MTEF; (ii) stronger links between the multi-year estimates and subsequent annual
estimates; (iii) more credible project appraisal of capital projects; (iv) further strengthening of
tax collection arrangements; (v) reducing the frequency of in-year budget adjustments; (vi)
strengthening debt management; (vii) further strengthening internal and external audits; and
(viii) increasing the effectiveness of parliamentary oversight. The government designed a
PEFA action plan (2011-2013) focused on these reforms and has made positive progress in
implementing it. Public finance management legislation is being developed to replace the
Finance and Audit Act, the aim of which is to embed PFM requirements in law, including
enhancing the regulation of transparency and accountability and the sound management of the
revenue, expenditure, assets, and liabilities of the government.
21


﻿68.   The World Bank's 2012 technical overview note titled Improving the Performance
of the Civil Service in Mauritius provided the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative
Reform (MCSAR) with a diagnosis that supported its effort to prepare a civil service reform
strategy. The note acknowledged the incremental reforms made during the last decade to
improve the performance of the civil service and also recognized the good reputation that the
civil service in Mauritius has for discipline and probity. However, it also highlighted some
constraints to improving the performance of the civil service within the current system. The
civil service in Mauritius has changed only fairly slowly, and it retains more traditional career
structures than many other Commonwealth administrations, which undermines the
government's efforts to make the public sector more results-oriented.
69.   In 2011, the Bank produced its Corporate Governance Reports on the Observance
of Standards and Codes (ROSC) Report, which assessed the corporate governance policy
framework in Mauritius. It highlighted the fact that most of the recommendations from the
2002 Corporate Governance ROSC had been implemented and that the country now has
institutions and laws that reflect (and even set) international good practice. Additional reforms
in Mauritius should focus mostly on further helping regulatory bodies to protect investors and
to maintain financial stability and on improving governance within parastatal companies. In
addition, the Bank also prepared a Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
(ROSC) - Accounting and Auditing in 2011. The report recommended the adoption by the
private sector and SOEs of the good accounting and auditing practices necessary to produce
quality financial reports (including the implementation of the recommendations from the 2003
ROSC report). The report also recommended improved support to accountants and auditors -
including those in SOEs - to ensure that they fully comply with the stipulated financial
reporting standards and issue quality reports that support accountability and necessary
decision making.
V.     THE PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
A. OPERATION DESCRIPTION
70.   The proposed DPL, in the amount of US$20 million, is the second and last in the
current series of annual programmatic Bank operations in support of the government's
public sector reform program. This operation builds on the reforms supported by the last
DPL in this series, which was approved by the Executive Board in March 2012. The DPL
series continues to focus on those reforms that can be completed in the short term while
building the necessary foundations for broader reform in the medium term. To date, good
progress has been made in implementing most of the actions supported by the DPL series. In
many cases, initial commitments included as prior actions under the first operation have now
resulted in concrete changes in government policy and programming. The objective of this
operation is to continue to support the trend of these changes. The DPL series is aligned with
the government's budget cycle, which is the primary vehicle used by the government to
introduce new policy initiatives.
71.   The development objective of the DPL programmatic series is to support
improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the
government to implement the following three reform pillars: (i) strengthening services to
22


﻿support and empower the most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and processes;
and (iii) improving human resource management in the civil service and the monitoring of
SOE performance. Table 3 presents the proposed prior actions for this DPL, along with a
comparison of how these prior actions have evolved from the indicative triggers presented in
DPL1. Annex 1 presents the policy matrix for the overall DPL series.
Box 2: Good Practice Principles on Conditionality
Principle 1: Reinforce ownership. The proposed operation is rooted in the government's reform program as
laid out in the President's address of 2012 and Budget Speeches. The sectors selected for the DPL series were
proposed by the government, and the Bank endorses their relevance in terms of their potential impact on
growth and equity. Furthermore, the government's commitment to these reforms is demonstrated by the quick
endorsement by the Cabinet of the proposed prior actions for the operation and the steady implementation of
the Cabinet measures.
Principle 2: Agree up-front with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountability framework. In line with the government's request and the World Bank's Africa Strategy, the
DPL series seeks to harmonize the policy dialogue and the financing provided by relevant development
partners with the government's priorities as much as possible. Regular meetings between all development
partners have taken place during the preparation of the DPL series to pool resources and knowledge, and Bank
missions are open to participation by all development partners. The government sees the DPL series as an
important vehicle for achieving the objective of harmonizing policy dialogue and financing. The proposed
prior actions for DPL2 already reflect this desired harmonization and have been discussed with other partners
(such as the EU).
Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances. The proposed DPL focuses on issues of strategic importance but also on those where the
government sees a particular benefit in World Bank engagement and support, for instance, to build consensus
among all stakeholders or to overcome capacity limitations. The DPL also reflects the government's particular
interest in the Bank's knowledge services and incorporates a rich set of analytical work that underpins the
Bank's support for the government's reform agenda.
Principle 4: Choose only actions critical to achieving results as conditions for disbursement. The proposed
DPL operation has identified a small number of critical activities needed to support reforms in the three policy
areas of the government's reform program that are supported by the operation.
Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support. The programmatic nature of the proposed DPL series will ensure regular and systematic
supervision and preparation of each phase of the DPL series in line with the country's annual budget, which
has traditionally been the main vehicle for announcing policy reforms in Mauritius.
23


﻿Table 3: Evolution of Proposed Triggers to Prior Actions for DPL2
Indicative Trigger DPL2                     Proposed Prior Action for DPL2       Explanation
(at time of DPL I approval)
Pillar 1: Strengthening Services to Support and Empower the Most Vulnerable
a. Social Protection
The NEF Board will approve a strategic plan for  The Ministry of Social Integration and  The Strategic Plan will include strategies for each
each operational pillar as well as a monitoring and  Economic Empowerment approves a  operational pillar. The government has committed to
evaluation framework.                       Strategic Plan for the National      developing a monitoring and evaluation framework
Empowerment Foundation.              for the NEF but this will only be approved by Q2
2013.
The government will approve a proposal to   New social protection programs use the  The government has decided to increase the coverage
improve coverage of Social Aid to the poorest.  Social Registry of Mauritius for  of the poorest using existing and new programs under
identifying beneficiaries, and the Ministry  the NEF rather than expanding Social Aid. Enhanced
of Social Integration and Economic   use of the SRM will facilitate more effective
Empowerment adopts a timetable for   coordination among government poverty-targeted
incorporating existing National      programs.
Empowerment Foundation programs into
the Social Registry of Mauritius.
b. Education
The Ministry of Education will implement new  The Ministry of Education and Human  No change
curricula, including one for the training of  Resources implements new curricula for
trainers.                                   pre-vocational education, including one
for the training of trainers.
Pillar 2: Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes
The government will establish a technical   The Cabinet approves elimination of  The government has focused on achieving results in
secretariat to undertake regulatory impact  permits issued by the Ministry of    the removal of unnecessary permits. The World Bank
assessments (RIA).                          Industry, Commerce and Consumer      has provided capacity-building support to the
Protection for six products to further  technical secretariat to undertake RIAs as needed.
facilitate trade in the country.
24


﻿Indicative Trigger DPL2                      Proposed Prior Action for DPL2        Explanation
(at time of DPL I approval)
The government will make the trade portal public, Adoption by the Steering Committee for  The government has made progress on the
and the Cabinet will approve a memorandum    Development and Implementation of the  development of the trade portal but, due to
detailing the proposed functional model for the  single window of a functional model for  unanticipated technical complexities, it will not be
single window.                               the single window.                    ready until June 2013.
The government will adopt a prescribed schedule  The government adopts a prescribed  No change
of administrative penalties to apply at Customs.  schedule of administrative penalties for
Customs.
Pillar 3: Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service and the Monitoring of SOE Performance
a. Civil Service
Pilot implementation in MCSAR of an integrated  The Ministry of Civil Service and  MSCAR has progressed with the development of the
HRMIS for the civil service.                 Administrative Reforms appoints a firm  HRMIS but will only be ready to pilot
to develop a Human Resources          implementation in five institutions by the end of
Management Information System at five  2013.
pilot sites and adopts revised procedures
to reduce the time required to amend
schemes of service from six months to
four months.
b. Public Enterprises
Preparation of reform plans of six non-performing  The Cabinet has endorsed the    The OPSG has focused in 2012 on approving
SOEs initiated by the OPSG.                  implementation of the restructuring plans  restructuring plans for SOEs where consensus exists.
for the National Transport Corporation  In parallel, six more restructuring plans are being
and Business Park Mauritius Limited.  prepared for approval in 2013.
The Office of Public Sector Governance  The OPSG is now able to provide reports on SOE
also provided a report on State Owned  performance based on the Parastatals Information
Enterprises sector performance.       Management System (PIMS).
25


﻿B. POLICY AREAS
B.1 Strengthening Services to Support and Empower the Most Vulnerable
72.      Although poverty in Mauritius, as measured in 2007, is low there is concern of
broadening income disparity in recent years. A new household survey to be published in
2013 will update the poverty analysis last carried out in 2007. In 2007, the number of poor
represented only 8.5 percent of the total population, equivalent to about 106,000 people,12
many of whom lived in concentrated pockets of poverty, small slum communities consisting
of 20 to 40 households. Yet, while poverty is relatively low, there are concerns of widening
income disparity in recent years.
73.   Promoting inclusion and social cohesion continues to be a key element of the
Mauritian development model. The government has renewed its efforts to ensure that
economic growth is more balanced and equitable. This proposed DPL series supports these
objectives as laid out in the new government program Moving the Nation Forward by
focusing on: (i) restructuring the social protection system to make it better targeted and more
cost-effective and (ii) improving education outcomes, especially for the poorest households.
These reforms remain important not only for ensuring that Mauritius' development leads to
equitable outcomes but also for ensuring that Mauritius has effective safety nets in place as it
enters a period of considerable economic uncertainty.
Social Protection
74.   The Government of Mauritius invests significant resources in an array of social
assistance programs to support the poor and help them to rise out of poverty. These
include multiple cash and in-kind programs, active labor market programs, community
interventions, and social care services. The most important government programs to reduce
poverty are Social Aid and the various programs under the National Empowerment
Foundation (NEF). Expenditures on each of these programs are about 0.2 percent of GDP
annually. Social Aid is a means-tested program providing cash and in-kind benefits to specific
categories of eligible households. The NEF is a not-for-profit, government-owned company
under the aegis of the Ministry of Social Integration and Economic Empowerment (MoSIEE).
It delivers programs that provide training, job search assistance, and an array of services
targeted to households in the geographical pockets of poverty, including support for needy
students, remedial education, community development programs, and housing programs.
12 As measured by the relative poverty line, which defines the poverty line as half of the median household
income per adult equivalent.
26


﻿75.    The government's Social Protection Review and Strategy (2010) pointed out that
Mauritius is not realizing the greatest possible benefits from its significant investments
in social assistance. First, it continues to spend most of its resources on untargeted subsidies
and benefits. The largest of these is the universal pension, accounting for around 3.1 percent
of GDP or 90 percent of all social assistance spending. The government also subsidizes the
price of rice, flour, and cooking gas, and, except for the rice subsidy, the distributional
incidence of these subsidies is regressive.13           Figure 2: Social Aid Payments
Second,   social   assistance  is  very                  by income decile, 2006/2007
fragmented, which results in considerable      o
administrative inefficiencies, particularly   45
in programs that aim to empower the
poorest and provide cash transfers. Third,
in those targeted programs, coverage of
the poorest is quite low. For example,
Social Aid covers only around 8 percent of
the poor, and    significant amounts of
benefit are paid to those who are not poor,       1       3   4    579
with around 40 percent of benefits going               Source: Household Budget Survey, 2006/2007
to those outside the poorest quintile (see Figure 2). In the case of Social Aid, this is as a result
of categorical targeting that is not always well aligned with poverty as well as the small size
of the program relative to the scale of need. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation of social
assistance activities is weak, which means that the government is unable to assess the
effectiveness of programs or take any corrective measures.
76.    The government's medium-term objective is to transform its social safety net into
a more effective and efficient system to empower the poor and vulnerable to rise out of
poverty. Given the political difficulties that might be involved in any attempt to reform
untargeted subsidies and benefits, the government is focusing first on reforming its targeted
programs. The government began by restructuring the NEF with support from the first
operation in this DPL series. As discussed below, the restructuring has progressed well. Also,
as a basis for improving the monitoring of both Social Aid and NEF programming as well as
improving coordination and increasing impact, the government launched the Social Registry
of Mauritius (SRM), another prior action in the first operation in this series. The SRM is an
integrated management information system that provides comprehensive information on
existing and potential clients of social assistance programs with the aim of increasing
coordination among the many different programs. The government now intends to consolidate
the realignment of the NEF and to continue to bring new and existing programs into the SRM.
77.    The government is focusing on reducing errors of inclusion to improve the
delivery of Social Aid. In September 2012, the World Bank produced a policy note outlining
options for reducing errors of inclusion and exclusion in Social Aid. The policy note made a
number of recommendations for reducing errors of inclusion including: (i) making home
visits by social security officers more efficient to reduce fraud; (ii) linking the SRM with
other government databases to tighten the process of verifying household declarations of
13 These subsidies are financed by the State Trade Corporation, a parastatal in charge of importing fuel products,
which also subsidizes imports of flour and rice (13 percent of total rice consumed), which are major staples for
poor households. The combined subsidies represented around Rs 700 million (around US$23 million or 0.2
percent of GDP) in 2011.
27


﻿wealth; and (iii) including assets as well as incomes in the means test to assess household
means more accurately given the high level of informality in the economy. The government
broadly accepted these recommendations and is now considering how best to implement
them. In particular, it is developing a new proxy means test for Social Aid that will use data
from the upcoming national household budget survey.
78.   Rather than expanding Social Aid to cover more of the poor (a tentative trigger
of this operation), the government is now looking for alternative programs to provide
income support to the poor. The World Bank's policy note also proposed reducing errors of
exclusion by removing the current categorical method of assessing eligibility and replacing
this with a simple income cut-off. This would have had the effect of expanding Social Aid to
cover more of the poor. The government's response was that at this time it sees the principal
function of Social Aid as being a last resort safety net program for those who cannot be
"empowered" to rise out of poverty. Many of those currently excluded from Social Aid are
working poor, and the government prefers to use other programs to provide support to these
households. One such program that was announced in the MNF in April 2012 and was
elaborated in the November 2012 Budget Speech is a new conditional cash transfer (CCT)
program that will require recipients of a child benefit transfer to ensure that their children
attend school. The government pointed out that this new program complements several other
ongoing initiatives managed through the NEF. Although the new CCT program has yet to be
rolled out, this approach appears reasonable, and the World Bank has therefore focused the
dialogue for this DPL on the further consolidation of the SRM.
(i)   Restructuring of the National Empowerment Foundation
79.   The NEF was created when several separate programs were amalgamated,
including the National Empowerment Program (NEP), the Trust Fund for Social Integration
of Vulnerable Groups (TFSIVG), and the Eradication of Absolute Poverty (EAP) program. In
2010, responsibility for the NEF was transferred from MoFED to the newly established
MoSIEE. In 2010, the NEF assisted approximately 3,500 participants in different labor market
programs, 2,500 families with housing and other support, 18,000 students by paying for fees,
tutors, education materials, and other support, and 75 communities with various integrated
housing and infrastructure projects. For academic year 2012, some 18,000 students have
benefitted from support in terms of school material. Some 1,500 - 2,000 most needy students
benefited from educational support in terms of payment of school fees, social accompaniment,
meals and transport.
80.   After the uncoordinated programs had been brought under the umbrella of the
NEF, they still needed to be restructured as a critical first step towards improving their
performance. Even though various programs had been brought under the umbrella of the
NEF, they continued to operate autonomously and with considerable duplication and overlap,
while the NEF itself lacked sufficient planning, administrative, and implementation capacity.
As a result, the NEF was unable to achieve its monitoring targets. Although budget execution
improved from less than 50 percent in 2010 to 85 percent in 2011, the lack of meaningful
program-based budgets continues to hamper effective implementation. To respond to these
challenges, the NEF Board of Directors has now reorganized the NEF into three functional
pillars within one coordinated structure: (i) child and family development; (ii) community
empowerment; and (iii) placement and training. NEF staff has now been reassigned in
28


﻿accordance with this new structure. As part of the proposed reforms to the NEF, the
government has reviewed the focus and targeting of the Placement and Training Program (the
NEF's largest program) to ensure that it is effectively serving those with less education and
that it is a net creator of jobs. This objective has therefore been adopted as a results indicator
for this operation so the improved performance and targeting resulting from the NEF's
reforms should lead to a larger number of people with less than a secondary school certificate
accessing the Placement and Training Program.
81.   While the new NEF structure will improve service delivery, there was a need for
a comprehensive strategic plan to guide the organization. The organizational reforms
implemented to date are already bearing fruit. Previously overlapping activities have been
consolidated under the new pillars. For example, the provision of different types of education
allowances to targeted households is now consolidated under the child and family
development pillar. The NEF re-organization also introduced the concept of case
management, thus giving poor households a primary contact person within the organization
and helping to ensure the provision of a coordinated set of NEF services that meets their
needs. Field staff has been reorganized along these lines, with caseworkers reporting to case
supervisors. Case supervisors report to project coordinators responsible for each district. Each
zone comprises of three districts is placed under the management of a program manager. This
structure is now also being used to generate community-based project proposals to drive the
development of the 2013 budget. Now that the NEF is streamlined with a more logical
operational structure, NEF managers have developed a comprehensive strategic plan for the
organization, after widely discussion with civil society organizations. Both the new strategy
and the new operational structure should then significantly improve program implementation
and budget execution.
82.   Ensuring the rigorous monitoring of NEF interventions will be critical to
providing assistance that meets clients' needs in a cost-effective way. The NEF lacks the
capacity and systems to gather the necessary evidence on the performance of programs that is
needed to inform policymaking. It particularly lacks a systematic and rigorous monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system. While an M&E unit has been included in the new NEF structure,
there is still no overarching framework for M&E. The NEF is currently staffing the new M&E
unit and is receiving technical assistance from the UNDP to build the capacity of these
personnel. The MSIEE has now made arrangements to bring on board further technical
assistance to support the development of a comprehensive M&E plan for the organization,
which should be finalized during the course of 2013.
Prior Action for DPL 2: The Ministry of Social Integration and Economic Empowerment
approves a Strategic Plan for the National Empowerment Foundation.
(ii)  Further Consolidation of the Social Register ofMauritius
83.   The government introduced the Social Register of Mauritius (SRM) in early 2012
to enable the collection of more and better information about the most vulnerable. The
objective of the SRM is to collect more comprehensive information about social protection
clients. Having started with the Social Aid and NEF clients, the SRM will now be expanded
to cover other targeted programs in Mauritius, resulting in a nationwide dynamic database that
will be a key policy design and planning tool as well as enabling more effective poverty
29


﻿monitoring. This "single registry" approach has helped many countries to improve monitoring
and integrate all of the programs delivering services within their social protection systems.
Clients register in the SRM at local social security offices regardless of which programs have
screened them. To date some 11,693 families have been registered, thus reaching the goal set
for 2012 by the DPL series.14 The initial focus has been on registering Social Aid
beneficiaries in the SRM. In June 2012, the Cabinet issued a decision indicating that all new
poverty-targeted programs must use the SRM to identify their beneficiaries. It is now been
piloted for use in two new government programs implemented by the NEF - a social housing
scheme and subsidized access to cr&ches. The government has used the SRM to register all
potential beneficiaries and to apply a proxy means test (PMT) to registered households to
determine their eligibility for these two new programs. This screening process using the SRM
has now been completed, and the NEF is now moving forward with implementing the
programs. The use of a PMT for targeting, rather than simply relying on a traditional means-
test, promises to make targeting more accurate in a country where informality remains
relatively high. The experience of using the SRM as an improved targeting tool for social
protection programs further demonstrates the potential efficiency gains that could result from
the widespread adoption of this tool.
84.   The progress made to date has demonstrated the potential of the SRM but more
needs to be done. The registration of all Social Aid beneficiaries and the use of the SRM for
registering and screening beneficiaries for the new NEF programs demonstrate the potential
of the SRM, but more needs to be done to make it an effective platform for targeting and
linking different government programs. The incorporation of the core existing NEF clientele
into the SRM has been delayed because of IT compatibility issues and poor coordination
between the NEF and the Ministry of Social Security, National Solidarity, and Reform
Institutions (MoSS). With the facilitation of MoFED, the remaining bottlenecks have now
largely been overcome, and the MoSIEE has developed an action plan and a clear timetable
for ensuring that all existing NEF beneficiaries are registered in the SRM.
Prior Action for DPL 2: New social protection programs use the Social Registry of Mauritius
for identifying beneficiaries, and the Ministry of Social Integration and Economic
Empowerment adopts a timetable for incorporating existing National Empowerment
Foundation programs into the Social Registry ofMauritius.
Education
85.   Education opportunities have significantly expanded over the last decades, but
Mauritius lags behind other middle-income countries in most education indicators and
outcomes. Although the goals of universal access to primary education and gender parity in
enrollment has been achieved, the major challenge in the area of primary education remains
the low quality of learning achievement and the large number of students who do not move up
to the secondary education level. Recent increases in public spending on basic education have
had only limited results. Total spending on education as a percentage of GDP increased from
3.7 percent in 2005/06 to 4 percent in 2010, but pass rates and retention rates at all levels did
not change significantly during this period. Moreover, Mauritius is significantly
14 Sixty-one percent of those registered in the SRM are women, reflecting the focus on female-headed
households in the current categorical targeting of Social Aid.
30


﻿underperforming in terms of its students' learning achievements. According to the 2009
Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) results, only 53 percent of students in
Mauritius had the most basic proficiency in reading, and only 50 percent of students were
found to have mastered mathematics at or above the baseline level needed to participate
effectively and productively in life.15 This puts Mauritius among the lowest OECD
comparators for each of these indicators.
86.    The failure rate at the Certificate of Primary Education (CPE) level has been
consistently high, and learning outcomes at the end of primary education are unequally
distributed. About 31 percent of children of primary school age failed the CPE in 2010, with
the percentage of unsuccessful boys far exceeding that of girls (37 percent compared with 26
percent). Education outcomes are distributed unequally, which is most evident in the low
CPE pass rates in the 28 ZEP (Zone d'Education Prioritaire) schools, which are often located
in the poorest areas. Only 36.2 percent of ZEP school students passed the CPE in 2010
compared with a national average of 68.5 percent. Two factors lie behind this disparity in
results. First, students from poor families live in a considerably more challenging social
environment than those from better-off families. According to the 2009 PISA results,
Mauritius is second only to Chile in between-school variance in reading performance. Second,
competitiveness within the educational system is driving parents to rely heavily on private
tuition to improve their children's education. In 2008, more than 85 percent of parents had
paid for private tuition. Private tuition has become a substantial cost for families, and it is
likely that the poorest families have the greatest difficulty in affording it. The government has
taken some measures to alleviate the financial burden on the poorest households, including
providing subsidies for transportation, textbooks, meals, and examination fees. In 2010 it
launched an Enhancement Program that aims to replace private tutoring with supplementary
classes for fourth grade students. However, these measures have had little effect so far on the
CPE pass rate in ZEP schools, which has remained stable since 2006. New initiatives continue
to be introduced. From 2013, the government will launch a new conditional cash transfer for
poor households that will require recipients to ensure that their children attend school
throughout the primary level and that they pass the CPE.
87.    Learning opportunities for those who fail the CPE are limited to a pre-vocational
stream, which has not been able to meet the needs of the latter. Passing the CPE is a
prerequisite for entering general secondary education, and pupils who fail the CPE twice must
drop out of the general education stream and attend pre-vocational classes. About 7,200
pupils, about one-third of the cohort, attended pre-vocational education in 2011, down from
9,500 in 2007.17 About 70 percent of enrollments were in private secondary schools, which
are subsidized by the state. Moreover, attendance in pre-vocational education is marked by a
strong gender bias and two-thirds of enrollees were male in 2011. The poor performance of
pre-vocational education is evidenced by high dropout rates, averaging 24 percent of total
enrollments over the past five years, as well as by the failure of a large number of students in
the pre-vocational stream to move on to technical and vocational education and training
1 The PISA report noted that there was no statistically significant difference in the performance of boys and girls
in mathematical literacy, but girls outperformed boys in scientific literacy.
16 Ministry of Education and Human Resources (MoEHR).
17 This figure refers to the total number of students in pre-vocational education. Around 2,600 students currently
enter pre-vocational education each year (Ministry of Education and Human Resources, 2011 Statistical
Yearbook).
31


﻿(TVET).18 This poor performance can be attributed to: (i) a lack of teacher training in
pedagogical skills, especially with regard to students with learning difficulties and (ii) limited
access to learning and teaching materials and the inadequacy of the curricula. Improving the
performance of the pre-vocational education stream would, therefore, help to meet the
learning needs of the poorest and to reduce gender inequality in learning achievements.
88.    Redressing unequal education outcomes is essential to break the vicious cycle of
poverty. According to 2006/07 data, (relative) poverty incidence is more prevalent among
households headed by people with an educational attainment lower than the CPE (two-thirds
of the poorest households are headed by people who did not pass the CPE).19 Children
belonging to these households face significant challenges in accumulating human capital and
are likely to inherit the vulnerability that exists in their households. This is reflected in the
significant share that those without a lower secondary education represent among the
unemployed (62 percent of the unemployed only have a primary education, and 22 percent of
the unemployed have not completed primary education).20 As these figures show, the
completion of a lower secondary education is an important predictor of employment
outcomes.
89.    The government's medium-term       objective is to   ensure that the most
disadvantaged have access to good quality secondary education by improving the
performance of pre-vocational education. In response to the challenges raised by low and
unequal learning achievements, the government adopted an Education Sector Strategy (ESS)
in 2010 with the overall objective of developing a culture of achievement and excellence that
will yield the human resources necessary to transform Mauritius into a knowledge-based
economy. At the primary education level, the government recognizes that the dual purpose of
the CPE - certifying the completion of primary education and selecting students to enter
secondary school - coupled with the unequal distribution of learning outcomes is a key
constraint to enabling poor students to access economic opportunities and thus also to
reducing poverty and stimulating growth. It has re-launched a comprehensive consultation
process on the reform of the CPE, to be concluded in 2013, with the aim of increasing the
number of students who transition into secondary education. The reform is expected to limit
the purpose of the CPE examination to providing a certification to primary education
graduates. In the meantime, the government has moved forward with significant reforms to
the structure and content of the pre-vocational stream.
90.    A comprehensive reform of the pre-vocational stream is expected to facilitate the
transition of students from school to work and to increase the number of pre-vocational
graduates who progress to TVET. Supported by the first operation under this DPL series,
government's approval was obtained for a broad reform that, by increasing retention and
enhancing the quality of pre-vocational education, was expected to equip future graduates of
pre-vocational education with the basic skills needed to enter the labor market or continue
with further education in the TVET stream. The implementation of the reforms began at the
start of the 2012 academic year. The main pillars of the reform include:
18 Data from the Ministry of Education and Human Resources, 2011. Concept Paper for the Pre-vocational
Reform.
19 All data are from the 2006/2007 Poverty Analysis, Central Statistics Office, MoFED (2009).
20 Statistics Mauritius.
32


﻿* A new curriculum and syllabus that strongly emphasize activity-based learning. To
launch the new curriculum, the Ministry of Education and Human Resources (MoEHR) has
rolled out a comprehensive teacher training course that focuses on Year 1 and Year 2 of the
pre-vocational stream. The MoEHR has also identified eight representative schools to assess
how the new curriculum is being implemented and identify any additional resources that
might be needed to ensure its success.
* A tracking and monitoring mechanism to identify at an early stage those students at
risk of dropping out and that will include a dedicated team of specialists that can provide
these students with additional support to prevent them from dropping out.
* An extension of the pre-vocational cycle to a fourth year by integrating the
foundation year21 into the pre-vocational curriculum with the aim of increasing retention
rates. The teaching will gradually focus on formal skills that are part of the vocational system
as students move through the pre-vocational stream. The first cohort of students will graduate
from the new four-year program in 2014.
* Anchoring the pre-vocational stream in the national qualification framework by
creating a Pre-vocational Certificate recognized by the Mauritius Qualification Authority. The
MoEHR expects to reach a final decision sometime in 2013 on the provision of a National
Trade Certificate Level 1 for those graduating from Year 4 that will be the foundation that
allows students to continue with formal vocational training.
Prior Action for DPL 2: The Ministry of Education and Human Resources implements new
curricula for pre-vocational education, including one for the training of trainers.
B.2 STREAMLINING TRADE REGULATION AND PROCESSES
91.    Trade liberalization has been key in increasing the country's competitiveness.
With the support of the previous DPL programmatic series (2006-2010), the government
reduced tariffs and established a joint public-private sector standing committee to review the
regulations related to import and export licenses with a view to eliminating unwarranted
barriers to trade. As a result, duties on 87 percent of tariff lines have been eliminated, the
highest tariff rate was reduced from 60 percent to 30 percent in 2008/09, the number of bands
was reduced from seven to three, and the average Most Favored Nation (MFN) applied tariff
is now 3.8 percent.
92.    The government's objective is to continue Mauritius' transformation into an
open, low tax, and business-friendly economy by further reforming the regulatory
framework and removing administrative bottlenecks. In Mauritius, as elsewhere,
regulations are increasing as a result of society's demands to regulate markets and control
health and environmental hazards. These regulations play an important social role and fulfill
key policy objectives, but if they are not properly designed, they can raise transaction costs (in
particular cross-border ones) and production costs by making imported products more
expensive or by generating red tape. A World Bank report on trade and labor completed in
21 Currently, after completing the three years of pre-vocational education, students follow the one-year National
Trade Certificate Foundation Course delivered by the Mauritius Institute of Training and Development (MITD),
which, once completed, gives them access to vocational apprenticeships and trade certificates.
33


﻿2010 identified the main weaknesses in the regulatory environment in Mauritius as: (i) a lack
of a systematic approach to assessing the costs and benefits of regulations; (ii) a duplication of
requirements and a lack of coordination among many ministries and agencies; (iii) excessive
reliance on ex-ante inspections rather than random and targeted ex-post controls; and (iv) the
absence of any procedures allowing businesses to appeal against regulatory rulings. With the
support of this proposed DPL series, the government is addressing these challenges by
adopting the following measures: (i) streamlining existing regulations and systematically
ensuring that the design of new regulations is conducive to business; (ii) increasing
administrative efficiency in trade processes by using IT; and (iii) enhancing the effectiveness
of the administrative appeals and penalties of the Mauritius Customs service.
(i) Streamlining existing regulations and systematically ensuring that the design of new
regulations is conducive to business.
93.    To increase transparency and to make the regulatory environment more
business-friendly, the Government of Mauritius has improved coordination among the
several ongoing initiatives that were set up to accelerate the review of existing business
regulations. With the support of the first Public Sector Performance DPL, the government
has established a joint public-private business facilitation task force to strengthen the review
process for business regulations and other business-related procedures. This body coordinates
the current initiatives  that are reviewing business licenses and permits, non-tariff-barriers,
doing business indicators, and related activities. The task force is composed of high-level
representatives from ministries, development partners, the private sector, and the Board of
Investment (which also acts as the Secretariat). This task force has five technical
subcommittees that cover: (i) morcellement permits, environmental impact assessments, and
land conversion permits; (ii) import and export permits and the trade portal; (iii) tourism; (iv)
building and land use permits and the e-platform; and (v) utilities.
94.    An Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) was set up in July 2012 to review the
recommendations made by the task force and its technical committees. The first Inter-
Ministerial Meeting took place in August 2012 to accelerate the implementation of these
recommendations, and some measures have already been implemented. For instance, a silent
agreement rule has been adopted for processing building and land use permits at the local
authority level, in which these permits are deemed to have been approved two weeks after the
effective date of receipt of the application if the local authority has not responded by then.
95.    The Board of Investment (BOI) will carry out technical impact assessments on
the country's regulations with a view to making them more business-friendly. With the
support of this DPL and in line with the government's objective of making regulations more
business-friendly, the Bank has built the capacity of various ministries and agencies to
conduct periodic impact assessments of their trade regulations under the supervision of the
BOI.23 These assessments will provide the task force with information on how      these
22 These initiatives include: the Non-tariff Barriers (NTB) Review Committee at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Regional Integration, and International Trade, the Committee at the Mauritius Standards Bureau, the Permit
Review Committee (PRC) at the Ministry of Business, Enterprise, and Cooperatives, and the Doing Business
Initiative led by the Board of Investment (BOI).
23 The methodology for the RIA involves a sequence of analytical steps: (i) stating the problem and how the
regulation is expected to address it; (ii) stating feasible policy options (approaches and instruments); and (iii)
34


﻿regulations affect business and competitiveness and will make recommendations for changes
that would make the regulations more business-friendly without undermining any regulatory
objectives. While the BOI is developing the required expertise to analyze complex
regulations, this task will be outsourced to external institutions that already possess adequate
capacity. Also, as the BOI works to ensure that existing regulations are streamlined, the
government is continuing to assess alternative systematic and formal screening systems to
ensure that new regulations do not unnecessarily constrain the business climate.
96.    The revised prior action for DPL 2 supports these efforts to make the regulatory
climate of Mauritius more business-friendly. To this end, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Regional Integration and International Trade together with the Ministry of Industry,
Commerce and Consumer Protection, the BOI and the private sector identified a series of
products for which import permits will no longer be required, the issuance of permits will be
streamlined, or unnecessary procedures will be eliminated. The Cabinet approved the
elimination of import permits for 14 products in November 2011, and during 2012 the
required regulations to effectively eliminate them have been amended. In the same spirit, the
Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Consumer Protection, together with other stakeholders,
has identified six products for which it no longer requires import permits. Accordingly, the
ministry has issued regulations to approve the elimination of these six permits. The revised
prior action goes beyond what was initially envisaged in the proposed trigger, as it eliminates
import permits instead of just setting up a technical secretariat to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment. In total, with the removal of some permits by the Ministry of Fisheries, this
represents removal of 26 unnecessary permits that have so far been abolished, surpassing the
target of 10 that was to be achieved by 2012 under this operation.
Prior Action for DPL 2: The Cabinet approves elimination of permits issued by the Ministry
of Industry, Commerce and Consumer Protection for six products to further facilitate trade in
the country.
(ii) Promoting administrative efficiency in trade processes by using IT
97.    The government has made great strides in improving trade administration by
making use of IT solutions. Mauritius Network Services Limited (MNS) developed the
automated TradeNet network in 1994 to allow traders, Customs brokers, shipping agents, and
freight forwarders to submit trade documents to the government in a more cost-efficient way.
This has reduced the time needed to process declarations and has eliminated the duplication of
information requested by different agencies. Commercial banks are also linked to this
network, thus enabling businesses to pay their duties and taxes electronically. Since 2001, the
Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Consumer Protection has also been linked to the
TradeNet system, which allows traders to submit their documentation to the ministry for
online processing. In conjunction with TradeNET, MNS also developed an automated
Customs declaration processing system - the Customs Management System (CMS) - to
electronically process and approve documents submitted by traders. The Ministry of Business,
Enterprise, and Cooperatives (MoBECC) is also linked through the TradeNET system to the
evaluating the impact of the regulation on trade and competitiveness and balancing it against the regulation's
main objectives.
35


﻿CMS, which makes it possible to accelerate the processing and clearing of documents.
However, other ministries and agencies are not yet connected to this network.
98.    Although sector ministries publish the administrative requirements for the
business operations that fall under their jurisdiction on their websites, this has not been
completed in a systematic way. Each ministry has a website, but these are often not
comprehensive, user-friendly, or up-to-date. Moreover, the websites of sector ministries only
present the trade and business requirements that are under the purview of that particular
ministry and do not mention any authorizations that may be needed by other ministries.
Scattered information and the lack of coordination among the multiple agencies that issue
permits/clearances increase importers' business costs.
99.    With the support of the first Public Sector Performance DPL, the government
identified all trade regulations and legislation and prepared an action plan to establish a
single online trade information portal. This portal has the benefit of increasing the
transparency and accessibility of all regulations listed by national tariff line for both importers
and exporters. This system, once fully implemented, will facilitate exchanges of information
on regulatory policy, thus fostering public participation and stakeholder involvement. A
number of steps in the action plan have already been completed. The government has
completed a full stocktaking of all relevant import procedures and requirements at the tariff
line level. This database complements the tariff dataset that the Customs Department uses to
process declarations and includes searchable data on all trade-related laws, regulations,
procedures, fees, penalties, and permits/licenses.
100.   In parallel, the government has started implementing a "single window" with the
support of this DPL series. This will not only provide information but will also fully
integrate all trade-related processing systems. In addition to the seamless interoperability
between the trade portal and single window IT systems, the single window will also provide
information on the advance rulings on tariff classification, on the procedure for lodging
appeals against the decisions of border management agencies, on notifications of changes to
rules or procedures, on the process by which traders can comment on pending regulatory
changes, and on how the government is performing against service standards.
101.   The government has detailed the functional model for the single window. This
functional model includes: (i) an agreed governance model; (ii) an operating model and
modalities; (iii) defined service-level agreements between the participating entities and the
external users; (iv) a clear statement of core functionalities; (v) clear implementation
timelines; and (vi) an agreed technology plan. A steering committee chaired by a MoFED
representative has been mandated by the Cabinet to work on this agenda. The Customs
Department has undertaken surveys of all ministries to collect relevant information on
business processes in order to prepare the workflow and processes for each ministry, division,
and department. The Custom Department validated the data gathered with the assistance of
relevant ministries. This process has yielded useful information that has been taken into
account in the design of the functional model and in ensuring consistency among departments.
102.   The government will subcontract the development of the single window system to
Mauritius Network Services Limited (MNS). MNS, of which the government is a
shareholder, has created an IT platform that links all of the key government agencies involved
36


﻿in regulating import and export activities. Given this previous experience, the government has
decided to ask MNS to upgrade its system to accommodate the functional model for the single
window.
103.   The government expects that by the end of this DPL operation both the trade
portal and the single window will be operational. Although the implementation of the trade
portal is on the right track, it has suffered a delay of around six months compared to the
timetable envisaged in the action plan. This delay is mainly due to the unanticipated technical
and institutional complexities involved in coordinating many different ministries and
departments. It is now expected that the trade portal will be fully operational by June 2013.
The government expects that by the end of this programmatic DPL series all ministries and
government agencies will be connected to the single window, which will streamline the
process of obtaining permits and clearances and shorten the time required to obtain them.
This will meet the expected result for the DPL series related to this reform.
Prior Action for DPL 2: Adoption by the Steering Committee for Development and
Implementation of the single window of a functional model for the single window.
(iii) Enhancing the effectiveness of the Mauritius Customs administrative appeals and
penalties.
104.   The current administrative appeals and penalties system        at the Customs
Department lacks transparency and predictability. Changes are needed to reduce the time
and costs involved in settling cases administratively while also increasing Customs
compliance. The current appeals mechanism has three stages: first, an internal appeal
mechanism   (within Customs or the Mauritius Revenue Authority, MRA),24 second, an
independent administrative mechanism (an Assessment Review Committee), and finally,
judicial proceedings. The Customs Act makes provision for administrative penalties, and the
Customs Department makes use of a schedule of Customs administrative penalties. The value
of these administrative penalties is determined by the Customs Department on a case-by-case
basis and ultimately is settled in each case with the operators involved. The operators would
prefer a clear and prescribed schedule of administrative penalties.25
105.   A rules-based system is needed to administer administrative penalties, thereby
enhancing the transparency, predictability, efficiency, and effectiveness of Customs.
With the support of this operation, the government will adopt a prescribed mechanism and
schedule of published administrative penalties that will be applied by Customs according to
the level of the offense. The government will set out amendments to the Customs Act to
include the list of the offences that will be subject to administrative penalties as well as the
penalty amounts. The amendments will also give the Director-General of the Mauritius
Revenue Authority (MRA) the responsibility for administering this penalty system. The
government has held consultations with stakeholders and will continue these discussions
before the regulations come into force. This will not only enhance transparency and
24 The MRA is the government's institution in charge of managing and operating revenue organization. This
authority deals with all revenue-raising institutions including the Customs Department.
25 In reality, Customs may only have limited capacity to exercise discretion as the penalties imposed are
determined on the basis of a detailed set of Departmental Instructions and Guidelines. The Guidelines prescribe
the schedule of penalties but are not made available to the general public.
37


﻿predictability and reduce the perception that Customs officials can make arbitrary decisions,
but it will also pave the way for "settlement by a ruling"26 as specified in the revised Kyoto
Convention. The Director-General will also issue a set of Customs instructions giving more
details about the penalty mechanism. This will expedite and decentralize the process of
making administrative penalty decisions, thus reducing the costs and time incurred by both
Customs officials and traders. The legislation, regulations, and instructions that will create the
administrative penalty mechanism will provide a rules-based framework that will expedite
rulings, and this in turn will reduce the costs and time of both Customs officials and traders.
This framework will also allow traders to make complaints if necessary to the MRA
Objections Department, and if they remain dissatisfied, they will be able to bring their
complaints to the Assessment Review Committee.
106.   With the support of this DPL series, the government has set up an internal
appeals mechanism (also called the "objection procedures") within the MRA-Customs in
line with the revised Kyoto Convention.27 The government has set up within the MRA a
dedicated Objections, Appeals, and Dispute Resolution Department that will cover all taxes
and duties, including those administered by the Customs and Excises Department. This was
formally adopted by Parliament as part of the Finance Bill in November 2012. This will
increase transparency and predictability within the Customs Department, thus ensuring the
independence and fairness of the appeals process. It is expected that the time allowed to
operators to settle their Customs administrative penalty will be reduced from six to three
weeks, which is a results indicator for this operation.
Prior Action for DPL 2: The government adopts a prescribed schedule of administrative
penalties for Customs.
B.3 Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service and
the Monitoring of SOE Performance
107.   The public sector plays a pivotal role in the Mauritian economy as it represents
around 25 percent of GDP and 25 percent of all investment. The central government
comprises 25 ministries and some 50 departments and is the biggest single employer in the
country with around 53,000 public servants (representing 10 percent of all employment and
4.1 percent of the total population). The public sector wage bill will represent 8.8 percent of
26 Revised Kyoto Convention Specific Annex H Chapter 1 Standard 19 and its associated Guidelines. National
legislations may empower Customs Departments to administer the settlement of a customs offence. Settlements
may take the form of a "compromise settlement" or a "settlement by ruling." A "compromise settlement" means
an agreement under which a Customs Department, being so empowered, consents to waive proceedings in
respect of a customs offence subject to compliance with certain conditions by the person(s) implicated in the
offence. The Government of Mauritius has decided to change from a "compromise settlement" to a "settlement
by ruling" in line with best international practices. This will mean adopting a transparent set of rules that will
define the procedures and penalties to charge under different customs offences, thus increasing the predictability
of the Customs penalty system.
27 Revised Kyoto Convention General Annex Standard 10.4 is clear that "National Legislation shall provide for
the right of an initial appeal to the Customs." Its Guidelines explain that "the appeal may be made to the
Customs Office responsible for the decision or omission or to a higher authority within the Customs
administration."
38


﻿GDP   after the implementation of the 2012 Pay Research Bureau28 report, which
recommended a 22 percent increase in public sector wages (about 1.2 percent of GDP). This
share is in line with what is spent on public sector wages in comparable countries in the
region. There has also been a proliferation of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in Mauritius in
recent years. Parastatal bodies and statutory corporations are spread over almost all economic
sub-sectors including the utilities and the commercial, economic, educational, welfare, social,
and cultural sectors. To date, there are some 150 SOEs and parastatals supervised by different
line ministries and departments, employing around 20,000 people or 1.6 percent of the
population. This compounds the challenges of reforming the role of the state and
strengthening public sector management.
108.   Despite Mauritius' relatively high level of development, its public sector is still
less efficient than those of other upper-middle-income countries. Many services continue
to be costly and of poor quality, in many instances because the public sector is not efficient in
delivering services or regulating markets. Throughout the economy, the poor quality of public
services and the very limited monitoring and evaluation of these services drives down average
productivity. For example, air fares are expensive because of restrained air access among
others, which limits tourist arrivals and international business. High telecommunications
charges hamper the off-shore financial sector and ICT industry and limit businesses' vital
access to the Internet. Electricity is also more expensive in Mauritius than in comparable
countries. Water is in short supply.
109.     This proposed DPL continues to support the establishment of the building
blocks needed to increase public sector efficiency in the medium term. The proposed DPL
will assist the government in its efforts to make further efficiency gains and to improve
service delivery in the public sector. Because public sector reforms will require consensus
between diverse stakeholders and may affect the current political equilibrium, the government
will continue to take a strategically incremental approach. As a result, this proposed DPL
aims to increase the efficiency of the public sector by supporting the streamlining of civil
service management and the strengthening of the coordination and monitoring of SOEs to
increase their efficiency and transparency.
The Civil Service
110.   The civil service in Mauritius is generally well regarded and retains a strong
tradition of discipline, but it is also affected by constraints that limit its effectiveness.
The government has introduced several important changes to the civil service in the last
decade, such as a performance management system, performance-based budgeting, total
quality management, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certification,
citizen charters, and public service excellence awards as well as the establishment of reform
units within ministries. However, the pace of these reforms has been slow, and there are
constraints to moving forward with further reforms, particularly regarding performance
management. These constraints include a lack of clarity on the roles and authority of senior
staff, uncertainty about agency objectives and targets, and the insulation of senior managers
from external demands. All of these factors have a negative effect on senior managers in
28 The Pay Research Bureau carries out a review of public sector salaries and conditions every five years and
produces a major report with recommendations on the reform of the civil service. The last report was issued on
October 9, 2012.
39


﻿terms of their accountability and their motivation to manage their staff and their agencies,
which in turn negatively affects the performance of the civil service. As a result, goals and
targets adopted in the budget are not always credible, and the budget does not fully reflect the
required allocation of human resources.
111.   Senior managers lack the authority and flexibility to be able to get the most value
from their staff, which constrains their ability to deliver results. For example, they do not
have the authority to recruit their own staff within a given budgetary ceiling, the capacity to
manage and strengthen their departmental staff, or the means to motivate staff to deliver
within the current arrangements. These factors translate into high staff turnover rates,
difficulties in retaining technical specialists, and lengthy recruitment processes, all of which
make long-term human resource planning more difficult. As a result, the productivity of
individual staff members tends to be low, and workers with much-needed but scarce skills are
hard to attract and retain within the public sector. In addition, only a limited amount of key
data is available on the civil service, which makes it difficult to manage and monitor the
performance of civil servants and of the civil service as a whole.
112.   These constraints will require parallel efforts to increase the efficiency and
transparency of the civil service and, at the same time, to give senior managers more
flexibility in managing their staff while also increasing their accountability. The current
reform efforts focus on three main areas: (i) the development of a civil service strategy and a
medium-term action plan for reform; (ii) a review of the schemes of service to ease some
cumbersome administrative constraints; and (iii) the design and implementation of the Human
Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) to generate key information to monitor
and manage the civil service, to identify reform goals, and to monitor the implementation of
future reforms.
113.   Progress has been made in these three areas since the first operation in this DPL
series was approved, but it has been incremental. The MCSAR is preparing a human
resources reform strategy to address the concerns laid out above and to modernize the
management of the civil service. The strategy will be informed by a recent Civil Service Note
drafted by the Bank and discussed in a workshop on civil service strategy held in Mauritius in
early 2012. It will also incorporate recommendations stemming from the most recent report
from the Pay Research Bureau (under the aegis of the Prime Minister's Office) issued in
October 2012 that reviewed civil service conditions and salary. The MCSAR expects to
produce a first draft of the strategy by mid-2013.
114.   The MCSAR has also started to simplify the processing of schemes of service
with the aim of improving service delivery and increasing civil service efficiency.
Schemes of service are legal documents in the public sector that bind the employee to the
employer and specify the qualifications, competencies, skills, and experience required of the
job holder as well as the duties and responsibilities of the job.29 The multiplicity of schemes
29 A scheme of service is a legal document that specifies the grade, salary, mode of appointment, qualifications,
duties, and responsibilities of an employee in a ministry. It is an integral part of the effective selection and/or
promotion of the most suitably qualified personnel within the civil service and is key for ensuring due process.
Although the MCSAR is responsible for any changes in schemes of service, each scheme of service must be
approved by the Public Service Commission before a vacancy is advertised and filled. In contrast to other
Commonwealth countries, in Mauritius, schemes of service have not been simplified or consolidated and are
40


﻿of service and the cumbersome process required to amend them significantly delays the hiring
process, makes the service less attractive to qualified staff, and makes recruitment from an
increasingly dynamic labor market more difficult. Reducing the total number of schemes of
service and simplifying the process needed to amend them will lower transaction costs and
align Mauritius' practices with those of other advanced Commonwealth countries.
115.   The MCSAR has started to consolidate the many schemes of service and to
simplify the amendment process. The ministry expects to reduce the number of schemes of
service from more than 2,500 to around 2,375 by December 2013. In line with the
recommendations of the Pay Research Bureau report, it is expected that these will be further
reduced to around 2,156 by 2014 and to 1,918 by 2015 once all of the recommendations have
been implemented. The MCSAR has adopted regulations that reduce the time required to
amend a scheme of service from six to four months. The ministry is also developing an e-
platform that will facilitate the required consultations with different stakeholders and is
expected to further reduce the amendment time to three months by 2015. Furthermore, it is
revising the qualifications required for entry-level grades in the civil service so that the
schemes of service for such positions will specify only the highest qualification needed, thus
further simplifying the amendment process. o Moving forward, while the PRB report takes a
relatively conservative approach on the consolidation of the overall numbers and the
reduction of time required for the prescription and amendment of schemes of service, it is
important for the MCSAR to move expeditiously on this issue.
116. The MCSAR has also made progress on the design and implementation of a
Human Resources Management Information System (HRMIS) to facilitate human
resource transactions and workforce and performance management within the civil
service. The system will also increase the technical capacity in the MCSAR to plan for human
resource needs over the medium and long terms. By making data more easily manageable and
available, both urgently needed given the challenges in the civil service described above, the
HRMIS will also make it easier to manage and monitor civil servants, thus contributing to
better civil service performance. This is in line with the government's other efforts to become
more results-oriented, such as PBB and the ongoing development of a government-wide M&E
system. Once it is fully operational, the HRMIS will integrate all of the payroll and personnel
systems throughout the civil service and link them to the Treasury's accounting system. A
high-level steering committee, chaired by a MCSAR representative, has been set up to prepare
the HRMIS and to ensure its timely implementation.31
specific to every job and grade. The procedure for modifying them entails a complex series of consultations with
various stakeholders, and this generally turns out to be an onerous and time-consuming procedure. Also, the
proliferation of schemes of service makes it difficult to transfer staff to different positions quickly and efficiently
in response to rapidly changing priorities.
30 The removal of the basic qualifications in schemes of service for posts requiring a Diploma or higher
qualification would thus: (i) simplify the item "Qualifications" in schemes of service, which presently contains
too much detail and (ii) ensure that all candidates who possess a Diploma or higher qualification become eligible
to be considered for posts requiring such qualifications irrespective of the lower basic qualifications that they
possess.
3 Three working groups have been set up to: (i) propose ways to simplify human resource functions, practices,
and processes; (ii) integrate the HRMIS into the Treasury's systems; and (iii) assess the required ICT
infrastructure.
41


﻿117.  Consultations on the systems requirements of the HRMIS have caused the
government to reevaluate the timeline of the project. The government held participatory
workshops with all stakeholders in April, September, and November 2012 to discuss the
systems requirements of the HRMIS. These discussions made clear the complexities involved
in the technical and institutional design requirements of the HRMIS and showed that it was
not going to be feasible to make it operational throughout the entire public sector in 2013.
Accordingly, these recommendations have been incorporated in the design of the HRMIS, and
a new implementation plan has been adopted, according to which the HRMIS will become
operational in five pilot sites during 2013. The Cabinet endorsed the pilot sites selected,
which are the MCSAR, MoFED, the Ministry of Information and Communication
Technology, the Treasury Department, the Public and Disciplined Forces Service
Commissions, and the MoEHR. A committee has been formed comprising staff from the
ministries in which the HRMIS is going to be piloted. The lessons learned from these pilots
will inform the next stage of the HRMIS that will be rolled out to 10 additional ministries or
departments during 2014 and will be fully implemented in 2015. To this end, the government
has appropriated financial resources in the 2013 budget with additional funding foreseen for
2014 in the MCSAR medium-term expenditure framework. Also, the MCSAR and the
Ministry of Information and Communication Technology have finalized the technical and
financial specifications for the HRMIS, and in January 2013, the MCSAR selected a public
company, State Informatics Ltd, to implement the HRMIS project.
Prior Action for DPL 2: The Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms appoints a
firm to develop a Human Resources Management Information System at five pilot sites and
adopts revised procedures to reduce the time required to amend schemes of service from six
months to four months.
State-owned Enterprises and Parastatals
118.  Significant efforts have been made over the past decade to reduce the fiscal
burden that state-owned enterprises (SOEs) represent.32 These efforts have had a positive
impact (the revenues of the 15 largest SOEs grew by 5 percent between 2005 and 2011), but
efforts to increase efficiency have been limited. There are many causes for this, which include
the complex nature of the reforms, limited accountability, and a lack of transparency in SOE
management. As in the civil service, the stubbornly low level of efficiency in SOEs is partly
due to the absence of any performance indicators with which to monitor outcomes, which
gives managers no incentives to ensure that the SOE performs well or to be accountable for its
lack of success. As a result, SOEs and parastatals continue to require significant grants and
transfers from the budget to the tune of around Rs 8 billion in December 2010 (3 percent of
GDP). They also contribute significantly to public sector debt, in the amount of Rs 20.7
billion or 6.4 percent of GDP in 2011, with around two-thirds of this debt being guaranteed by
the government (Table 4).
119.  The government now intends to strengthen the financial position of the largest
SOEs while increasing its focus on improving service delivery. The SOEs' growing
32 These efforts include, for instance, introducing attrition programs in the agricultural sector, using voluntary
departure and early retirement schemes, or consolidating public institutions (for example, closing the
Development Works Corporation or centralizing all revenue departments under the Mauritius Revenue
Authority).
42


﻿revenues have been accompanied by increasing operating budgets that have undermined the
financial sustainability of some large SOEs. Public enterprises and parastatals that provide
critical services such as water urgently need to become more efficient or risk impeding further
development.33 The government has initiated a plan to improve the overall financial position
of SOEs. First, it is divesting from those parastatals about which there is a consensus within
the government that they do not address any identified market failure or provide any public
goods. These are likely to include casinos and some non-strategic commercial joint ventures.
Second, the government aims to shift a larger share of the cost of the services provided by
these parastatals to their final users, for example, in the water and public transport sectors.
Table 4: Public Enterprise Debt (Rs millions unless otherwise indicated)
Jun     Jun      Jun     Dec     Dec     Dec      Dec     Dec
2005    2006     2007    2008    2009    2010     2011   2012*
Domestic - Guaranteed        6,535   9,010   6,850   6,794    6,842   5,816   4,423   4,519
Domestic - Non-guaranteed    2,519   3,150   3,817   6,666    8,670   5,823   5,106   6,611
External - Guaranteed        8,032   8,304   7,419   5,620    4,605   5,053   8,809   8,904
External - Non-guaranteed    5,326   4,635   3,601   2,542    5,026   3,638   2,364    1,984
Public Enterprise Debt      22,412  25,099  21,687  21,622   25,143  20,330  20,702  22,018
as percentage of GDP    12.1%    12.5%    9.5%    7.9%    8.9%     6.8%    6.4%    6.4%
Source: Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Note: * Provisional Figures for December 2012 posted on MOFED Website
120.   In 2010, the government established the Office of Public Sector Governance
(OPSG) under the aegis of the Prime Minister's Office to provide leadership,
coordination, and cohesion to the implementation and monitoring of the SOE reform
initiative. As part of the first operation in this DPL series, the mandate of the OPSG was
reinforced to: (i) monitor the overall performance of public enterprises; (ii) supervise the
implementation of the agreed public enterprise improvement program, especially when targets
were not being met; (iii) support ministries and parastatals in implementing performance-
enhancing reforms; and (iv) develop the capacity to conduct in-depth supervision of SOEs
using monitoring reports. Within this new institutional and legal framework, the World Bank
has supported the OPSG in identifying areas where the corporate governance of SOEs has
improved, such as the implementation of audit committees and improved internal controls. It
has also supported the OPSG as it has adopted improved systems for performance monitoring
and as it has reformed specific SOEs.
33 Current inefficiencies manifest themselves in several ways. Some services (such as Internet access) are more
expensive in Mauritius than in its competitor countries, there are technical inefficiencies (for example, 50
percent of water is lost from the system), and coverage of some public services remains low (for example, only
25 percent of the population is connected to public sewage networks). One major problem is distortionary tariffs
(such as water tariffs), which are often adopted to meet social goals rather than to cover long-term costs. This
raises concerns about whether Mauritius can afford the investment and maintenance required to ensure the long-
term sustainability of its infrastructure.
43


﻿121.  The OPSG recently launched the Parastatals Information Management System
(PIMS) and is now implementing a comprehensive performance monitoring framework
to improve corporate governance. PIMS will facilitate the collection and standardization of
financial and technical data from SOEs. Monitoring will help to identify trends and flag
weaknesses, enable mid-course corrections, and provide the basis for putting in place
incentives for improvement. The aim of PIMS is to make the monitoring of SOE data more
efficient and timely. PIMS will be used in conjunction with the performance monitoring
guidelines that the OPSG is developing. This will require the OPSG to confer with the
shareholders and boards of directors of each SOE at the beginning of each year to adjust the
company's strategy and objectives for the year ahead and to translate these into a set of
financial and non-financial performance indicators.
122.  For the performance-monitoring framework to be effective, it is essential that
SOEs operate within an appropriate corporate planning framework in the form of an
agreement between its board and the government (represented by both the OPSG and
the relevant ministry). The documents that each SOE will need to prepare as part of its
corporate planning are: (i) a corporate objective statement, which is a public document
(ideally disclosed in the SOE's annual report) agreed to by the board and the parent ministry
that spells out its mission, objectives, core business, strategic direction, and key performance
indicators (KPIs); (ii) a corporate plan, internal to the company and provided to the OPSG,
that consists of a comprehensive rolling three-year performance plan; and (iii) a business plan,
which is a detailed action plan for the first financial year of the corporate plan that lays out the
actions and strategies that will be needed to achieve the SOE's objectives, as well as quarterly
or yearly benchmarks for the financial statements and KPI targets for each quarter or year (as
appropriate). The OPSG will work closely with SOE managers to help them to develop a set
of financial and non-financial indicators to measure the company's success in reaching its
strategic goals. The World Bank has provided capacity-building support to the OPSG to build
its performance monitoring function.
123.  The OPSG is also supporting efforts by the SOEs to improve their internal
controls, including the creation of audit committees and the implementation of the
recommendations of external audit reports. It will be essential to improve internal controls
and thus increase the availability of accurate and timely financial statements in order to
monitor SOE performance. Enhancing reporting and disclosure will help to build an
environment characterized by risk management, accountability, integrity, and efficiency that
will decrease the scope for negligence and fraud. Currently, internal control systems in most
SOEs are weak. Many SOEs lack adequate internal auditing functions or audit committees,
both of which are essential for internal control. Internal auditors are often tightly controlled by
management and thus lack the necessary independence and objectivity to oversee
transactions, which also hampers the oversight role that is supposed to be played by the
Board. The OPSG has highlighted the fact that, for audit committees to be effective, their
members must have the appropriate financial expertise and understanding of the SOE's
business. While ideally the audit committee, and in particular the committee chairperson,
should be comprised of independent directors in order to guarantee independence and
objectivity, at a minimum they should at least be non-executive directors. Along with the
establishment of the audit committee, SOEs need a system of internal controls that includes a
risk management function and ensures that the internal audit team  is fully staffed,
44


﻿appropriately trained, and adequately resourced. The Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Audit)
Act requires all SOEs to be audited by the Director of Audit or by a registered and licensed
auditor. The auditor should be appointed by the Board and approved by the appropriate
minister. Strengthened audit committees will help SOE managers to follow up on the findings
of both internal and external audits and to strengthen internal controls.
124.  The OPSG prepared plans for reforming underperforming SOEs and presented
them to the Cabinet for endorsement. The OPSG aimed to demonstrate to all parties
(shareholders, managers, the Board, employees, and the public) how each would benefit from
the governance reforms that it proposes. All of these stakeholders had to be persuaded of the
need for public scrutiny and accountability and for drastic changes in the way in which SOEs
are managed and monitored. Therefore, to maximize its chances of success, the OPSG
decided to restructure only two SOEs in 2012 and learn lessons from this experience that can
be applied to subsequent restructurings. This is in line with the objectives of the current DPL
and is also aligned with the requirements for the EU budget support for 2012, which specifies
two pilot SOEs to be restructured in 2012. Furthermore, as part of the EU budget support, the
Government of Mauritius has committed to restructuring five more parastatals in 2013 and an
additional four parastatals in 2014. There is ongoing dialogue between the EU and the
Government of Mauritius for the final list of parastatals to restructure, with a particular focus
on those that cannot meet their financial obligations towards the government because they are
in financial distress.
125.  The OPSG's restructuring plans include operational, financial, and governance
improvements that key parties - including shareholding ministries and other officials - agree
are warranted. The proposed operation provides support for the restructuring of the following
two companies in 2012: (i) the National Transport Corporation and (ii) the Business Parks of
Mauritius Ltd.
126.  The National Transport Corporation (NTC) is the country's primary operator of
buses. The company has suffered mounting losses as a result of external factors such as high
fuel and internal inefficiencies including the high maintenance costs of its aging fleet and
labor costs. To return to profitability, the company proposed to acquire new buses, to
implement a "smart card" cashless payment system for passengers, to increase rates, and to
reduce labor costs as conductors will no longer be needed as a result of the use of smart cards.
The OPSG has helped NTC management to develop a restructuring plan (including the
reorganization of the company under the Company Act), the details of which have been
endorsed by the Ministry of Public Infrastructure, National Development Unit, Land
Transport, and Shipping and by the Cabinet. Government took note of the proposals made in
respect of the reorganization of NTC.
127.  The 2011 audited accounts show that the revenue of the NTC was Rs 1 billion in that
year while its accumulated losses amounted to Rs 402 million. The non-current liabilities of
the company totaled Rs 941 million. For 2013, the NTC is forecast to have total income of Rs
1,294 million and a negative cash flow of Rs 88 million, with forecasts of Rs 102 million and
Rs 114 million for 2014 and 2015 respectively, as indicated in Table 5. The number of its
workforce is around 2,200, with almost 95 percent being covered by private sector labor
regulations and the rest considered as civil servants. The implementation of the plan has
started with the sale of the NTC's new headquarters in October 2012. The restructuring plan
45


﻿is expected to be implemented over the next three years and will require additional funding
from the government of around Rs 570 million, mostly to renovate the aging bus fleet. It also
includes a redeployment or early retirement program for civil servants and a comprehensive
plan for the rightsizing of its workforce after the implementation of the smart card. As a result
of the restructuring plan, the NTC is expected to return to profitability and positive cash flow,
as can also be seen in Table 5.
Table 5: The National Transport Corporation:
Projected Cash Flows and Profits (Rs millions)
2011   2012   2013   2014    2015   2016
Net cash flows - no restructuring  75.9  96.8  -88.4 -101.7 -114.3 -114.8
Net cash flows - with restructuring  75.9  102.7  -15.2  -49.6  16.9  58.3
Profit - with restructuring      75.2   19.7  -41.7  -45.0   45.2  152.4
Source: Government of Mauritius
128.   The Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd (BPML) has, through its subsidiary Cyber
Properties Investment Ltd, invested in the construction of two cyber towers costing over Rs 2
billion, financed mainly through debt. It has faced financial difficulties ever since its
incorporation in 2001 as a result of its indebted and because the low occupancy rate of its
business parks did not generate enough revenue to cover its operational and financial
expenses. While in recent years the business has recovered, the company is still burdened by
extensive debts. Currently, its loans in arrears amount to Rs 600 million. The business plan
adopted shows that, after debt restructuring, the company expects to be able to pay off its loan
arrears starting in 2013 and to begin to produce positive results (Table 6).
Table 6: Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd:
Projected Revenue, Expenses, and Profits (Rs Millions)
2013      2014     2015      2016
Total Revenue                                      336      346       357       368
Total Expenses in. Depreciation & Finance Cost   196.3      194      191.8      191
Net Profit                                       139.7     152.0     165.2    177.0
Return on Equity                                  12%       14%       15%      16%
Source: Government of Mauritius
129.   The proposed prior action for DPL 2 has been enhanced compared to the
indicative trigger proposed in DPL 1. Although the indicative trigger under DPL 1 required
that reform plans should be prepared for six SOEs, the Bank considers approval of the two
restructuring plans reasonable given the importance of these first restructurings in
engendering political support for SOE reform and for demonstrating the importance of
restructuring other SOEs. In addition, while the proposed DPL 2 trigger presented in DPL 1
called for the preparation of restructuring plans, the trigger proposed herein calls for the
approval of the plans by the Cabinet. Finally, the trigger has been aligned with that of the
EU's budget support operation, which is currently being prepared. The OPSG has also
produced a monitoring report on the overall performance of SOEs using the most recent
financial data available.
46


﻿Prior Action for DPL 2: The Cabinet has endorsed the implementation of the restructuring
plans for the National Transport Corporation and Business Park Mauritius Limited. The
Office of Public Sector Governance also provided a report on State Owned Enterprises sector
performance.
VI. OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION
A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT
130.     Mauritius has a low rate of poverty, whether measured in relative or absolute
terms. In 2006/07, 8.7 percent of the population was in relative poverty, which was
equivalent to 106,000 people. Approximately 1.0 percent of the population or 12,000 people
live on less than US$1 per day. Inequality in Mauritius, as measured by the Gini coefficient, is
low (0.388) compared with other countries in Africa. This reflects the fact that Mauritius has
traditionally had a balanced economic development model that favors equality and is a
country with a well-developed social welfare system. However, the most vulnerable segments
of the population would be most affected by the ongoing increase in food prices because food
and beverage expenditures represent around 50 percent of the total expenditure of the two
lowest quintiles of the population, although the government has programs aimed at mitigating
this impact.34
131.    The proposed DPL series is expected to reduce poverty in the following three
ways: (i) social protection programs will become more effective at protecting the poor and
helping them to rise out of poverty; (ii) widening access to education will help the most
vulnerable to find higher-skilled, better paying jobs in the labor market; and (iii) streamlining
non-tariff barriers (NTBs) will help to create jobs as NTBs disproportionally affect SMEs
(which are major creators of employment in Mauritius) because they lack the financial means
to mitigate their cost. The progress that has been made in implementing the reforms supported
by the first operation in this DPL series would suggest that these benefits can be realized.
132.   Social protection programs will be more effective in protecting and supporting
the poor. The programs under the NEF have played a role in mitigating the transitional
impact of previous reforms. The Placement and Training Program was the most significant in
this regard, with over 6,000 workers having found jobs through this program by 2009.
However, in the sectors that benefitted from the program, 80 percent of all of the jobs created
were in the ICT sector. As part of the proposed reform of the NEF, the government is
reviewing the focus and targeting of the Placement and Training Program to ensure that it is
effectively serving those with less education, that it is a net creator of jobs, and that it is
rigorously evaluated to ensure that it provides value for money. Moreover, the re-engineering
of NEF programming, particularly those programs targeted to households in the 229 pockets
of poverty, will ensure that much more effective services are provided to those vulnerable
households. The adoption of the SRM will similarly lead to strengthened case management at
34 The State Trade Corporation (STC), a parastatal in charge of the import of fuel, also subsidizes imports of
flour and rice (13 percent of all rice consumed in Mauritius), which are major staples for poorer households. In
2011, the combined subsidies represented around Rs 700 million (around US$23 million or 0.2 percent of GDP)
and could be further increased by the STC if needed.
47


﻿the household level and to more integration of the services targeted to the poor. Given the
concerns noted above about unemployment trends, the Mauritian safety net must be working
effectively if increased levels of poverty are to be avoided.
133.  Reforms to pre-vocational education will largely benefit the poor. The DPL is also
supporting reforms in the education sector. The government plans to significantly upgrade the
pre-vocational technical education stream so that this becomes a meaningful activity that can
either help students to move forward in their formal education or to acquire the skills and
qualifications that will help them to enter the job market. These reforms also aim to reduce the
high dropout rate from pre-vocational education, which is 24 percent of those who enroll. The
pre-vocational stream currently caters to those who have failed their CPE exams, and, given
that failure rates for CPE are much higher among the poorest than among other income
groups, this reform will be key to improving education and labor market outcomes for this
group. In addition, improving the performance of the pre-vocational stream is expected to
contribute to reducing gender bias by improving learning outcomes for boys.
134.  Simplifying barriers to trade will further expand opportunities to create jobs.
Trade regulatory and administrative costs are a bigger burden for SMEs than for large
enterprises. Therefore, streamlining non-tariff measures (NTMs) and eliminating non-tariff
barriers (NTBs) are both expected to have a positive impact on SMEs, which will in turn
translate into additional employment. This effect became evident after the reforms introduced
in 2006, which created a more level playing field between large companies and SMEs,
bolstered economic competitiveness, and promoted diversification that translated into strong
job creation in the services sector. As a result, the unemployment rate between 2005 and 2008
declined, especially for women.
135.  The capacity of Statistics Mauritius to monitor poverty in Mauritius has been
strengthened in recent years. Statistics Mauritius has developed a poverty map depicting the
poverty rate in each of the 145 administrative regions of the country, which is based on data
from the Household Budget Surveys (HBS) and the 2000 Housing and Population Census
(HPC). Furthermore, Statistics Mauritius fields an annual multi-purpose survey that can be
used to monitor multiple dimensions of poverty including access to basic services, labor
market participation, and income poverty. In addition, Statistics Mauritius has launched a new
survey, the Survey of Living Conditions, to measure absolute poverty. Also, with support
from the UNDP, it is updating measures of absolute poverty. The upcoming release of the
data from the latest Household Budget Survey in 2013 will be a powerful new source of
information for assessing Mauritius' progress in reducing poverty, especially when analyzed
in conjunction with the 2011 national census data. The Bank intends to work with Statistics
Mauritius in analyzing the 2013 HBS data.
136.  The Social Register of Mauritius (SRM) will further strengthen the capacity of
the government to monitor poverty. The government also plans to use the SRM to improve
poverty monitoring within programs, starting with Social Aid and programs under the NEF
but over time incorporating additional programs into this integrated database.
48


﻿B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
137.  None of the reforms supported by the DPL series are likely to have a direct effect
on the environment, natural resources, or forestry. The reforms affecting SOEs and
parastatals will focus on increasing transparency and monitoring the management of public
companies but will have no direct relationship with investments in these areas. Historically,
the record of environmental management in Mauritius, though not perfect, has been relatively
good.35 Furthermore, all development partners recognize the strategic importance of
environmental protection, and the AFD, the UNDP, and the EU are all actively providing
technical support to Mauritius in this area.
C. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION
138.  The government and the World Bank will meet twice a year to review the
progress of the DPL program and to prepare a joint report. MoFED will be responsible
for coordinating the supervision and monitoring of the reform program supported by the
proposed DPL 2. MoFED will liaise with the appropriate staff in the ministries, departments,
and agencies involved. The Bank will carry out periodic monitoring and conduct a dialogue
with relevant line ministries and other stakeholders involved in the implementation of the
reforms through field missions and through staff based at the Bank's country office. MoFED,
as the primary counterpart agency of the operation, will be responsible for providing the Bank
with the information required to monitor outcomes in the policy matrix (Annex 1) and for
preparing an implementation report every six months to be discussed with the World Bank.
D. FIDUCIARY ASPECTS
Public Financial Management System and Fiduciary Issues
139.  Mauritius has a satisfactory financial management system. The country's fiduciary
framework is adequate to support the proceeds of the credit as concluded by the 2010 PEFA
report, which noted that: (i) PFM performance had improved since the 2007 PEFA assessment
and (ii) 90 percent of all loans and grants received by the government in 2009 were managed
using government systems with a few exceptions for loans and grants from China and India.
As summarized in paragraph 67, since the publication of the PEFA assessment, the
government has designed and has been implementing a PFM Action Plan 2011-13 aimed at
further strengthening PFM systems.
140.  External auditors have reported no concerns with the audited financial
statements of the Bank of Mauritius. The IMF has not undertaken a safeguard assessment
on the Bank of Mauritius, but the independent external auditors issued an unqualified audit
report on June 30, 2012, and the audited financial statements of the Bank of Mauritius are
published on its website.
3 See EU "Mauritius Country Strategy Paper 2008-2013," Annex 3, Executive Summary of the Country
Environmental Profile.
49


﻿Funds Flow Arrangements
141.  The loan disbursement will follow the World Bank's procedures for development
policy lending. The loan will be disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness. The loan
proceeds from the Bank will be credited to an account that is part of the country's official
foreign exchange reserves at the Bank of Mauritius. The rupee equivalent of the loan proceeds
will be reflected in the budget to finance budgeted expenditures. The government will provide
a letter to the World Bank within 30 days of receiving the loan proceeds written by the
Accountant-General confirming that: (i) the accounts used to deposit the loan proceeds are
part of the country's official foreign exchange reserves and (ii) the rupee equivalent of the
loan proceeds has been reflected in the budget and in the government's accounts on the date
reflected. The loan proceeds shall not be used to finance excluded expenditures as defined in
Section 2 of the Appendix in the loan agreement. If any portion of the loan is used to finance
ineligible expenditures as so defined, the Bank will require the government to promptly
refund the amount upon notice.
Accounting
142.  The accounting of the loan proceeds will be the responsibility of the Accountant-
General at the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED). Government
procedures will be followed to administer and account for the loan proceeds and related
payments. Since the control environment is considered to be adequate, no additional fiduciary
requirements shall apply.
E. RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION
143.  The implementation of the proposed reform program entails a number of risks:
(i) the challenge of maintaining macroeconomic stability in the face of highly uncertain global
developments; (ii) a slowdown in the momentum of reforms; and (iii) limited institutional
capacity within the sector ministries to lead and implement the reforms.
144.  The first risk is that macroeconomic stability may be affected given the uncertain
global economic climate, particularly in the European economies to which Mauritius
remains substantially exposed. These global economic uncertainties represent a significant
threat to a small open economy such as Mauritius. While the impact of the global economic
slowdown has been partially contained so far and GDP growth was around 3.4 percent in
2012, a more protracted and extended slowdown could further deteriorate Mauritius'
economic prospects primarily on two fronts - the fiscal position and the current account
deficit. Slower global economic growth is already depressing domestic growth and tax
revenues, thus making it more difficult to finance the government's priorities. Despite this
difficult environment, the government is consolidating the fiscal deficit and reducing public
debt. Current account deficits, although high, have been adequately financed, mostly by high
FDI and inflows to the financial sector. However, this could quickly reverse if international
financial markets were to deteriorate. Finally, the concentration of the country's exports on a
few markets (Europe) and products (tourism and textiles) and its large share of imported
commodities could further increase the current account deficit.
50


﻿145.  In 2012, the economy proved its resilience, and the government had the means to
cope with external economic uncertainties, but a firm commitment will be needed to rein
in public expenditure if a more substantial slowdown materializes. Overall, the Mauritian
economy proved its resilience in 2012 with 3.4 percent GDP growth despite constraints to
growth on the external front and a less expansionary fiscal policy than was expected.
Furthermore, on the external front, the increasing levels of foreign exchange reserves
(projected to be at six months of imports in the medium term) are an additional buffer against
a potential deterioration in the balance of payments. Mauritius' floating exchange rate can
also facilitate the correction of external imbalances in the medium term. The recent trend
towards reorienting exports towards new markets (particularly Africa) will also help. On the
fiscal front, the slowdown in the growth of public revenues is being more than compensated
for by the containment of public expenditure, with a reduction of the fiscal deficit and public
debt. If revenues should dip, this would make it necessary to accelerate efficiency gains in the
public sector and to use the remaining balance in the National Resilience Fund that was
created in 2011. The government is also extending the maturity of the public debt, further
reducing roll-over risks as the majority of debt is domestic and there is currently excess
liquidity in domestic capital markets.
146.  The second risk is that potential political constraints can affect the pace of the
reform program at a time when the need is high. There are few champions for strong
reforms, and demand for reform by other stakeholders is limited. This reflects the fact that
many of these new reforms will have redistributive effects, meaning that they sometimes
eliminate the rents, subsidies, and privileges of certain groups with vested interests. The
government may find it difficult to overcome these groups, some of which are well-organized
and influential. This is particularly true since many of the reforms may only pay dividends in
the medium term while their costs will be evident in the short term. There is no time for
complacency when considering the global economic uncertainties and the structural
constraints to economic growth and poverty reduction that are becoming binding.
147.  The approach taken in this DPL series aims to mitigate this risk by supporting
reforms for which a consensus exists, helping to put in place the building blocks to
expedite the reform program over the medium term. The DPL takes a strategically
incremental approach that aims to produce results in the short term that can create demand
and momentum for further bolder reforms. This DPL series takes a pragmatic approach by
supporting reforms that are backed by a broad consensus and that will yield some immediate
benefits (for example, in trade and social protection), while laying the necessary foundations
required to accelerate other reforms in the future. The DPL series aims to do this by being
selective and by supporting policy actions that will create and strengthen: (i) public sector
management systems (such as the SRM, the PIMS, the HRMIS in the civil service, and the
trade portal) that can provide the government with the tools necessary to achieve efficiency
and transparency gains and define appropriate reform options and (ii) institutions that can
coordinate and consolidate reform initiatives (such as the National Empowerment Foundation,
the Office of Public Sector Governance, and the Business Facilitation Task Force).
Furthermore, the government's emphasis on strengthening the safety net, primarily by
enhancing NEF programs, will provide the most vulnerable with immediate support, thus
reinforcing the government's objective to develop more balanced economic growth and
building the momentum for additional reforms.
51


﻿148.   The third risk is that institutional constraints, including limited capacity in sector
ministries, might make it more difficult to effectively design, implement, and monitor
the reforms. These institutional constraints and the potential political constraints can limit the
effectiveness and progress of reforms. While previous reforms were led and coordinated by
MoFED, the current reforms are being overseen in most cases by the sector ministries. This
involves a wider range of stakeholders, which requires additional effort to build consensus
around the reform agenda. However, most sector ministries, particularly those that are newly
created, lack the institutional capacity to build this consensus or to design and implement
these sector reforms. In addition, after a period of ambitious reforms, some stakeholders both
within and outside government are feeling a certain reform fatigue and a reluctance to change.
149.   The Bank is helping the government to mitigate this risk by involving specialized
Bank staff in the DPL dialogue on selected areas and by encouraging a public debate by
publishing articles and technical notes. Additionally, the DPL itself is a catalyst between
the different ministries involved in the reform program, thereby enhancing coordination. Also,
the Bank's portfolio in Mauritius is designed to strengthen capacity in a way that is tailored to
the needs of a middle-income country. First, this is being achieved through analytical work
coordinated with other development partners in order to leverage limited resources to support
selected capacity building in priority areas. Second, the portfolio includes strategic technical
assistance on selected governance areas, such as on capacity strengthening in anti-corruption.
Furthermore, a services agreement for Reimbursable Technical Assistance (RTA) signed by
the Bank and the government is available to further strengthen institutional capacity in line
ministries where needed. Overall, however, the major challenge in the implementation of the
reform program is the limited capacity of the sector ministries to coordinate multiple
stakeholders, which will only be surmounted by additional capacity building.
52


﻿ANNEX 1: OPERATION POLICY MATRIX
Project Development Objective: To support improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the government to implement the
following three reform pillars: (i) strengthening services to support and empower the most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and processes; and (iii)
improving human resource management in the civil service and the monitoring ofSOE performance.
Medium-term                                      Policy Actions                                                            Expected Results
Baseline                       -Responsible
Objectives                               DPL 1                            DPL 2              Indicators        (2011)      2012       2013       Entity
(prior actions 2012)             (prior actions 2013)
Pillar I: Strengthening Services to Support and Empower The Most Vulnerable
a. Social Protection
Making the social safety  The issuance of a new organizational and staffing  The Ministry of Social  Number of people  912  1,000     1,200    NEF/MSIEE
net a more effective,  chart for NEF which shall have been approved by  Integration and  with less than a
efficient, and sustainable  MoSIEE, reflecting the new institutional structure  Economic  secondary school
system that provides a  of NEF, and with separate departments for a)  Empowerment        certificate (SC)
coherent set of safety net  child and family development, b) community  approves a Strategic  placed in Placement
services to empower the  empowerment, c) placement and training, and d)  Plan for the National  for Training
poor and vulnerable to  monitoring and evaluation.                 Empowerment
rise out ofpoverty.                                                Foundation.
Cabinet approval of a memorandum giving    New social protection  Number of              0         10,000     13,000    MoSS/NEF
details of a proposal and action plan for the  programs use the Social  households in the
establishment of SRM.                       Registry of Mauritius  SRM
for identifying
beneficiaries and the
Ministry of Social
Integration and
Economic
Empowerment adopts a
timetable for
incorporating existing
National Empowerment
Foundation programs
into the Social Registry
of Mauritius.
53


﻿Medium-term                                        Policy Actions                                                              Expected Results
.Baseline                                                                                                           -Responsible
Objectives                                 DPL 1                             DPL 2               Indicators        (2011)      2012        2013        Entity
(prior actions 2012)              (prior actions 2013)
b. Education
Improving learning      Cabinet approval of a concept paper for       The Ministry of        Percentage of        72.2%        73.2%      74.2%       MoEHR
outcomes and ensuring   prevocational education reform, giving details of  Education and Human  students entering
access to good quality  proposed changes to existing learning and    Resources implements   Year 1 and
general secondary       institutional arrangements, including extension of  new curricula for pre-  completing the pre-
education for all,      prevocational education to four years, revision of  vocational education,  vocational education
especially the most     curricula, introduction of teaching and learning  including one for the  cycle
disadvantaged.          methods to promote retention, and acquisition of  training of trainers.
core basic skills and technical competencies.
Pillar II: Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes
Making the regulatory   Establishment of a joint public-private Business  The Cabinet approves  Number of           n/a         10          30        MoFED
framework more           Facilitation Task Force, giving it a mandate to  elimination of permits  regulations on which
transparent and more    review existing systems and processes, and   issued by the Ministry  a decision is taken
business friendly, and  streamline regulations, governing trade and  of Industry, Commerce   after review
eliminating             investments, with a view to removing bottlenecks  and Consumer
administrative          and creating a business-friendly environment.  Protection for six
bottlenecks to enhance                                               products to further
competitiveness.                                                     facilitate trade in the
country.
Cabinet approval of a memorandum, giving     Adoption by the        Number of                0                     All         MFA
details of proposed modalities and action plan for  Steering Committee for  ministries involved
the establishment of a comprehensive and up-to-  Development and    in issuing
date trade portal.                           Implementation of the  certificates/
single window of a     permits/clearances
functional model for the  connected with the
single window.         national single
window
54


﻿Medium-term                                        Policy Actions                                                                Expected Results
Baseline                           Responsible
Objectives                                 DPL 1                              DPL 2               Indicators        (2011)       2012        2013        Entity
(prior actions 2012)               (prior actions 2013)
Development by MoFED of a draft policy paper  The government adopts  The amount of time    6 weeks     3 weeks     3 weeks      MRA -
on the proposed establishment within its customs  a prescribed schedule of  needed to settle the                              Department
department of an appropriate internal appeals  administrative penalties  Customs                                              of Customs
mechanism that complies with the requirements  for Customs,          administrative
of the Kyoto Convention, giving details of the                       penalty amount
proposed legal and institutional framework, and
operating guidelines and procedures, governing
such a mechanism.
Pillar III: Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service & Monitoring of SOE Performance
____________________a. Civil Service
Improved human           Submission to Cabinet, by MSCAR, of an       Ministry of Civil       Gradual reduction of  Processing  Processing  Processing  MCSAR
resource management in  information paper giving details of plans to  Service and             processing time     time: 6     time        time
the public service by    streamline Schemes of Service and expedite the  Administrative Reforms  relating to the  months      reduced     reduced
streamlining procedures  process of review, modification and consolidation  appoints a firm to  prescription of               from 6      from 5
and processes relating to  of such Schemes of Service, based on adequate  develop a Human     schemes of service              months to   months to
the prescription of      consultations with civil service unions and other  Resources Management  and in the number of        5 months    4 months.
schemes ofservices and   stakeholders, and reflecting the outcome of such  Information System at  schemes of service.
the Human Resources     consultations.                                five pilot sites and                        Number                  Consolida
management information                                                adopts revised                               of                     tion of
system                                                                procedures to reduce                         schemes    Consolidat  schemes
the time required to                        of service  ion of      of service
amend scheme of                             above       schemes     extended
service from six months                     2,500       of service  to other
to four months.                                         piloted in  sectors of
MCSAR       the civil
service
resourcemanagement in    nfob. State-owned Enterprises
55


﻿Medium-term                                        Policy Actions                                                                Expected Results
.Baseline                                                                                                              Responsible
Objectives                                 DPL 1                              DPL 2               Indicators        (2011)       2012        2013        Entity
(prior actions 2012)               (prior actions 2013)
Improving the            Cabinet approval of a memorandum, giving     The Cabinet has         Number of SOEs           0           5          25      OPSG
monitoring ofSOE         details of the revised mandate of OPSG to a)  endorsed the           included in the
performance and reform   monitor the overall performance of SOEs; b)  implementation of the   annual performance
progress.                prepare quarterly reports; c) support line    restructuring plans for  report prepared by
ministries in the preparation and implementation  the National Transport  the OPSG and
of performance improvement plans; and d)      Corporation and        published on the
supervise the pace of SOE reforms as approved  Business Park         OPSG website
by Cabinet, reporting back to Cabinet with    Mauritius Limited. The
proposals for corrective measures as needed.  Office of Public Sector
Governance also
provided a report on
State Owned
Enterprises sector
performance.
Notes: a/ The baseline value for this results indicator refers to 2010
56


﻿Annex 2: Letter of Development Policy
Office of the Vice-Prinne Minister, Minister of Finance
& Economic Development
ornentHou~se,Po,1Leas, RepubiwofMaritius
Tel (230) 2012431 Fax :230) 213 6450
mRFfrtkm0  ssEmai:                             muil@mnailgov.mu
In epyple~asegve   _C    lä924B                       Date: 15pebruar2013
Mrs HaeyBrid
CoiuntryDrector f-rManritis
AicaRgmo,WorkiBank
ReeAndrialindy
HltePotate :44140
Arntanarmivo uMaanrnr
DearMadam
Secud Privata Sectur Compellveness Developme.t Pelky Lmon and Seccnd Public Seder
Development Polkyltem-an-arltlslawttaien tO Serroeer to negotte
1 thank you for inviting the Government of Mauritius tonegotiate for the proposed Seconed
Private Se ntoCaietitiveness Development Policyloan jutheamiount 0rUS$ 15mTiRlion and the
proposed Serond Public Sector Development Polic Iäan In the amunt af US 20 milion and I
would like to conirm that Februry 20. 2013 Ls convenient for the Maurdan Delegation to
negotiate te Publc Setorand Pivate Secer LeveopmentPoy hans.
We haenoted the mntent of the dihssions as partoftle negotiation. The Mauritian
Delegtion wil le headed by Mr G. ]usan, Acing D~iror and be vll sign the Minuste of
Negoiatlersoene goiations haeconcluded Inthe ame of theltepulicofMaordtus. Te ist of
the Maritian NegotatingTeam isattached
The Mauritian authoddes took not of the Bank Policy on Access to Informaion and
conrm  that we have no objecln to the Bank publdy reksing the Program Doeuments for bott
Development Poly Loans and the Letter of Development Policy upon disihuton to dhe Banks
eoardofExecutiveDfer.tors.
We look fonard to the negotiations, and would like to thank you and your team for their
atanceingettings to thissage in thelan process.
YcurSncerely,
Wkje-P,rmeMinister, Minister fl anad
Economic Develhpmeat
SCANNED
57


﻿Letter of Development Policy
Over the last seven years Mauritius has undergone a series of reforms, with the help of its
development partners, to maximise the country's potential to transform itself into a high-
income economy. These reforms were designed to enhance the country's competitiveness
and to put the economy on a higher growth trajectory whilst creating opportunities for the
most vulnerable groups through economic empowerment
Whilst the reforms undertaken helped build resilience by reducing macroeconomic
vulnerabilities and improving fiscal sustainability, challenges remain due to the continuing
diiculties being faced by the global economy.  Sustaining the quality and pace of
implementation of reforms is, therefore, vital to increase the economy's long-run growth
potential and to help reinvent itself in the face of adversity.
The 2013 Budget includes a number of measures to support the on-going reform programme,
namely, improving the business environment encouraging the adoption of technology,
modernising access to innovative public services and implementing an Africa strategy. New
impetus has been given to all sectors Including financial services, education, health, tourism,
entertainment and shopping, manufacturing and other export-oriented industries, agriculture
and fishing and ICT-BPO.
In spite of the downside risks and uncertainty prevailing worldwide, latest available
information indicate that GDP growth rate was 3.3 percent in 2012. This performance can be
attributed to pro-growth policies, sound macroeconomic management, improved public
sector governance, and ongoing reforms. Based on the current global economic outlook and
policy measures taken in the 2013 Programme Based Budgeting (PBB), the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development is forecasting a growth rate of 4 percent this year-
assuming recovery of our main trading partners coupled with diversification of markets and
higher implementation rate of budget measures, more specifically those related to public
infrastructure projects. Investment rate is likely to rise to around 23.8 percent this year and
is mainly driven by the public sector.
On the other hand, inflation reached 3.9% by the end of 2012, lower than the 6.5% recorded
in 2011. For this year, unemployment rate is likely to remain stable at8 percent with a higher
net job creation of around 5,100. Current account deficit will be around 10-11 percent of GDP
while the overall balance of payments would remain in surplus. 2012 was an exceptional year
for Mauritius whereby Foreign Direct Investment inflows is estimated to have reached some
Rs 12 billion , higher than Rs 9.5 billion in 2011. This is among the highest levels of FDI
recorded.
The implementation of the reform agenda will require the financial and technical support of
all the development partners, including the World Bank (WB), the European Union (EU), the
African Development Bank (ADB) and the Agence Frangaise de D6veloppement (AFD), the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The four pillars of the reform programme namely (1) improving public sector efficiency, (ii)
sharpening competitiveness, (iii) improving the Investment climate and (iv) widening the
1
58


﻿circle of opportunities, continue to underpin the country's growth strategy. Government
relies on the continued support of the Bank through Development Policy Loan (DPL)
operations as an important vehicle for supporting policy reform in Mauritius. While financing
is needed, Government values the policy dialogue and technical support from the World Bank.
In this context, the second DPL operations will help reinforce Governments medium term
reform programme. The Second Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan (PSP-
DPL) of US$20 million will focus primarily on the performance of the public sector while the
Second Private Sector Competitiveness Development Policy Loan (PSC-DPL) of US$15 million
will put emphasis on the competitiveness agenda. The combination of the reforms proposed
by these two complementary DPLs will help improve the country's competitiveness and
resilience and prepare the economy for rapid and inclusive economic growth.
This letter of development policy broadly outlines how current and prospective reforms will
consolidate and extend the gains In each of these areas.
A. Improving Public Sector Efficiency
Government is well aware of the need to exercise fiscal prudence in the wake of sustained
international economic crisis and has laid out measures to improve efficiency in the public
sector. Discounted Public Sector Debt as a percentage of GDP has continued its declining path
reaching 53.1 per cent GDP by end December 2012 while overall budgetary central
government deficit dropped to around 1.8% of GDP last year. Government is relentlessly
pursuing the objective of bringing public sector debt as a ratio of GDP to 50 percent by 2018.
National Audit Office will be reinforced to produce Interim audit for timely monitoring and the
Public Accounts Committee would be empowered to better bring public expenditure under
parliamentary controL  Public Procurement Act would be reviewed to expedite the
implementation of infrastructure projects while providing transparency, as all outcomes of
tender exercises will now be displayed as from Rs 5 m, well below the present threshold of Rs
15 m.
To ensure Government gets value for money out of its support to the use of Business
Development services (BDS) to serve economic growth, a robust system of Monitoring &
Evaluation is in the process of being established that focuses on improved results on verifiable
indicators, enhanced accountability and impact feedback learning mechanism.
Similarly, to help improve human resource management the Ministry of Civil Service and
Administrative Reforms (MCSAR) would pilot the establishment of the Human Resource
Management Information System in six organizations in 2013. The organisations concerned
are: (a) Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms; (b) Ministy of Information and
Communication Technology (including CIB, CISD);(c) Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (Headquarters only);(d) Ministry of Education and Human Resources (including
the 4 education zones); (e) Public Service Commission; and (f) Accountant General. Based on
the assessment of the pilot programme, improvement as well as extension to 10 Ministries
will be done in 2014 with full implementation scheduled for 2015. MCSAR is also working to
reduce Schemes of Service from more than 2,500 to around 2,375 in 2013 and further to
2
59


﻿around 2,156 by 2014 and to 1,918 by 2015. This will be also complemented with reforms to
reduce the time required to amend a scheme of service from six to four months in 2013 and
further to three months in 2015.
As concerns efficiency in public enterprises, Government has decided in 2012 to undertake
reforms on a number of state owned enterprises which are either loss making or have
accumulated significant amounts of debt and to implement a restructuring plan to generate,
on a cash basis, a 5% return on all new money injected in the selected enterprises. The
objectives of the reforms are to redress the general operational and financial deficiencies in
the business model of these public enterprises so as to improve their general economic
efficiency, service delivery and to impose financial discipline so as to minimise their fiscal
burden. Some 11 state owned enterprises (SOEs) have been targeted with total arrears and
loans amounting to Rs 2.1 bn. Three of the SOEs have already had their restructuring plans
approved: Business Parks of Mauritius Ltd, Cyber Properties Investment Ltd (CPIL) which is a
subsidiary of the BPML and the National Transport Corporation. The Office of Public Sector
Governance (OPSG) as part of its mandate will be reviewing the implementation process of
these restructuring plans. Also, as part of its monitoring function, the OPSG is in the process
of implementing a comprehensive performance monitoring framework to improve corporate
governance and has prepared a first review on SOB sector performance which captures the
latest financial information stemming from the Parastatals Information Management System
(PIMS) on 22 enterprises.
In the absence of effective planning, many middle-income countries get caught in a middle-
income country trap. The few that have escaped this trap have relied on an improved long-
term planning, process that is integrated into the budgeting framework  In this context,
Government is in the process of preparing a 10-year Economic and Social Transformation
Plan (ESTP) that will set out the long-term national goals and strategies which seek to achieve
a balance between growth, equity and sustainability objectives. The development of the ESTP
will strengthen the framework for medium-term strategic planning, at the level of line
ministries, and reinforce the benefits of Performance-Based Budgeting (PBB). Thus the ESTP
will provide the framework for ensuring coherence and coordination between ministry
strategies. Also the ESTP is complementary to the work of the Maurice Ile Durable (MID)
vision and establishes the important link with the budgeting exercise.
B. Sharpening Competitiveness of the Economy
The world is in transition and new challenges are emerging. Mauritius needs to seize this
opportunity to rise to the competitive challenges.
As a measure to improve access to credit especially for SMEs and start-ups use of movables
(such as plant and machinery, shares/securities, goodwill, intangibles and intellectual
property rights) as collateral for obtaining credit will be facilitated and promoted. A
committee of stakeholders is entrusted with the responsibility for making appropriate
recommendations on required legislative and other changes. It is expected that this revised
secured transactions framework will improve accessibility of businesses to credit in
Mauritius.
3
60


﻿A measure to improve the menu of credit facilities available to entrepreneurs in the micro,
small and medium bracket is to create the space for a Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
(MSME) bank to operate in the country. The restructuring process of the Development Bank
of Mauritius is underway with the aim of having a commercial Bank with a focus on SME
lending applying for a banking licence before the year end.
A Trade Portal is being developed to have swift access on line to all trade related processing
systems for tariff and non tariff measures. Once operational, the Trade Portal will facilitate
exchanges of information on regulatory policy among stakeholders, thus fostering public
participation and stakeholder involvement The Trade Portal is expected to be fully
operational by June 2013. The tender has already been awarded to a firm to develop and
implement this project In parallel, to fully integrate all trade-related processing systems, the
Government has started developing a 'Single Window' system. This Single Window system is
designed to provide on-line facility to submit applications for Import/export licenses and
permits and receive clearance from all government agencies. The development of the Single
Window system will enable traders to track the progress of their applications in real time and
facilitate data harmonization and standardization among Ministries and agencies. This will
reduce time for processing as well as related transaction costs. It will also assist in improving
our Ease of Doing Business and Logistics Performance and Competitiveness Indicators. The
Single Window system Is expected to be fully operational by December 2014 and Mauritius
would be amongst the first countries to implement such a system in the Eastern and Southern
Africa region.
The Joint Public Private Business Facilitation Task Force, set up with a broad mandate to
review existing systems and processes, and streamline regulations and facilitate investment
and trade for goods and services, made some recommendations. These were reviewed and
acted upon by an Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) set up in July 2012. Concrete results
Include the adoption of a silent agreement rule for processing building and land use permits at
the local authority level, in which permits are deemed to have been approved two weeks after
the effective date of receipt of the application if the local authority has not responded by then.
Government through the IMC continues to review existing regulations and processes with a
view to making the regulatory environment more business-friendly.
A predictable and competitive regulatory environment will be secured for the development of
ICT by allowing for additional players to operate on an equal footing including through
greater use of open access principles and the use of market mechanisms to avoid arbitrary
decisions for spectrum allocation. The adoption of these regulatory tools will allow the
regulator to achieve some of the competition goals as set out by the National Broadband
Policy.
C     Ehhancing the Investment Cimate
The performance of Mauritius in many International rankings is a source of pride and joy for
the entire nation including the ranking on the Mo Ibrahim Index of African Governance and
the World Bank Group's Doing Business Report These indicators should not be grounds for
complacency.
4
61


﻿Government will continue to facilitate the operations of businesses by enhancing the
regulatory environment to make it more transparent predictable, and business friendly.
Hence, the Business Facilitation Act will be revisited to adopt a 'whole of Government"
approach to investment facilitation and to remove bottlenecks and streamline procedures
when investing in Mauritius. In addition, the Board of Investment will set up a Business
Facilitation Unit whose main objective would be to support investors in the implementation of
large projects.
In line with the strategy of Government to further open up the economy, a number of
measures will be implemented. These measures include:
* increasing the options of non residents to acquire Immovable property;
* a new system to modernize land management which will reduce the processing time
for registering properties from 15 to 2 days; and
* the amendment to the visa regime which will have a favourable impact on FDI inflow
with an expected increase in transfer of technology, knowledge, talents and capital.
These measures will also facilitate movement of the business community to and from
Mauritius.
One of the Doing Business indicators In which Mauritius does not perform well is Resolving
Insolvency. A cost effective and efficient regime is, therefore, gradually being established to
allow businesses to exit the market or give the possibility of rehabilitating the businesses
without forcing them into bankruptcy. Thus, publication of rules of professional conduct for
insolvency practitioners will enhance transparency, fairness and professionalism amongst
insolvency practitioners, and ultimately will enable more effective processes under the law.
Credit bureaus play an important role in financial stability by helping control over-
indebtedness and are critical to expansion of credit for both individuals and small businesses.
All banking institutions, insurance, leasing companies and utility bodies have already joined
and are contributing data to the Mauritius Credit Information Bureau (MCIB). In addition,
recent amendments introduced in the Banking Act will enable data from utility bodies such as
the WMA, ICTA and telecommunication operators to be included in the MCIB. It is expected
that the coverage of the MCIB will increase to 90%.
In a bid to increase transparency and to make the regulatory environment more business-
friendly, government has adopted a prescribed schedule of administrative penalties to apply
at Customs to make the system more transparent simplified, predictable and efficient This
will increase transparency and predictability within the Customs department thus ensuring
the independence and fairness of the appeals process. It is expected that the time allowed to
operators to settle their Customs administrative penalty will be reduced from six to three
weeks.
.    Sharin Prosperity with AlI
Ownership by the people is a crucial element for the success and sustainability of the reform
programme Government Efforts are being pursued to exploring shortfalls in development to
5
62


﻿achieve a more inclusive society, as well as Improving the ranking of Mauritius on the human
development index
In 2012, Government implemented the Social Register of Mauritius (SRM). The objective of
the SRM is to collect more comprehensive Information about social protection clients. The
SRM will also allow Government to better track clients over time and evaluate progress
towards empowerment In June 2012, Cabinet determined that new social protection
programs should use the SRM and a number of new programs launched by the Government
since have started enrolment through this system. The SRM will be a key policy design and
planning tool to assess the needs of the potential beneficiaries and help them to access the
social aid programmes provided by Government The SRM will gradually become a powerful
tool to maximise policy effectiveness in the fight against poverty and for effective public
service delivery.
The National Empowerment Foundation, operating under the Ministry of Social Integration
and Economic Empowerment implements programmes designed to alleviate poverty and
empower vulnerable people through the intervention of non state actors. To improve
performance and its effectiveness a number of measures are being implemented. The NEF
has now completed its restructuring with an emphasis on case management at the household
level and a focus on monitoring and evaluation. A business process review is underway to
further improve service delivery. A strategic plan for the Ministry of Social Integration and
Economic Empowerment, to be implemented by the NEF, has also been approved. Capacity
building of NGOs will be carried out and the use of the Social Register of Mauritius (SRM) are
being actively promoted in all NEF programs.
Education and training are prime movers of our economic development objectives and crucial
to ensuring the sharing of prosperity with alL A number of measures will thus be
implemented. A daily hot meal will be provided in every ZEP school. Scholarships will be
given to children from vulnerable families if they cannot get a student loan and provided they
qualify through the SRM. To ensure access to information to the student population,
Government will distribute one tablet computer to students in Form IV. This will open
tremendous opportunities for digital learning, give access to a world of data stored online and
enable students to do research and to develop their skills. In addition, high speed fibre optic
cables will be extended to every secondary school and a subsidised price for entry level
broadband introduced.
CONCLUSION Way Forward
Successive economic and financial crises which are hitting the world and the main markets of
Mauritius may make it difficult to continue with the ambitious reforms that would allow
Mauritius to become a High Income Country within the next 10 years. We are thus requesting
the World Bank to support us in staying on course for the reforms and long-term goals whilst
addressing the short term priority of preventing a reversal of the important gains.
Government wishes to continue having recourse to the support of World Bank and
instruments like Development Policy Loans to help design and Implement pro-growth reforms
that will propel the economy on to a higher growth trajectory, attain full employment, and
6
63


﻿improve the quality of life of its population. Areas of future interventions can be property tax
reform, labour efficiency and productivity, diversification of markets and improvement in the
implementation of public sector capital projects. We would also appreciate if the World Bank
can offer assistance to ministries where institutional capacity to design and implement
reforms may be limited.
For Government of Mauritius
Charles Gabtan Xavier-Luc DUVAL. G.C.S.K
Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Economic Development
7
64


﻿ANNEX 3: IMF ASSESSMENT LETTER
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20431
CABLE ADDRESS
INTERFUND
January 24, 2013
Mr. Makhtar Diop
Vice President
Africa Region
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Diop:
I am writing to update you on the economic developments and outlook for Mauritius. Prudent
macroeconomic policy making since the 2008/09 financial crisis and the reforms implemented
over the past few years contributed to a solid performance of the Mauritian economy in 2012.
The challenge in 2013 will be to safeguard growth in a difficult external environment and to set
the foundation for future growth through increased public investment and structural reforms while
continuing fiscal consolidation to reduce economic vulnerabilities.
We welcome the Bank's initiative on two Development Policy Loans which should facilitate the
continued implementation of the next phase of structural reforms.
Please note that consent is being sought from the authorities regarding publication of the letter.
We will inform you of the authorities' decision as soon as it is obtained.
Sincerely yours,
Antoinette M. Sayh
Director
African Department
Attachment
65


﻿MAURiTIus-AsSESSMENT LETTER FOR THE WORLD BANK
January 24, 2013
1.     This note provides the IMF staffs assessment of Mauritius' macroeconomic conditions
and prospects.
Recent Economic Developments and Outlook
2.     The volatile external environment dampened domestic economic activity in 2012.
Growth is estimated to have slowed to 3'4 percent, driven by a slowdown in tourism and
manufacturing, while the real estate sector, financial intennediation and transport mid
telecommunications have sustained growth momentn. Despite this deceleration, the output gap
is estimated to be small (below  2 percent). Inflation remained broadly stable at 4 percent. Credit
to the private sector has continued its recovery over the year, with an estimated growth of
13 percent. On the external front, exports are estimated to have grown moderately (5 percent in
dollar terms), reflecting broadly unchanged tourist arrivals. FDI inflows are projected to decline
modestly. but remain around 2 percent of GDP and international reserves are projected to increase
somewhat. In June 2012, Moody's upgraded the country's credit rating to Baal.
3.     Macroeconomic policies were broadly accommodative in 2012. In line with staff
recommendations, the fiscal policy stance was not as expansionary as envisaged in the 2012
budget. The structural primary deficit excluding grants was broadly unchanged relative to 2011
(compared to a discretionary fiscal impulse of 1.5 percentage points projected in the last staff
report). The Bank of Mauritius (BOM) adopted an accommodative monetary policy stance for
most of the year. In March 2012, the BOM reduced the policy rate by 50 basis points to
4.9 percent given the deceleration in global growth. In the three subsequent Monetary Policy
Conuittee (MPC) meetings, the BOM maintained the policy rate at that level in light of
continued uncertainty in the global outlook. Since June 2012, the authorities started to intervene
more actively in foreign exchange markets to moderate exchange rate fluctuations and to build up
a buffer in international reserves. Reserves are generally adequate but given the characteristics of
the Mauritian economy, including exposure to natural disasters, some build-up appears justifiable.
4.     Economic growth is expected to pick-up, but the outlook for 2013 faces some
headwinds. Staff projects that real GDP growth in 2013 will continue to be slightly below
potential (with an output gap of about 1 percent) reflecting subdued demand from Mauritius' main
markets. In subsequent years, real GDP growth is expected to accelerate in line with potential
growth, estimated at around 412 percent. Inflation would stabilize at around 5 percent. Staff
projects the current account deficit to gradually narrow to around 7 percent ofGDP by 2018, in
part as a result of sustained fiscal adjustment and refonns improving external competitiveness
(including public enterprise reforis, infrastructure investment, streamlining of trade regulations,
66


﻿2
land law reform, among other areas). Mauritius' growth prospects depend heavily on the global
economy, especially on developments in Europe.
5.     Fiscal policy as planned for 2013 is broadly neutral and includes a modest
discretionary fiscal impulse. The fiscal policy stance is reasonable given the projected slow-
down in economic activity, although the small discretionary fiscal stimulus will likely have a
limited impact in a small open economy with a flexible exchange rate. From a medium-tenn
perspective, a fully neutral fiscal stance in 2013 might be preferable to smooth the projected
strong fiscal adjustment in 2014-15, which is aimed at building primary surpluses needed to
address external imbalances, reduce debt vulnerabilities and rebuild policy buffers.
6.     The current accommodative monetary policy stance is broadly appropriate, but
inflationary pressures may arise from wage increases in the private sector or higher fuel
prices. Staff currently forecasts inflation to marginally exceed the unannounced target of
5 percent. The current monetary policy framework of "hybrid inflation targeting" remains well-
suited for Mauritius-a small and open economy. Though broadly appropriate with current
inflation below the unannounced target of 5 percent, the authorities should stand ready to tighten
policy in response to inflation developments. There may also be a need to reduce excess liquidity
to align market driven interest rates more closely to the BOM's policy rate, particularly if
inflationary pressures emerge.
7.     Further fiscal consolidation over the medium-term and structural reforms would
facilitate external adjustment. Fiscal adjustment would contribute to addressing external
imbalances in a sustained mainer. The current flexible exchange rate regime has served Mauritius
well in terms of responding to external shocks. Efforts to improve competitiveness through
structural refonns are crucial to facilitate the reduction of the large current account deficit.
8.     The updated debt sustainability analysis shows a broadly positive debt outlook for
Mauritius. Both total public debt and external debt are on sustainable trajectories and the results
of stress tests indicate that debt dynamics are resilient to several shocks. Nevertheless, the
authorities will need to implement their planned fiscal adjustment over the medimun-term  as
previously envisioned. Current projections suggest that the public debt target of 50 percent of
GDP in 2018-as mandated by law-can be met, but a more ambitious fiscal adjustment path
over the medium-term would contribute to reducing debt vulnerabilities.
Fund Relations
9.     Mauritius is on the standard 12-month cycle for bilateral consultations under Article IV of
the I\F's Articles of Agreement. The last Article IV consultation (Country Report No. 12/62
March 2012) was completed by the Executive Board on March 14, 2012. A Financial System
Stability Assessment update was completed by a joint EI-World Bank team on April 20, 2007.
67


﻿3
Table 1 Mauritis: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 2010-2018
2010  2011       2012            2013       2014    2015    2016    2017    2018
Acua  Actual [adSR   Est.  LastSR   Proj.   Pm    Proj     Pro     Proj    Proj
(Annual pernt charge, uress otherwise indicated)
National incore, prices and empomin ent
Real GP                                                   4.1     3.8    3.7     3.3    4.1     37     44      47      4.6    4.5     45
Real GO  per capia                                        3.6     3.4    3.1     2.7    3.5     3.2     38     4.1     4.2    4.1      4.1
GDP percapila (in US dollars)                           7,562   8,725  8403    8,851  8,789   9,389   9,913  10,487  11,102  11,807  12,562
GDP dellator                                              1.7     4.1    3.9     3.3    5.9     5.7    4.6     47      5.0    5.0     5.0
Cnasumer prices period average)                           2.9     6.5    4.8     3.9    5.3     5.7    4.6     47      5.0    5.0     5.0
Cnasumer pricesend operid)                               6.1     4.9    5.0     3.2    5.5     6.0     5.1    5.0     5.0    5.0     5.0
Unemployment ae (percen)                                 7.8     7.9      .     8.0
(Annual percent change, in US Dolars)
External sector
Exports of grs and servces, fo.b                         18.9    196     30      48     6.1     6.7     6.3    6.7     6.8    7.1      73
OfW hich: taurismrecepis                              15.9   230      2.9     1.7   10.3    43      55      54     5.8     5.8     59
lmpaogos and servis, f.                             20.5    208     30      39     43      59     53      6.0     57     6.5     65
Nomial efectre excharngerate (annual avehags)             3.2     3.3     .      0.5
Real effeerve excange rate (annual averages)              3.2     6.2     .      1.3
Termsftrade                                             -55     -5.3     ..     0.5
(Anual change in percent of begrning of perid M2)
Money and caredit
Net oreinrassets                                         202     -77    169      87             74
Dlestic eredit                                           10.3     86    100     127            11.5
Net daimson govemment                                   10     -14     15     02              1.0
Creditto norgoernmentsector                             99    102      82     150            10.4
Broad money (end of period,annual pernceiage charge)     7.6     46    123      64             97
lincomevelocityofbradmoney                                0.9     10     09      10             1.0
Inerest rale(weihtedaverageTB, prmaryacLions)          39      46      .      33
(Purcent of GDP, unnessolherwise indicated)
Central govenmernt finances
Overal consoidated baance (ineluding grants) 2            -3.0   -21     -37    -23     -3.2   -2.6    -1.9   -1.4    -15     -1.5    -1.8
Primary balan  (indudirg grants)                          0.4     09     T 5     07     -T.6    0.1     0.7    1.2     1.1    1.1      0.9
Revenes and ganls                                        21.9    214    218     214    20.9    21.9   21.3    20.3   20.2    202      20.3
Expendilure, xc. net lending                             24.9    235    255     237    24.1    24.5   23.2    21.7    21.7   21.8    22.0
Dlestic debt ofcentra govemmert                         43.1    426    405     415    38.1    397     37.6   374     36.0   34.5     33.2
Extemal debtofcenral govemment                            75      8.4   10.0     8.7    11.6   10.3    12.4   12.6    12.6   11.7     10.9
Investment and saving
Grossrdesticinvesiment                                  23.6    25.7   24.8    24.7   25.3    25.1    25.3   25.5    25.6   25.8     25.9
Public                                                   6.1    5.5     7.4    5.5     77      7.6    7.1     7.2    56      54      50
Private                                                 17.5   20.2    17.5    19.2   175     17.5   18.2    18.2   20.0    204     20.9
Goss national sargs                                     13.3    13.1   14.8    14.7    16.4   15.4    16.2   16.7    17.5   18.1     18.7
Public                                                  -0.5   -0.5     0.2     1.0    0.5     1.3    1.1     0.9    0.7     0.7     0.4
Private                                                 13.8    13.6   14.7    13.7   15.8   14.1    15.2    15.8   16.7    17.4    18.2
External sector
Balance of goeds and services                            -12.2  -13.2  -13.8   -13.0   -12.7  -12.5   -11.8  -11.5   -10.8   -10.5   -10.1
Expom    godis andservis, fo. b                        50.9   526     539    540     54.4   5411    54 1    54.3   54.6    54.8    55.0
Impeorts ofgos and servics, fo b                       -63.1   -658   -677    -670   -672    -6.5   -66.0   -65.8  -65.4   -65.2   -65.1
Curentaccunt baance                                    -10.3  -12.6   -10.2  -10.0   -9.1    -97     -9.1   -8.8    -B.1   -77      -7.2
OverAl balane                                             2.1     1.6    -2.4    1.8    0.2     1.2     1.3    1.1     1.4    1.7      1.7
Tetal externaldebt3                                      22.3    23.7   16.1    23.7    177    25.1    26.7   26.5    25.9   24.9     23.8
Net intematonal reserves (millionso U.S dollars)        2,448   2,631  2420    2,834  2512    2,977   3,144  3298    3,497  3,766   4,044
Months of impats orgods and services, fo.b             4.8    43      39     44      39     44      44      44     44      44      45
Meorandum dems-
GDIPat curarent markel prices billions of Maurioan upees)  298.8  3228  350 0  3446  385.9  3779   412.5   451.9   496.2  544.5    5975
GDIP atcrent markel prices (millions ofrUS. dollars)   9,706  11,244      .  11467      .
Public sectordeb (pecent ofGDP)                          574     57.4   57.0    56.2   55.7    55.8    55.0   542     526    500     47.6
Foreign and lcal curren cyong-tetlrmdebt ratng (Moodys)  Baa2   Baa2      ..   Ba
Sources: Maurian auitries and IMF statteslimaes and projectins
IncLuescredittoparastatals
2GFSA201conptofnetlending/net=borrowng,indudesspecal andotherexraudgetaryfuns
5Numberswere revisedi oinclue pnvate ebremal debtranrsaclionsas repoed in the 2011 Forei Asses and Liabilities  rvey (FALS)
4 These figures do not dscount cerlain types ofStale-owned enteurises debt. Such dicounitng i ervisaged under the 2008 Public Debt Management Act for
he purposesof calcAlaing tho public debt ceiling. ln 2011, dscounted SOE debt amounted to 33 percent ofGDP.
68


﻿ANNEX 4: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
MAURITIUS: Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan
Difference between
expected and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                          disbursements
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                IBRD      IDA       SF      GEF      Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.   Frm. Rev'd
P091828    2010   MU-Infrastructure Project                50.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     29.46    25.34      25.76
Total:   50.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     29.46    25.34      25.76
MAURITIUS
Statement of the International Finance Corporation's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
in Millions of US Dollars
Committed                                Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval    Company                  Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.  Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.
2012          I&P (III) Capital                     12.5                                      3.5
2011           State Bank of Mtius (SBM)  75.0                                     75.0
2009           Stanbic Mtius                                  20.0                                     20.0
2006          I&P Capital (II)                       9.6                                      9.6
Total portfolio:  75.0     22.1      20.0        0.00     75.0      13.1      20.0       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval   Company                         Loan        Equity      Quasi      Panic.
2012          tbd36                           10.0
Total pending commitment:   10.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
36 Tbd: to be disclosed
69


﻿ANNEX 5: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
MAURITIUS: Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan
Mauritius at a glance                                                          312912
Sub-   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                      Saharan   middle-
Mauritius    Africa  income       Developmrentdianond'
2010
Population, mid-year (milions)                      1.3      853     2,452
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                7,750     1,16     5884               Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                     99      4004    14,429
Average annual growth, 2004-10                                                                 T
Population(%)                                       06       25        0.7
Laborforce(%}                                       17       28        12      GNI                            Gross
per |-pnimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 2004-10)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty (%ofpopuatranbelov nationalpovertyfine)
Urban population (%oftotalpopulaton)               43        37       57
Lifeexpectancy at birth (Wars)                      73        54       73
Infant mortality (pert000tvebirths)                 13        76       17
Chid malnutrition (%ofchldren under5)               .        22        3         Access toimproved watersource
Access loan improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)    99        61       93
Literacy (%ol population age It+)                   88        62       93
Gross primaryenrollment (%olschoot-agepopotatn)    99       100       111               Mritius
Male                                              99        104       111        -     Uper-moe-monegroup
Female                                            00        95       111
KEY ECONOM IC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1990    2000      2009      2010
Economic rathsa
GDP (LS$ bilans)                           27       4-6     88        97
Gross capital formation/GDP               30.2     261       212      23.8
Exports ofgoods andserv/ces/GDP           65.0     614      49.0      52.4                   Trade
Grosstdomesticsavings/GDP                 23.0     256       V.5      I1
Gross national savings/GDP                25.8     263       150      135
Current account balance/GDP                -31      06       -74      -8.2
Interest payments/GDP                       18       11      0.2       02      Domestic                   Capital
Totaldebt/GDP                              351     206       94        1.l     aving
Totaldebt servicelexports                  93       131      20       18
Present valueofdebt/GDP                                                8.3
Present value of debtlexports                                  .       11
Indebtedness
1990-00 2000-10     2009      2010   2010-14
(average annual gro wth)
GDP                                52      39       30       4.2       44                 Mawitoas
GDPpercap/ta                      40       31       25       3.7       3.9          -     Upp-m.iJe-incaneop
Exports ofgoods andservices        56      2.4     -35      00        54
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(   1990    2000      2009 '   2010      Growth ofcapital and GDP (%A)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                               129      70       43        4.2
20
Industry                                  32.8     310       291      286      10
Manufacturing                            24.4    235        O.4      191      0
Services                                  54.4     621      666       67.2    10       05   06   07   08    09   10
20
Householdfinal consumption expenditure    63.4     603      740       73.6    30
Generalgovt final consumption expenditure  13.6    141      14.1     13.9                   GF     --GD
Imports ofgoods andservices               72.2     61.9      584      63.8
(average90-00 2000-10                                      2009     201       Growth ofexports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                00      -04        88       -13    15
Industry                                   54       20       2.9       2.7    10
Manufacturing                             53      07         21       21
Services                                   6.3      59       3.8       50             0
Householdfinal consumption expendhure     51       34        51      -04     10
General govt final consumption expenditure  3.6     34        51       34     15
Gross capital formation                    48       41      -20.9     141                 Exports  --- Imports
Imports ofgoods andservices                 51      20       -91       71
Note: 200 data are preliminary estimates
This table was produced from the Development Economics LUB database
-The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
70


﻿Mauritius
PRICES andGOVERNMENT FINANCE
1990    2000      2009     2010
Inflation (%il)
Domestic prices
(%change)                                                                     13
Consumer prices                            13.5     42       2.5       29
In plicit GDP deflator 101                         2.1      -02       19
Government finance                                                             3
(%ofGoP,incudescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                           23.0     190      228       219             05   06    07   05   09    10
Current budget balance                     27      -19      0       -07
Overall surplus/deficit                    -19     -4.8     -35       -38                    uPdefator -    cPI
TRADE
1990    2000      2009     2010
(US$manonw)            90      000      009       010      Exportandimportilevels(UJS$ mill.)
(US$ m,illio ox)                                                                                        m
Totalexports (fob)                        1,163   1,578     1929     2259     5,000
Sugar                                     329     240       21       348
na                                                          282      329     4.000
Manufactures                              718    1,14      1,126    1293     3.000
Totalimports(cif)                         1,431   2,158     4,091    4,398    2       *000i     rI
Food                                      187     299       762      821
Fuel and energy                           105      151      641      865    1000
Capital goods                             328     653       956      91        0
Export price index (2000--10)             105      00        14       121           04  05   06   07  0   09   10
In port price index t2000=19)              101    100       130      145               mExpos     *Iwport
Terms oftrade (2000=100)                  104      0        88       83
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1990    2000      2009     2010
dUS$ crayns)                                0     00Currentaccount batnelo GDP(%)
Exports ofgoods and services              1,621   2,686     4,156   4,942      0
Eports ofgoods and services              1,784   2,725     5,080    6,127     2    04    H   6        0    0    1
Resource balance                          -133     -39      -923     -D185
Net income                                  -8      -11       53      205
Net current transfers                       87      79       213      183
Current acco unt balance                   -83      29      -654     -797
10-
Financing items (net)                      244      U6      1,033     998     12
Changes in net reserves                    -161    -135     -379     -201
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ niloas)      521     688     2,824     3,141
Conversionrate(DEC,Iocal/US$)              149     262       320      30.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
'   1990    2000      2009 r   2010
gUS$ nuff. o)                               0Compositionof 2010 debt(US$ mil.)
Totaldebt outstanding and disbursed        932     946       826     1,076
IORD                                      176     86       204      197
G:3
IDA                                        19      13        8        7            F 188              A 197
Totaldebt service                           151    453       129      131
IORD                                      30      23         11       9                                    B:7
IDA                                        0        1         1        1
Composition ofnet resourceflows
Officialgrants                            25       9        95       73
Officialcredits.                         57      -2        16    247                                     D:298
Private creditors                         44     -261        31      27           E :3
Foe mign direct investment (net inflows)  41     266       257       431
Portfolio equity(net inflows)              0       -4      206       -40
Vrld Bank program
Commiments                               30        5       21)      20
Disbursements                              6       4        109       3       A-IBRD                    E - BIlalerld
Principal repayments                      16       19        9        7       B-IDA    D- Othermultlatral  F- PrIae
Net flows                                 -11     -15      100        -4   IC - IMF                     G-Short-rerm,
Interest payments                          14       5        3        3
Nettransfers                             -25     -20        97        -6
Note: This tablewas produced from the Development Economics LDB database.                                    3/29/12
71


﻿IBRD 33446
57°30'E                                             Rodrigues Island                      INDIAN
MAUR I T lU s                                                                     Fa"                                                   OCEAN
M U I I SIsland                                                                19%4015           Part Mat4iuriIOCA
o     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                         Grand
Montagne
e     DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                       La Femme         Petit
®     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                         Gabriel
Gunner's
RIVERS                                                                         Quoin          19 Å55                           0 1 2 3 Kilometers
Crab                   l l l  l
MAIN ROADS                                                                                              sand                  01    2   3ailes
63o20'E           63125'E            63°30'E
.......DISTRICT BOUNDARIES_____________________
-    -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                      57°45'E
20°00'S Cannoniers                                                                             20°00's
Point
Grand
This map s produced by the MAp Design Umt fThe World Bank                 Ban                     Gau be
The boundaries, colors, denominatons and any ether imformtion,                                  Goodlands      e D'Ambre
shown on his map do not imply, en the part ef The World Bank
Greup, eny judgment en the legal status ef any teiory, er any
endorseor ecceplance ef sucsh boundnes                                             R i V"I ÉRE
Triolet                         E   Poudre d'Or
PMPLEMOUSSES              REMP
Riviere du
Pamplemnous             Rempart
BénitlerZ
I N   D  IA    N                                 Rouee"°°
OCEAN
PORT LOUIS
LaBo
P OR T              N'c°itére            A<cue,l
LO UI S
Point                                                       co    4,                       Centre
Petite Riviér-e,'90                                                                  400           deý Flacq
MOKA                                                            Pointe
Quartier                  "F LA    COQ                      Quatre Cocos
20°15'S                                   Rose Hill e20°5'S
ç) Bel Air
Bambou GOs[Îe aux Cerls
Pito de Mieu             oniogne
Pi2en4xMReservowr
Vacoas N
Tamain . Rwree Tmo             Crepie              Gand River Sout East
...........Pointe
B LA CK                    ,P LA IN   ES                                                                 du Diable
RIVER                     WILDHEMBS                            G R A N D               Gand
G,e                               MøreNouve||e                  P OR T                 °or
40'&                     ax   France
1) Vacoas
Mont Piton oRose Be||e
17e aux         (828 m) A                            Grn    osex                                        eMahebourg         O    C  E A    N
Bénitiers
Mt. Cocotie
Pointe (mm)
O e SAVANNE
Ouest                                                              LEscalier
%, Chemnin       Riviére des  -;
Grenier       Anguilles     a.
20,30'S        Baie du Cap
Surndam
0  12 3 4     5 Kilometers
0    1   2   3    4   5 Miles
57°30'E
DECEMBER 2004


