                                 Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                       Report No: ICR00003247



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (IBRD-81380 and IBRD 82470)



                                ON A SERIES OF

                       PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE

                       DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOANS



                  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION EACH

                                    TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS



                                  June 22, 2015




Macroeconomics and Fiscal Management Global Practice
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 22, 2015)

                Currency Unit = Mauritius Rupee
                     Rs 1.00 = US$0.0281
                      US$1.00 = Rs 35.55

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB     African Development Bank
AFD      Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
AFT      Aid for Trade
AMB      Agricultural Marketing Board
BOI      Board of Investment
BoM      Bank of Mauritius
CPE      Certificate of Primary Education
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DPL      Development policy loan
DSA      Debt sustainability analysis
ESS      Education Sector Strategy
EU       European Union
FDI      Foreign direct investment
GDP      Gross domestic product
HRMIS    Human Resources Management Information System
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA      Investment Climate Assessment
ICT      Information and communications technology
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IT       Information Technology
KPI      Key performance indicators
MCSAR    Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms
MID      Maurice Ile Durable (Sustainable Mauritius)
MoBECC   Ministry of Business, Enterprise, and Cooperatives
MoEHR    Ministry of Education and Human Resources
MoFED    Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
MoSIEE   Ministry of Social Integration and Economic Empowerment
MoSS     Ministry of Social Security, National Solidarity, and Reform
         Institutions
MRA      Mauritius Revenue Authority
NDS      National Development Strategy
NEF      National Empowerment Foundation

                                i
NTBs   Non-tariff barriers
NTMs   Non-tariff measures
OPSG   Office of Public Sector Governance
PBB    Program-based budgeting
PDMA   Public Debt Management Act
PEFA   Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment
PFM    Public Financial Management
PIMS   Parastatals Information Management System
PMSD   Parti mauricien social démocrate (Social democratic party)
PPP    Public-private partnership
PSC    Private sector competitiveness
PSIP   Public Sector Investment Plan
PSIA   Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
SMEs   Small and medium-sized enterprises
SOEs   State-owned enterprises
SRM    Social Register of Mauritius
TVET   Technical and vocational education and training
UNDP   United Nations Development Program
ZEP    Zones d’Education Prioritaires (Priority Education Zones)




               Vice President: Makhtar Diop
            Country Director: Mark R. Lundell
            Practice Manager: Mark R. Thomas
           Task Team Leader: Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto
           ICR Team Leader: Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto




                              ii
                              The Republic of Mauritius
         First and Second Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loans



Contents
 B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. v
 C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................... vi
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................... vii
 E. Bank Staff............................................................................................................... viii
 F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................ viii
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ............................................................ xi
 H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................. xi
 1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
    1.1 Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 1
    1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved) .................................................................................................................... 3
    1.3 Revised PDO (if any, as approved by original approving authority) and Key
    Indicators, and Reasons/Justification .......................................................................... 4
    1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved):......................... 4
    1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable) .................................................................... 4
    1.6 Other significant changes ...................................................................................... 5
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
    2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix) ........ 5
    2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation: ............................................................ 7
    2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization: ... 11
    2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any): .......................................... 12
    None expected at this time. ....................................................................................... 12
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
    3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ............................................................ 24
    3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .......................................... 24
    3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ... 26
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 26
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 27
    5.1 Bank Performance ............................................................................................... 27
    5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................ 30
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 30
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 32
MAP IBRD 33446 ............................................................................................................ 40




                                                                iii
List of Annexes

Annex A. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............... 33
Annex B. Beneficiary Survey Results .............................................................................. 34
Annex C. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................... 35
Annex D. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 36
Annex E. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................... 38
Annex F. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 39

List of Tables

Table 1: Prior Action for First and Second Public Sector Performance DPLs ................... 5
Table 2: DPL Indicators Results ....................................................................................... 14




                                                           iv
A. Basic Information
Program 1
                                                                   Mauritius First Public
                                                                   Sector Performance
Country              Mauritius               Program Name
                                                                   Development Policy
                                                                   Loan
Program ID           P125694                 L/C/TF Number(s)      IBRD-81380
ICR Date             02/27/2015              ICR Type              Core ICR
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument   DPL                     Borrower
                                                                   MAURITIUS
Original Total
                     USD 20.00M              Disbursed Amount      USD 20.00M
Commitment


Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Co-financiers and Other External Partners
Program 2
                                                                   MU -Second Public
Country              Mauritius               Program Name          Sector Performance
                                                                   DPL
Program ID           P128140                 L/C/TF Number(s)      IBRD-IBRD-82470
ICR Date             02/27/2015              ICR Type              Core ICR
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument   DPL                     Borrower
                                                                   MAURITIUS
Original Total
                     USD 20.00M              Disbursed Amount      USD 20.00M
Commitment


Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Co-financiers and Other External Partners



B. Key Dates
Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan - P125694
                                                                      Revised / Actual
   Process              Date           Process       Original Date
                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review:      05/16/2011   Effectiveness:            n.a.           06/20/2012
Appraisal:           01/10/2012   Restructuring(s):
Approval:            03/27/2012   Mid-term Review:
                                  Closing:              12/31/2012         12/31/2012



                                             v
MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL - P128140
                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process            Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:      09/27/2012    Effectiveness:              n.a.         07/12/2013
Appraisal:           01/07/2013    Restructuring(s):
Approval:            03/27/2013    Mid-term Review:
                                   Closing:                 06/30/2014      06/30/2014




C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
 Overall Program Rating
Outcomes                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                    Moderate
Bank Performance                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                           Moderately Satisfactory




C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
 Overall Program Rating
        Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry            Satisfactory        Government:         Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                     Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance                                     Performance




C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan - P125694
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                               Indicators                               Rating:
      Performance                                  (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                            Quality at Entry
Program at any time      No                                     None
                                            (QEA)
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                     Quality of
                         No                                     None
time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA)
 DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status



                                              vi
 MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL - P128140
     Implementation                        QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                              Rating:
      Performance                               (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                         Quality at Entry
Program at any time     No                                 None
                                         (QEA)
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                  Quality of
                        No                                 None
time (Yes/No):                           Supervision (QSA)
 DO rating before       Moderately
Closing/Inactive status Satisfactory




D. Sector and Theme Codes
Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan - P125694
                                                        Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                          25               25
General industry and trade sector                          38               38
Other social services                                      25               25
Secondary education                                        12               12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                    25               25
Education for all                                          12               12
Social Safety Nets/Social Assistance & Social Care
                                                           25               25
Services
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization     25               25
e-Services                                                 13               13

MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL - P128140
                                                         Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                          25               25
Other domestic and international trade                     38               38
Other social services                                      25               25
Vocational training                                        12               12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                    12               12
Education for the knowledge economy                        13               13

                                              vii
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                             12                 12
procurement
Social Protection and Labor Policy & Systems                 25                 25
Trade facilitation and market access                         38                 38




E. Bank Staff
Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan - P125694
        Positions                    At ICR                     At Approval
Vice President:         Makhtar Diop                  Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:       Mark R. Lundell               Haleh Z. Bridi
Practice
                        Mark Roland Thomas            Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz
Manager/Manager:
Task Team Leader:       Rafael Munoz Moreno           William David Wiseman
ICR Team Leader:        Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto
ICR Primary Author:     Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto

MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL - P128140
        Positions                  At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:       Makhtar Diop                      Makhtar Diop
Country Director:     Mark R. Lundell                   Haleh Z. Bridi
Practice
                      Mark Roland Thomas                John Panzer
Manager/Manager:
Task Team Leader:     Rafael Munoz Moreno               Rafael Munoz Moreno
ICR Team Leader:      Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto
ICR Primary Author:   Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto




F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)
5.     The development objective of the DPL programmatic series is to support
improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the
government to implement the following three reform pillars: (i) strengthening services to
support and empower the most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and
processes; and (iii) improving human resource management in the civil service and the
monitoring of SOE performance.

Revised Program Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
6.     Program Development Objectives were not revised.



                                            viii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan - P125694
                                       Original Target  Formally       Actual Value
                             Baseline   Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
        Indicator
                               Value      approval        Target      Completion or
                                         documents)       Values       Target Years

 MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL - P128140
                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                 Baseline     Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
           Indicator
                                  Value         approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
                   Number of people with less than a secondary school certificate (SC) placed in
Indicator 1 :
                   Placement for Training
Value
(quantitative or 912                       1200                               3280
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments
                   Met 100% and overpassed by 2,080 people with SC been placed in the
(incl. %
                   Placement for Training.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Number of households in the Social Register of Mauritius (SRM)
Value
(quantitative or Zero                      13,000                             29,318
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Met 100% and overpassed by 16,318 households in the SRM.
achievement)
                   Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational
Indicator 3 :
                   education cycle
Value
(quantitative or 72.2%                     74.2%                              72.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2010              12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments           Not Met. The Prevocational Education system was extended to 4 years. Out of
(incl. %           the 2434 students who started in Year I in 2011, 1768 (72.6%) completed Year
achievement)       III in 2013 and 1561 (64.1%) completed Year IV in December 2014.
Indicator 4 :      Number of regulations on which a decision is taken after review
Value
(quantitative or zero                      30                                 25
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                         05/28/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Partially Met (83%)
achievement)


                                               ix
                   Number of ministries involved in issuing certificates/ permits/clearances
Indicator 5 :
                   connected with the national single window
Value
(quantitative or   Zero                                        All             None
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011                                     12/31/2013      12/31/2013
                   Not Met. However, the Mauritius Single Window system has been enhanced
Comments
                   by the development of a National Single Window-OGA portal. 12 agencies
(incl. %
                   have been identified to join it and first prototype pilot version was developed
achievement)
                   and tested in December 2014.
                   The amount of time needed to settle the Customs administrative penalty
Indicator 6 :
                   amount
Value
(quantitative or   6 weeks                  3 weeks                            2 weeks
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011               12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Met 100% and target overpassed by one week.
achievement)
                   Gradual reduction of processing time relating to the prescription of schemes of
Indicator 7 :
                   service and in the number of schemes of service
                                            4 months for
                                                                               3.5 months for
                                            processing time;
                                                                               processing time;
                                            consolidation of
                   6 months for processing                                     consolidation of
Value                                       Schemes of
                   time; above 2,500 for                                       Schemes of Service
(quantitative or                            Service piloted in
                   number of Schemes of                                        piloted in MCSAR
Qualitative)                                to MCSAR and
                   Service                                                     and extended to
                                            extended to other
                                                                               other sectors of the
                                            sectors of the civil
                                                                               civil service.
                                            service.
Date achieved      12/31/2011               12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
                   Met 100%. Processing time average is 3-4 weeks, with some cases being
Comments
                   amended in about one month. The number of schemes of services has been
(incl. %
                   reduced by around 14% compared to the 2011. It was piloted in the MCSAR
achievement)
                   and is taking place in other ministries.
                   Number of SOEs included in the annual performance report prepared by the
Indicator 8 :      Office of Public Sector Governance (OPSG) and published on the OPSG
                   website
Value
(quantitative or   Zero                     25                                 14
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011               12/31/2013                         05/28/2014
Comments
                   Partially Met (56%).57 SOEs have been registered in the PIMS database and
(incl. %
                   14 Performance Reports have been completed, but not published.
achievement)




                                                 x
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan - P125694
                                       Original Target  Formally       Actual Value
                                        Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                          approval        Target      Completion or
                                         documents)       Values       Target Years

Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan - P125694
                                       Original Target  Formally       Actual Value
                                        Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                          approval        Target      Completion or
                                         documents)       Values       Target Years




G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan - P125694
                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                            DO                     IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
 1    09/01/2012           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    0.00

MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL - P128140
                                                                          Actual
        Date ISR
 No.                          DO                        IP            Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    10/28/2013        Satisfactory               Satisfactory               19.95
  2    06/26/2014    Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory               19.95


H. Restructuring (if any)




                                               xi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       This DPL series of two loans followed a previous DPL series for Mauritius. As the
first series was coming to an end, it was increasingly evident that the government’s reform
agenda remained unfinished and critical constrains to economic development, particularly
with regard to public sector performance, still needed to be addressed. GDP growth rates,
although positive, were still below the level necessary to achieve the country’s aspiration
to become a high-income country by the end of the next decade. There was evidence that
domestic factors, such as skilled mismatches and infrastructural bottlenecks, were
impacting the economic development of Mauritius and competitiveness had weakened as
a result of this structural rigidities. To accelerate GDP growth while facing external
imbalances, it was evident that Mauritius needed to undertake structural reforms to promote
national savings and raise competitiveness. This series identified areas that included access
to better skills, improvement in infrastructure and a more efficient public sector. At that
time, the Government was preparing to present their new program for 2012-15 called
Moving the Nation Forward (MNF) with the main objective of helping Mauritius become
a high-income country in ten years’ time. In that context, this DPL series was prepared to
support the Government efforts to achieve its development goals. The DPL was also
intended to be a beacon for sharing knowledge with the authorities and harmonize dialogue
while providing a well-priced source of funds.

2.      The DPL was prepared in coordination with the First Sector Competitiveness (PSC)
DPL series. The two DPL series were designed to mutually reinforce and address
complementary aspects of the Government’s reform program for 2012-15 called Moving
the Nation Forward (MNF). The MNF contains six pillars covering economic, political,
social, and environmental issues (see paragraph 19 for examples of linkages between DPLs
and MNF Pillars). The strategies in the MNF were translated into specific policy measures
through the budget process. The first budget since the launch of the MNF was presented to
Parliament in November 2012 and elaborated on many of the areas discussed in the MNF
and supported by the two DPLs. The PSC DPL series would focus primarily on
strengthening the policy and institutional environment for private sector competitiveness,
while this series focus primarily on the performance of the public sector.

3.      When the first operation was appraised in January 2012, the economy was
continuing to recover from an adverse external environment. However, the coalition
government that was elected in 2010 lost one of their parties in mid-2011. The withdrawal
of the Mouvement socialiste militant (MSM) from its alliance with the Labor Party and the
Parti mauricien social démocrate (PMSD) to join the opposition created a less satisfactory
environment to a vigorous reform agenda at a time of extreme global economic uncertainty.
GDP had grown by 4.1 percent in 2010 amid global economic turbulence and was
estimated to have grown about the same magnitude in 2011. Growth was mainly driven
by the service sector (mostly financial services and real state) and recuperation in the
manufacturing of textiles. The government was paying careful attention to retain fiscal
                                            1
space should need to sustain aggregate demand in a highly uncertain environment. The
fiscal deficit narrowed from 3 percent in 2010 to an estimated 2.4 percent in 2011 as
expenditures decreased faster than revenues. The wage bill was lower than expected as
government delayed filling up positions in the civil service. There were also lower than
expected capital expenditures and the special funds showed net savings. Monetary policy
had been tightening during 2011 due to inflationary pressures, but they moderated by the
end of the year (to 4.9 percent by December 2011 from 6.1percent the previous year on
year rate). The current account was widening as international commodity prices were
increasing. In 2011, exports grew in nominal terms by 16 percent while imports grew by
17 percent. Tourism receipts also grew during the first three quarters, but started to show
possible difficulties for the following year as arrivals from the EU decreased in the fourth
quarter. Reserves, however, increased in nominal term as the inflow of portfolio
investment and official loan disbursements were adequate, but decreased as percent of
imports of goods and services (from 4.8 in 2010 to 4.2 in 2011).

4.      By the time the second operation was appraised, there were positive and negative
economic developments which affected the public sector reform program. Economic
growth in 2012 had slowed down, from 3.8 percent in 2011 to 3.3 percent in 2012. The
unfavorable external environment had weakened economic activity. Textile exports had
decreased, construction had slowed down and tourist arrivals from Europe had slowed
down (decreased by 8 percent in 2012), although tourism from Africa and Asia partially
compensated with an increased by almost 15 percent. Growth was led by strong ITC and
financial service sectors. Although the outlook for 2013 was positive, with GDP projected
to grow at 3.7 percent, substantial risks remained both domestically to accelerate the
reforms needed and externally, with headwinds from the uncertain European recovery. The
fiscal position was improving and the government had achieved greater debt consolidation
in 2012 than previously expected. The deficit was lower than previously estimated at 2.3
percent of GDP as revenues kept constant while expenditures decreased, mainly transfers,
including to SOEs, and subsidies that drop by over one percent of GDP compared to 2011.
Also expenditures on goods and services were lower as percent of GDP than the previous
year. Monetary policy was accommodative in 2012, after reducing the REPO rate in March
2012, the Bank of Mauritius kept it constant until the end of the year in light of the
continued uncertainty in the global outlook and declining inflation (3.2 percent by
December 2012). The external current account deficit narrowed from 12.6 percent of GDP
in 2011 to an estimated 10 percent of GDP in 2012, although exports only increased by 5
percent as the ongoing crisis in the EU adversely impacted trade.

5.      More recently, data for 2014 shows GDP growth at 3.2 percent, below earlier
projections of 3.7-4 percent due to the continued slowdown in the Eurozone. The
construction sector declined by 6.7 percent, and the textile sector grew merely 1.5%.
Growth continued to be supported by the services sector, mainly financial services, trade,
and ICT which grew by 5.4%, 3.2 % and 6.4% respectively in 2014. Growth in the tourism
sector also accelerated to 4.1% in 2014. Fiscal policy remained consistent with
macroeconomic stability, although public expenditure has increased from 25.9% of GDP
in 2013 to 26.2% of GDP in 2014 due to rising current expenditure. The current account
deficit has narrowed slightly to 9.2% of GDP in 2014 compared to 9.9% of GDP in 2013,
                                             2
driven by a decline in the trade deficit and lower net outflows. Exports have remained
stable around 52% of GDP in recent years. The current account deficit continues to be
financed by FDI (mainly in real estate activities accommodation and food services), and
financial flows from Global Business companies (GBC). Inflation declined to 3.2% percent
in 2014, in part related to subsiding food and oil international prices. Gross international
reserves increased to USD 4.0 billion in 2014 (6.0 months of import cover), compared to
USD 3.3 billion in 2013 (representing 4.8 months of import of goods and service).

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

6.     The development objective of the DPL programmatic series is to support
improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the
government to implement the following three reform pillars: (i) strengthening services to
support and empower the most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and
processes; and (iii) improving human resource management in the civil service and the
monitoring of SOE performance.

7.     The key indicators as approved were grouped under the three pillars of the program
development objectives and were sub-categorized according to the indicator area of focus:

Pillar I: Strengthening Services to Support and Empower the Most Vulnerable

   a.    Social Protection
        i. Number of people with less than a secondary school certificate (SC) placed in
           Placement for Training.
     ii.   Number of households in the Social Register of Mauritius (SRM).

   b. Education
     i. Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational
        education cycle.

Pillar II: Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes

      i.     Number of regulations on which a decision is taken after review
     ii.     Number of ministries involved in issuing certificates/ permits/clearances
             connected with the national single window
    iii.     The amount of time needed to settle the Customs administrative penalty
             amount

Pillar III: Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service &
Monitoring of SOE Performance

   a. Civil Service
     i.  Gradual reduction of processing time relating to the prescription of schemes
         of service and in the number of schemes of service

                                              3
     b. State-owned Enterprises
       i. Number of SOEs included in the annual performance report prepared by the
           OPSG and published on the OPSG website

1.3 Revised PDO (if any, as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved):

8.          The program supported three main policy areas:

     (i)       Strengthening Services to Support and Empower The Most Vulnerable
               This DPL series supported the Government’s objective to promote inclusion
               and social cohesion as laid out in the new government program Moving the
               Nation Forward by focusing on: (i) restructuring the social protection system
               to make it better targeted and more cost-effective and (ii) improving education
               outcomes, especially for the poorest households. These reforms were intended
               to ensure that economic growth was more balanced and equitable.

     (ii)      Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes
               This DPL supported the government’s objective to continue Mauritius’
               transformation into an open, low tax, and business-friendly economy by further
               reforming the regulatory framework and removing administrative bottlenecks
               to enhance competitiveness. The program supported the following government
               measures: (i) streamlining existing regulations and systematically ensuring that
               the design of new regulations was conducive to business; (ii) increasing
               administrative efficiency in trade processes by using IT; and (iii) enhancing the
               effectiveness of the administrative appeals and penalties of the Mauritius
               Customs service.

     (iii)     Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service and the
               Monitoring of SOE Performance
               This DPL focused on establishing the building blocks to increase public sector
               efficiency in the medium term by assisting the government in its efforts to
               introduce a culture of improved service delivery in the public sector. Because
               public sector reforms would require consensus between diverse stakeholders
               and could have affected the political equilibrium, the government continued to
               take a strategically incremental approach. As a result, this DPL aimed to
               increase the efficiency of the public sector by supporting the streamlining of
               civil service management and the strengthening of the coordination and
               monitoring of SOEs to increase their efficiency and transparency.


1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
                                                 4
The policy areas and key were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

9.     There were not any significant changes in design, scope and scale, implementation
arrangements and schedule, or funding allocations.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

10.     The program was supported by two single tranche operations. The First and Second
Public Sector Performance DPLs were approved subject to the implementation of eight
prior actions each (see Table 1). All prior actions were satisfactorily met before their
respective Board approvals on March 27, 2012, and March 27, 2013.

    Table 1: Prior Action for First and Second Public Sector Performance DPLs

                            First Public Sector Performance DPL
        Prior actions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document              Status
  Pillar I: Strengthening Services to Support and Empower The Most Vulnerable
  a. Social Protection
  Prior action 1. The issuance of a new organizational and staffing   Met
  chart for NEF which shall have been approved by the Ministry of
  Social Integration and Economic Empowerment (MoSIEE),
  reflecting the new institutional structure of the National
  Empowerment Foundation (NEF), and with separate departments
  for: (a) child and family development; (b) community
  empowerment; (c) placement and training; and, (d) monitoring and
  evaluation.
  Prior action 2. Cabinet approval of a memorandum giving details     Met
  of a proposal and action plan for the establishment of the Social
  Registry of Mauritius (SRM)
  b. Education
  Prior action 3. Cabinet approval of a concept paper for             Met
  prevocational education reform, giving details of proposed changes
  to existing learning and institutional arrangements, including
  extension of prevocational education to four years, revision of
  curricula, introduction of teaching and learning methods to promote
  retention, and acquisition of core basic skills and technical
  competencies.
  Pillar II: Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes
  Prior action 4. Establishment of a join public-private Business     Met
  Facilitation Task Force, giving it a mandate to review existing
  systems and processes, and streamlining regulations, governing
                                             5
                          First Public Sector Performance DPL
      Prior actions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document              Status
trade investments, with a view to removing bottlenecks and creating
a business-friendly environment.
Prior action 5. Cabinet approval of a memorandum, giving details    Met
of proposed modalities and action plans for the establishment of a
comprehensive and up-to-date Trade Portal.
Prior action 6. Development by the Ministry of Finance and          Met
Economic Development (MoFED) of a draft policy paper on the
proposed establishment within its customs department of an
appropriate internal appeals mechanism that complies with the
requirements of the revised Kyoto Convention, giving details of the
proposed legal and institutional framework, and operating
guidelines and procedures, governing such mechanism.
Pillar III: Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service &
Monitoring of SOE Performance
a. Civil Service
Prior action 7. Submission to Cabinet, by the Ministry of Civil     Met
Service and Administrative Reform (MCSAR), and information
paper, giving details of plans to streamline Schemes of Service and
expedite the process of review, modification and consolidation of
such Schemes of Service, based on adequate consultations with the
civil service unions and other stakeholders, and reflecting the
outcome of such consolations.
b. Public Enterprises
Prior action 8. Cabinet approval of a memorandum, giving details    Met
of the revised mandate of the Office of Public Sector Governance
(OPSG) to: (a) monitor the overall performance of SOEs; (b)
prepare quarterly reports; (c) support line ministries in the
preparation and implementation performance improvement plans;
and, (d) supervise the pace of SOE reforms as approved by Cabinet,
reporting back to Cabinet with proposals for corrective measures as
needed.
                      Second Public Sector Performance DPL
     Prior actions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document               Status
Pillar I: Strengthening Services to Support and Empower The Most Vulnerable

a.    Social Protection
Prior action 1. The Ministry of Social Integration and Economic   Met
Empowerment approves a Strategic Plan for the National
Empowerment Foundation


                                        6
                            First Public Sector Performance DPL
      Prior actions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                     Status
 Prior action 2. New social protection programs use the Social           Met
 Registry of Mauritius for identifying beneficiaries, and the Ministry
 of Social Integration and Economic Empowerment adopts a
 timetable for incorporating existing National Empowerment
 Foundation programs into the Social Registry of Mauritius.
 b. Education
 Prior action 3. The Ministry of Education and Human Resources           Met
 implements new curricula for pre-vocational education, including
 one for the training of trainers.

  Pillar II: Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes
  Prior action 4. The Cabinet approves elimination of permits issued Met
  by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Consumer Protection
  for six products to further facilitate trade in the country.
  Prior action 5. Adoption by the Steering Committee for             Met
  Development and Implementation of the single window of a
  functional model for the single window.
  Prior action 6. The government adopts a prescribed schedule of     Met
  administrative penalties for Customs.
  Pillar III: Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service &
  Monitoring of SOE Performance
  a. Civil Service
  Prior action 7. The Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative       Met
  Reforms appoints a firm to develop a Human Resources
  Management Information System at five pilot sites and adopts
  revised procedures to reduce the time required to amend schemes of
  service from six months to four months.
  b. Public Enterprises
  Prior action 8. The Cabinet has endorsed the implementation of         Met
  the restructuring plans for the National Transport Corporation and
  Business Park Mauritius Limited. The Office of Public Sector
  Governance also provided a report on State Owned Enterprises
  sector performance.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Adequacy of government’s commitment

11.    There was adequate Government Commitment throughout the implementation of
both operations.



                                           7
Soundness of background analysis

Applied Lessons from Previous Operations. This DPL series made use of important
lessons learned from the previous programmatic DPL series. These lessons included
the need to ensure:

   •   Alignment of program with government’s priorities and leadership. The
       government has a strong sense of direction with regard to its reform program. The
       success of a DPL in Mauritius is measured primarily by its capacity to stimulate
       and support the policy agenda rather than its financing. In Mauritius, the
       government views the Bank’s budget support as a catalyst for stimulating and
       coordinating its policy agenda, by contributing technically and effectively
       coordinating different stakeholders. The previous DPL series was effective in
       helping MoFED to bring sector ministries and agencies on board to align other
       donors with the reform effort. During the preparation of this series, the government
       repeatedly emphasized that this is, and will remain, the main value added of World
       Bank support, as it remains possible for the government to close its financing gap
       in both domestic and external markets.

   •   Strong coordination with development partners. The previous DPL series
       succeeded to a large extent because of the harmonized policy dialogue among all
       development partners. This often translated into joint prior actions, missions, and
       single reporting for all development partners, thus significantly reducing the
       government’s transaction costs. Although, this joint partner approach had
       weakened during the 2010 hiatus in Bank DPL support, This DPL programmatic
       series was an opportunity to once again align the policy dialogue and the financing
       of all development partners with the government’s priorities. For instance, the close
       EU and Bank coordination with joint prior actions agreed in the areas of SOE
       reforms, and the joint World Bank/UNDP report on the reform of the NEF have
       both guided the preparation of the social protection component of this operation
       (Pillar 1).

12.     Analytical work. The preparation of this DPL series was based on extensive
analytical work carried out by the Bank, the government, and other partners:
   •   Enhancing and Sustaining Competitiveness in Mauritius: World Bank Policy Notes
       on Trade and Labor nurtured a productive policy dialogue with the government on
       the issue of trade policy and labor markets. This work was complemented by a
       report produced by the Permit Review Committee (PRC) of the Government of
       Mauritius and Jacobs and Associates and DCDM Mauritius in 2009 that highlighted
       constraints to competitiveness such as redundant licensing and permits and the
       duplication of information requested for trade. As a result, a “single window” that
       connects all permit-issuing agencies was established, and a thorough review of
       existing procedures for the issue of licenses and permits was launched.



                                            8
•   The UNDP’s 2011 Report on Trade Mainstreaming in Mauritius identified the
    successes and challenges associated with mainstreaming trade into national
    development strategies.

•   The second 2009 Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) for Mauritius prepared by
    the World Bank, the AfDB, and the Board of Investment (BOI) identified some
    obstacles that hinder firms’ competitiveness, particularly the difficulty that small
    firms have in accessing finance and the lack of skilled labor. Also, the regulatory
    environment (licensing, labor regulations, and tax policy) and infrastructure
    (transportation and electricity) affects firms’ productivity. The recommendations
    made in the ICA have contributed to the reforms outlined in the competitiveness
    component of this series (Pillar 2) on the need to harmonize regulations and
    eliminate red tape.

•   In 2011, the report titled Skills and Technology Absorption in Mauritius prepared
    by the World Bank pointed out constraints in both the education system and on-
    the-job training to increasing the skills of the workforce to enable them to use new
    and emerging technologies. The report’s recommendations focused on the
    important role that should be played by the primary and secondary education
    system, particularly in the pre-vocational system, the need to enhance the capacity
    of tertiary education to teach innovative and technological skills, and the need to
    foster technical and vocational education and training and active labor market
    programs.

•   The government’s 2010 Social Protection Review and Strategy and a 2010 joint
    World Bank/UNDP report on the reform of the NEF have both guided the
    preparation of the social protection component of this series (Pillar 1). These studies
    identified capacity gaps and bottlenecks in program implementation at the NEF and
    recommended steps to increase its effectiveness based on international best
    practices. These reports have guided the policy dialogue to improve institutional
    arrangements at the NEF and its social protection strategies.

•   The World Bank’s 2012 technical overview note titled “Improving the Performance
    of the Civil Service in Mauritius” provided the Ministry of Civil Service and
    Administrative Reform (MCSAR) provided a diagnosis for a civil service reform
    strategy. The note highlighted some constraints to improving the performance of
    the civil service within the current system. The civil service in Mauritius has
    changed only fairly slowly, and it retains more traditional career structures than
    many other Commonwealth administrations, which undermines the government’s
    efforts to make the public sector more results-oriented.

•   In 2011, the Bank produced its Corporate Governance Reports on the Observance
    of Standards and Codes (ROSC) Report, which assessed the corporate governance
    policy framework in Mauritius and showed the progress in implementing most of
    the recommendations from the 2002 Corporate Governance ROSC. In addition, the
    Bank also prepared a Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) –
                                          9
       Accounting and Auditing in 2011. The report recommended the adoption by the
       private sector and SOEs of the good accounting and auditing practices necessary to
       produce quality financial reports. The report also recommended improved support
       to accountants and auditors – including those in SOEs – to ensure that they fully
       comply with the stipulated financial reporting standards and issue quality reports
       that support accountability and necessary decision making.

Assessment of the operation’s design

13.      The scope of reforms supported by this DPL series was appropriate. It covered
critical areas of public sector reform as envisaged in the Country Partnership Strategy
(2007-1013) for Mauritius (developed jointly by the World Bank and the Government of
Mauritius) and in the government’s own reform agenda as presented in their 2012-15
program “Moving the Nation Forward”(MNF). The CPS Progress Report approved in
2011 which extended the CPS to FY2015 to align it with the electoral cycle in Mauritius,
emphasized that this DPL series would be the Bank’s main vehicle for supporting the
government’s broad reform agenda. This DPL series was aligned with the government’s
budget cycle, which is the primary vehicle used by the government to induce new policy
initiatives.
Relevance of the risks identified at appraisal and effectiveness of mitigation

14.     The first risk was the challenge of maintaining macroeconomic stability in the face
of a highly uncertain global economic climate, particularly in the European economies to
which Mauritius is substantially exposed. The trend towards reorienting trade to new
markets (for example, Africa and Asia) and new products has helped this exposure. On
the fiscal front, the government has made efforts to consolidate the fiscal deficit and reduce
public debt. Current account deficits, although high, have been adequately financed,
mostly by high FDI and inflows to the financial sector. The DPL has been supportive of
government efforts to maintain macro stability and followed economic developments
closely through implementation

15.     The second risk was the potential political constrains that could affect the pace of
the reform agenda. Many of these new reforms would have redistributive effects, meaning
that they sometimes eliminate the rents, subsidies, and privileges of certain groups with
vested interests. The approach of this DPL series was to mitigate this risk by supporting
reforms for which a consensus existed, helping to put in place the building blocks to
expedite the reform program over the medium term. This DPL series took a pragmatic
approach by supporting reforms that were backed by a broad consensus and that would
yield some immediate benefits (for example, in trade and social protection), while laying
the necessary foundations required to accelerate other reforms in the future.

16.     The third risk was that institutional constraints, including limited capacity in sector
ministries, might had made it more difficult to effectively design, implement, and monitor
the reforms. These institutional constraints and the potential political constraints had the
potential to limit the effectiveness and progress of reforms. While previous reforms were

                                              10
led and coordinated by MoFED, the reforms supported by this DPL series were being
overseen in most cases by the sector ministries. This involved a wider range of stakeholders,
which required additional effort to build consensus around the reform agenda. However,
most sector ministries, particularly those that were newly created, lacked the institutional
capacity to build this consensus or to design and implement these sector reforms. In
addition, after a period of ambitious reforms, some stakeholders both within and outside
government were feeling a certain reform fatigue and a reluctance to change. The Bank
has helped the government to mitigate this risk by involving specialized Bank staff in the
DPL dialogue on selected areas and by encouraging a public debate by publishing articles
and technical notes. Additionally, the DPL itself is a catalyst between the different
ministries involved in the reform program, thereby enhancing coordination. Also, the
Bank’s portfolio in Mauritius is designed to strengthen capacity in a way that is tailored to
the needs of a middle-income country.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

17.     Designed. The indicators selected by this operation were carefully chosen to
monitor progress towards the program development objectives. Indicator 3 (Percentage of
students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational education cycle) was changed
as the duration of the pre-vocational training was extended to 4 years instead of 3 which
made it difficult to evaluate it fully before December 2014 given that the end of the pre-
vocational cycle for the first cohort was December 2014. Also, indicator on the timing for
the SOEs report was changed in DPL2 to reflect the fact that an annual report would be
prepared (instead of quarterly reports).

18.     Implementation. MoFED was responsible for coordinating the supervision and
monitoring of the reform program supported by this DPL series. MoFED liaised with the
appropriate staff in the ministries, departments, and agencies involved. The Bank carried
out periodic monitoring (every 6 months through 3 ISRs) and conducted a dialogue with
relevant line ministries and other stakeholders involved in the implementation of the
reforms through field missions and through staff based at the Bank’s country office.
MoFED, as the primary counterpart agency of these operations, was responsible for
providing the Bank with the information required to follow progress on all indicators and
monitor outcomes in the policy matrix. For example, during the preparation of the ISR of
September 2013, implementation was assessed as continuing at good pace across most
components, but identified various areas were pace should have been moving faster, such
as on social integration about the Number of people with less than a secondary school
certificate placed in Placement Training. It was also identified that the civil service reforms
were progressing at a lower paced than envisaged, reflecting the complexity of developing
a Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS). Likewise, during the ISR
of May 2014, various areas were also identified with delays and authorities were urged to
move forward with them.

19.     Utilization. The data and information provided by the MoFED on the status of the
indicators was received in a timely manner. These informed the ISRs and allowed for a
closer follow up on areas which were lagging behind. For example, during the preparation
                                              11
of the first ISR for DPL2 in October 2013, there were indications that the reforms in the
civil service were progressing at a slower pace than envisage. This allowed identifying
critical areas of focus to try moving forward the agenda at a faster pace.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

None expected at this time.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Overall relevance rating: Substantial

Objectives: High

20.     The medium term objectives of the DPL series are relevant to the current country
and global priorities and to the CPS Progress Report (approved on April 11, 2011) which
extended to FY2015 the CPS covering 2007 to 2013. The objectives are closely linked to
the current government’s program for 2012-15 (MNF) which main objective is to help
Mauritius become a high-income country over the next 10 years. A few examples of the
relevance of the objectives and their link to the MNF are the following: (a) strengthening
services to support and empower the most vulnerable continues to be one of the main pillars
to attain Prosperity for All (Pillar 1 of MNF) and Empowering People (Pillar 3 of MNF);
(b) improving human resource management in the public service is also a key factor
required to deliver high quality services (Pillar 4 and 5 of MNF); (c) Monitoring of SOEs
is essential to consolidate public finances envisioned in Pillar 3 of the MNF; and (d)
making the regulatory framework more transparent and more business friendly and
eliminating administrative bottlenecks to enhance competitiveness is crucial to moving
Mauritius to a high income economic level.

Design: Substantial

21.      The design of the PDO emphasizing public sector performance remains relevant to
Mauritius current priorities. The broader PDO was made more specific through its
indicators and targets. The prior actions selected were relevant and sequential to attaining
the medium term objectives. The design of the DPL took into account the potential risks
for the success of the reforms supported by the operation. Choosing to support government
reforms that are backed by a broad consensus and that will yield more immediate results
while laying the necessary foundations required to accelerate reforms in the future is the
most pragmatic and effective way to move the agenda forward. The political context at
time of the design of these operations was less enabling environment for deep reforms.
The withdrawal of the Mouvement socialiste militant (MSM) from its alliance with the
Labour Party and the Parti mauricien social démocrate to join the opposition created a less
satisfactory environment to a vigorous reform agenda at a time of extreme global economic

                                            12
uncertainty. Therefore, the team supported the government to implement reforms that were
feasible politically.

Implementation: Substantial

22.     The CPS Progress Report emphasized that this DPL series would be the Bank’s
main vehicle for supporting the government’s broad reform program. The MoFED was
responsible for monitoring the reforms, reporting progress and coordinating actions with
the various ministries, department and agencies involved. While in the past the MoFED
had strong mandate to implement the economic reform program, the evolving political
context translated into more decentralized reforms, which affected the pace of
implementation. Supervision of SOEs, which previously had been at the MoFED, was
moved to the newly created OPSG under the PMO. Carrying out trade regulatory
assessments, which originally was expected to be carried out by MoFED was finally
delegated to the Business Facilitation Task Force, which resulted in less traction in
implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

23.     The Program Development Objective achievements are summarized in the table
below. Progress was made in the eight DPL indicators, with 4 fully met, 1 partially met
and 2 not met. Therefore, the overall rating for the achievement of the development
objectives is rated moderately satisfactory.




                                          13
                                                         Table 2: DPL Indicators Results


                Indicators                    Baseline     Expected Results         Actual Results                     Comments
                                               (2011)
                                                           2012       2013                2013

Pillar I: Strengthening Services to Support and Empower The Most Vulnerable
a. Social Protection
1.      Number of people with less than a     912        1,000      1,200        3,280               Met. Technical and vocational training relating
secondary school certificate (SC) placed in                                                          to domestic workers, ICT, mechanics, welding
Placement for Training.                                                                              and several ones from the hotel industry had
                                                                                                     been provided to some 2,932 unemployed below
                                                                                                     SC Level while 348 have been placed in
                                                                                                     different sectors of the economy. This
                                                                                                     represents a remarkable achievement of the
                                                                                                     target which was overpassed by almost 300
                                                                                                     percent.
2.      Number of households in the           0          10,000     13,000       29,318              Met. Including the Housing Scheme (10,535
Social Register of Mauritius (SRM).                                                                  beneficiaries), the casting of roof program (233
                                                                                                     beneficiaries), the housing general and crèche
                                                                                                     programs of NEF (480 beneficiaries), and NS
                                                                                                     and RI of Ministry of Social Security (18,070
                                                                                                     beneficiaries). This represents an
                                                                                                     overachievement of the target by over 200
                                                                                                     percent.
b. Education
3.      Percentage of students entering       72.2%      73.2%      74.2%        64.1%               Not Met. The Prevocational Education system
Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational                                                             was extended to 4 years. Out of the 2434
education cycle.                                                                                     students who started in Year I in 2011, 1768
                                                                                                     (72.6%) completed Year III in 2013 and 1561
                                                                                                     (64.1%) completed Year IV in 2014. The drop-
                                                                                                     out was mainly due to the introduction of the
                                                                                                     dual mode of attendance in 2013 with
                                                                                                     significant number of students not able to adapt
                                                                                                     to the change and ceasing to attend the MITD
                                                                                                     Training Centers.

                                                                            14
Pillar II: Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes
4.        Number of regulations on which a  n/a        10            30          25 (as of May 2014)   Partially met (83%). Six items delisted from
decision is taken after review.                                                                        Import Control in January 2013, 3 items delisted
                                                                                                       from Export Control from December 2013.
                                                                                                       From March 2014, samples of controlled goods
                                                                                                       bearing HS Code 10.06, 11.01, 17.01 and 25.23
                                                                                                       weighting 10 kg or less exported for analysis or
                                                                                                       marketing purposes involving no transfer of
                                                                                                       funds do not require an import permit. The
                                                                                                       Cabinet has also decided to reduce the number
                                                                                                       of products requiring import and export permits
                                                                                                       by the Agricultural Marketing Board from 21 to
                                                                                                       6.
                Indicators                   Baseline       Expected Results         Actual Results                       Comments
                                              (2011)
                                                            2012          2013             2013
5.       Number of ministries involved in    0                       All         None                  Not met. The Mauritius Single Window system
issuing certificates/ permits/clearances                                                               has been extended by the development of a
connected with the national single window.                                                             National Single Window-OGA portal,
                                                                                                       integrating other Government Agencies, which
                                                                                                       caters for the online application, processing and
                                                                                                       approval of permits/authorizations related to
                                                                                                       import and export. Twelve agencies involved in
                                                                                                       the processing and issue of trade-related
                                                                                                       permits/clearances have been identified to join
                                                                                                       the OGA Portal. The first agency (Film
                                                                                                       Classification Board) was tested on a pilot basis
                                                                                                       in December 2014. It is expected that a full
                                                                                                       implementation will only be launched by mid-
                                                                                                       2015.
6.        The amount of time needed to       6 weeks    3 weeks      3 weeks     2 weeks               Met. In 2011, all operators were allowed 6
settle the Customs administrative penalty                                                              weeks to settle their Customs administrative
amount.                                                                                                penalty. Now, the allowed period is 2 weeks
                                                                                                       and already 71% of the Customs Offense
                                                                                                       Reports (COR)’s filled were settled within this
                                                                                                       period. For cases not settled within the initial

                                                                            15
                                                                                                   14 days period, a final reminder is sent to the
                                                                                                   offender with an additional 14 day period. 16%
                                                                                                   of the cases have been settled after the issue of
                                                                                                   the final reminder After the lapse of the
                                                                                                   additional 14 days; the unsettled cases (13%)
                                                                                                   where the offenders have not responded to the
                                                                                                   agreement for compounding are referred to the
                                                                                                   Legal Services Department of the Mauritius
                                                                                                   Revenue Authority for legal proceedings.
Pillar III: Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service and Monitoring of SOE Performance
a. Civil Service
7.       Gradual reduction of processing       Processi   Processin    Processin    Consolidation of           Met. The duration of the amendment of
time relating to the prescription of schemes   ng time:   g time: 5    g time: 4    Schemes of Service         Schemes of Service now stands between 3 and 4
of service and in the number of schemes of     6 months   months       months       piloted in MCSAR in        months, with some cases being amended in
service.                                                                            2012;                      about a month.

                                               Number     Consolida    Consolida    Processing time: 3.5       Consolidation of Schemes of Service has been
                                               of         tion of      tion of      months in June 2013;       piloted in MCSAR in 2012 and extended to
                                               Schemes    Schemes      Schemes                                 other ministries reducing the total amount of
                                               of         of Service   of Service   Consolidation of           Scheme of Service by around 14 percent
                                               Service    piloted in   extended     Schemes of Service         compared to the amount in 2011.The total
                                               above      MCSAR        to other     extended to other          number of Scheme of Service for civil servants
                                               2,500                   sectors of   sectors of civil service   has been reduced to about 2,300 by February
                                                                       civil        in 2013                    2014 and is estimated to have been reduced to
                                                                       service                                 2,156 at the end of 2014.
b. State-owned Enterprises

8        Number of SOEs included in the        0          5            25           14 included but not        Partially met. 57 SOEs have been registered in
quarterly (amended in DPL2 to annually)                                             published                  the PIMS database and 14 Performance Reports
performance report prepared by the OPSG                                                                        have been completed for those which have
and published on the OPSG website.                                                                             provided total inputs in the system up to
                                                                                                               December 2013. The annual performance report
                                                                                                               prepared by the OPSG were not published
                                                                                                               because it was found that these reports may
                                                                                                               contain sensitive information about these
                                                                                                               organizations and their clearances are needed
                                                                                                               before releasing the contents of these reports.


                                                                             16
Pillar I: Strengthening Services to Support and Empower the Most Vulnerable

24.     Social protection. The government’s medium-term objective is to transform its
social safety net into a more effective and efficient system to empower the poor and
vulnerable to rise out of poverty, objective supported by the DPL series. Given the political
difficulties that might be involved in any attempt to reform untargeted subsidies and
benefits, the government has focused first on reforming its targeted programs. The
government began by restructuring the National Empowerment Foundation (NEF) with
support from the first operation in this DPL series. The restructuring has progressed well.

25.     The Placement and Training is one of the three pillars of the NEF. The program
aims at enhancing the employability of unemployed persons in unskilled and semi-skilled
jobs through the provision of training and placement services. To this send, the NEF has
been working with a number of organizations such as the Mauritius Institute of Training
and Development, the National Computer Board, the Mauritius Institute of Education and
Fashion and Design Institute to dispense vocational and technical training to those below
Secondary (SC) Level with poor academic achievement so that they acquire technical
knowledge and expertise to enhance their chance of employability and/or to start their own
micro business. The Program Based Budget (PBB) indicator of the NEF for 2013 based
on the Budget item “Number of persons below the School Certificate level, placed and
trained” was set at 1200. This was also identified as the target indicator 1for the DPL.
During 2013, several technical and vocational training related to domestic workers, ITC,
mechanics, welding and several ones for the hotel industry had been provided to some
2,932 unemployed below SC Level while 348 have been placed in different sectors of the
economy. The total number for placed/trained was 3,280 as of June 2014, well above the
DPL target.

26.     To this end, as a basis for improving the monitoring of both Social Aid and NEF
programming as well as improving coordination and increasing impact, the government
launched the Social Registry of Mauritius (SRM), another prior action in the first operation
in this series. The SRM is an integrated management information system that provides
comprehensive information on clients of social assistance programs with the aim of
increasing coordination among the many different programs. The government has been
consolidating the realignment of the NEF and bringing new and existing programs into the
SRM.

27.      There are substantial new social protection programs using the Social Registry of
Mauritius for identifying beneficiaries, including the Housing scheme (10,535
beneficiaries), the casting of roof program (233 beneficiaries), the housing general and
crèche programs of the NEF (480 beneficiaries), and National Solidarity (NS) and Reform
Institutions (RI) of the Ministry of Social Security (18,070 beneficiaries). In total, as of
June 2014, there were 29,319 households identified in the SRM, surpassing the target of
13,000 under indicator 2.



                                             17
28.     Education. The DPL supported policy actions in pre-vocational education for
attaining the government’s objective to improve learning outcomes and ensuring access to
good quality general secondary education for all, especially the most disadvantaged.
Learning opportunities for those who fail the Certificate of primary Education (CPE) are
limited to a pre-vocational stream, which has not been able to meet the needs of the latter.

29.     A comprehensive reform of the pre-vocational stream is expected to facilitate the
transition of students from school to work and to increase the number of pre-vocational
graduates who progress to technical and vocational education and training (TVET).
Supported by the first operation under this DPL series, government’s approval was
obtained for a broad reform that, by increasing retention and enhancing the quality of pre-
vocational education, was expected to equip future graduates of pre-vocational education
with the basic skills needed to enter the labor market or continue with further education in
the TVET stream. The implementation of the reforms began at the start of the 2012
academic year.

30.     However, fundamental changes have been implemented in the education system
since the DPL was approved. The government is advocating 9 year basic education, which
may result in dropping the pre-vocational stream. This might influence the sustainability
of the reforms supported by the DPL. In parallel, additional changes have been made to the
Pre-vocational Education (PVE) system, mainly the extension of program duration from
three to four years. In the context of the implementation of the New Strategy for PVE in
2012, a new curriculum was introduced in Year I and gradually phased in for those who
were attending Year II. This first cohort reached Year IV in December 2014.

31.     Given these changes, the Government’s own monitoring and evaluation system will
use a revised indicator to reflect achievement of indicator 3 of the DPL: “Percentage of
students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational education cycle”, which
MoEHR proposes to be “Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-
vocational education cycle (now referring to the fourth year of prevocational cycle) as the
year of completion and not the third year as for the previous years”. The first cohort in
Year IV completed PVE in 2014 and not 2013 as previously measured. Out of the 2434
students who started in Year I in 2011, 1768 (72.6%) completed Year III in 2013 and 1561
(64.1%) completed Year IV in 2014. The drop-out was mainly due to the introduction of
the dual mode of attendance in 2013 with significant number of students not able to adapt
to the change and ceasing to attend the MITD Training Centers. Corrective actions are
being taken for the subsequent cohorts.




                                            18
Pillar II: Streamlining Trade Regulation and Processes

32.      Trade liberalization has been key in increasing Mauritius competitiveness. The
government’s objective is to continue Mauritius’ transformation into an open, low tax, and
business-friendly economy by further reforming the regulatory framework and removing
administrative bottlenecks. In Mauritius, regulations are increasing as a result of society’s
demands to regulate markets and control health and environmental hazards. These
regulations play an important social role and fulfill key policy objectives, but if they are
not properly designed, they can raise transaction costs (in particular cross-border ones) and
production costs by making imported products more expensive or by generating red tape.
A World Bank report on trade and labor completed in 2010 1 identified the main weaknesses
in the regulatory environment in Mauritius as: (i) a lack of a systematic approach to
assessing the costs and benefits of regulations; (ii) a duplication of requirements and a lack
of coordination among many ministries and agencies; (iii) excessive reliance on ex-ante
inspections rather than random and targeted ex-post controls; and (iv) the absence of any
procedures allowing businesses to appeal against regulatory rulings. With the support of
this DPL series, the government adopted the following measures: (i) streamlining existing
regulations and systematically ensuring that the design of new regulations is conducive to
business; (ii) increasing administrative efficiency in trade processes by using IT; and
(iii) enhancing the effectiveness of the administrative appeals and penalties of the
Mauritius Customs service.

Streamlining existing regulations and systematically ensuring that the design of new
regulations is conducive to business

33.     The authorities have made progress streamlining regulations and further
eliminating unnecessary permits, in addition to the 6 items delisted from Import Control
with effect since January 3, 2013. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration
and International Trade division, also delisted 3 items from Export Control with effect from
December 10, 2013. Moreover, as from March 15, 2014, samples of controlled goods
bearing HS Code 10.06, 11.01, 17.01 and 25.23 weighing 10 kilograms or less exported
for analysis or marketing purposes involving no transfer of funds do not require an import
permit. The number of regulations on which decision was taken after review has been
reduced to 25 as of May 2014, still slightly below the target of 30 as per indicator 4.

34.     However, the government commitment in this area is also reinvigorated with the
up-coming Accelerated Program of Economic Integration (APEI) regional DPO. As a prior
action, the Cabinet has taken a decision to reduce the number of products requiring import
and export permits by the Agricultural Marketing Board from 21 to 6. Moving forward,
the Government will eliminate as part of APEI DPO2 and DPO3 the following NTBs: (i)
import approvals for fish to be done by only Ministry of Health and (ii) remove NTB on


1
 World Bank Report No 53322-MU, Mauritius Enhancing and Sustaining Competitiveness- Policy Notes
on Trade and Labor, December 3, 2010.


                                               19
wheat flour. The Government will also eliminate as part of APEI DPO3 5 NTBs identified
through the codification exercise.

Promoting administrative efficiency in trade processes by using IT

35.   The specific reforms supported by the DPL series were: (i) Cabinet approval of a
Memorandum detailing the establishment of a trade portal and (ii) adoption by the Steering
Committee for Development and Implementation of a functional model for the single
window.

36.     The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade have
operationalized the trade portal, which was launched in August 2013 and can be accessed
at http://www.mauritiustrade.mu/en.         The portal increases the transparency and
accessibility to all regulations listed by national tariff line for importers and exporters, as
well as information relating to import and export procedures in Mauritius, opportunities
existing on the regional and international markets under various agreements Mauritius
signed (see them at: http://www.mauritiustrade.mu/en/trade-agreements), among others.

37.     The Mauritius Single Window system has been enhanced by the development of a
National Single Window-OGA portal, integrating other Government Agencies, which
caters for the online application, processing and approval for permits/authorizations related
to import and export. Twelve agencies involved in the processing and issue of trade-related
permits/clearances have been identified to join the OGA Portal. The estimated date for the
first agency (Film Censor Board) to be tested, on a pilot basis was delayed to December
2014. It is expected that other agencies will be linked in a phase like approach in 2015.
The Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Protection will be the first agency to be hooked
on the OGA Portal in 2015. Also, the detailed study (technical aspect) to link the Ministry
of Commerce and Consumer Protection to the OGA Portal has started since mid-November
2014. However, indicator 5, which calls for all agencies to be connected with the national
single window, was not met. The initial design seemed too optimistic, the customs
department lacked the institutional capacity and status to coordinate other ministries and
IT issues as well as a parallel process to review and streamline administrative processes
proved much complex than anticipated. However, the government continues to develop the
single window system and a revised timetable has been agreed among all stakeholders.

38.     In order to optimize on the benefits of the Single Window, the business processes
of the 12 agencies have been examined with a view to streamlining them. Furthermore,
time limit for the issue of a permit has been fixed as from the effective date of receipt of
the application. Further, legislative amendments required for the implementation of the
Single Window have been included in the Economic and Financial Measures
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 2013 and shall come into force on a date to be fixed by
Proclamation. Additional Regulations have been prepared, to facilitate the implementation
of OGA portal and the streamlined procedures. In addition, comprehensive and clear
guidelines, which will be made available on websites to facilitate compliance by operators,
are being finalized. The Government has stated that it intends for the enhanced Single

                                              20
Window to also be linked to the Government e-payment gateway.

39.     The government commitment in this area is also reinvigorated with the up-coming
Accelerated Program of Economic Integration (APEI) regional DPO. As a prior action for
this year for the APEI, the trade portal has been put in place, increasing transparency by
presenting all relevant trade information. Moving forward, as part of APEI, DPO2
established the national single window.

Enhancing the effectiveness of the Mauritius Customs administrative appeals and
penalties

40.     The specific reforms supported by the DPL series were: (i) Formulation of policy
paper (by MOFED) on the legal framework, institutional set-up and operation of an
appropriate internal appeal mechanism within Mauritius Revenue Authority (MRA)-
Customs that would be consistent with the requirements of the Revised Kyoto Convention
and (ii) the government adopts a prescribed schedule of administrative penalties for
Customs. The internal appeal mechanism has been set up and the prescribed schedule of
administrative penalties for Customs has been institutionalized.

41.     With regards to the Schedule of administrative penalties the Finance
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2012 amended Section 162 of the Customs Act 1988 to:
(i) Enable the Director-General with the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions, to
compound any offences committed by any person against any Customs Laws and is
prescribed as a compoundable offence; and (ii) Regulations was made under Section 163
of the Customs Act for the introduction of the Customs (Compoundable Offence and
Compounding Amount) Regulations 2012 which came into effect on 01.01.13. For the
proper implementation of Section 162, an agreement has been made between the Mauritius
Revenue Authority and the Director Public Prosecutions.

42.     As a result of the enhancement in the compounding process more on the spot
settlement for minor offences committed by passengers where the amount of duty, excise
duty and taxes below the threshold of Rs 7,500 have taken place: They increased from 260
cases raised and 132 cases settled in 2012 to 623 cases raised and 408 cases settled in 2013.
An increase in transparency, predictability, efficiency and effectiveness of the
compounding mechanism is in line with the vision of the MRA and has been accepted by
the economic operators as there is rarely dispute with respect to the compounding terms.
Moving forward, Section 162 of the Customs Act 1988 and the Customs (Compoundable
Offence and Compounding Amount) Regulations 2012 are being reviewed based on
representations made by Economic operators.

43.    In 2011, offenders were allowed 6 weeks to settle their Customs administrative
penalty. In 2013, that period was reduced to 2 weeks. In 2013, 1,073 Customs Offense
Reports (COR’s) were filled and the actual time taken to settle the penalty is shown below:



                                             21
NO of COR’s Filed - 1,073
COR’s settled at Source- 408 (38%)
COR’s settled within 2 weeks - 355 (33%)
COR’s settled after 2 weeks - 173 (16%)
Unsettled COR’s - 137 (13%)

44.     From the figures above, in 2013, 71% of the COR’s filled were settled within 2
weeks and16% were settled within 28 days, making the average of settled cases within 3
weeks, which is the target period for indicator 6. For cases not settled within the initial 14
days period, a final reminder was sent to the offender with an additional 14 day period.
(16% of the cases have been settled after the issue of the final reminder). After the lapse
of the additional 14 days, the unsettled cases (13%) where the offenders have not responded
to the agreement for compounding were referred to the Legal Services Department of the
Mauritius Revenue Authority for legal proceedings.

Pillar III: Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service &
Monitoring of SOE Performance

45.     The public sector plays a pivotal role in the Mauritian economy as it represents
around 25 percent of GDP and 25 percent of all investment. The central government
comprises 25 ministries and some 50 departments and is the biggest single employer in the
country with around 53,000 public servants (representing 10 percent of all employment
and 4.1 percent of the total population). There has also been a proliferation of state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) in Mauritius in recent years. To date, there are some 150 SOEs and
parastatals supervised by different line ministries and departments, employing around
20,000 people or 1.6 percent of the total population. This compounds the challenges of
reforming the role of the state and strengthening public sector management. This DPL
series aimed at increasing the efficiency for the public sector by supporting the streamlining
of the civil service management and the strengthening of the coordination and monitoring
of SOEs to increase their efficiency and transparency.

46.     Civil service. The reform efforts focused on three main areas: (i) the development
of a civil service strategy and a medium-term action plan for reform; (ii) a review of the
schemes of service to ease some cumbersome administrative constraints; and (iii) the
design and implementation of the Human Resource Management Information System
(HRMIS) to generate key information to monitor and manage the civil service, to identify
reform goals, and to monitor the implementation of future reforms. Progress has been
made in these three areas since the first operation in this DPL series was approved, but it
has been incremental.

47.     The duration of the amendment of schemes of services now stands at an average of
3.5 months. These measures are in line with the expected results anticipated in the DPL
operation (i.e. gradual reduction of processing time relating to the prescription of schemes
of service to four months by the end of 2013 according to the first component of indicator
7). The total number of schemes of service for civil servants were reduced to about 2,300

                                             22
by February 2014 and it is estimated to have been further reduced to 2,156 by the end of
2014. Also consolidation of schemes of service (second part of indicator 7) has been
worked out on a pilot case by MCSAR for the various grades comprising the Human
Resource Management Cadre which falls under the responsibility of the Ministry. The new
model proposed constitutes a major change in the current practice in as much as it has been
a long established practice to have a single scheme of service for each grade. The
Federations of Unions have shown reluctance with the new model as it requires a
streamlined approval process that they sense can undermine staff rights which are delaying
implementation. Although the target indicator 7 has been only partially achieved the
reduction of processing time to the prescription of scheme of services is a substantial
improvement to accelerate hiring processes in the public sector.

48.      Regarding the preparation of the Human Resources Management Information
System (HRMIS), it has suffered delays. Initially, the HRMIS was to be implemented on
a pilot basis in only 5 or 6 selected Ministries/Departments. However, after reconsideration,
it has been decided that all Ministries/Departments be involved in the implementation
process right from the beginning of the implementation phase. On certain technical or
legal/policy matters, MCSAR has to rely on inputs/clearances of others to be able to move
ahead. In view of the fact that every Ministry/Department has its own sectoral commitment,
implementation of the HRMIS constitutes an additional workload to be attended to with
the same amount of human resources. These are unpredictable constraints which arise in
the course of the implementation process.

49.     Moving forward, on-going initiatives such as an electronic system that will be part
of the HRMIS and a handbook for drafting schemes of service and related training on the
matter, will help to reduce the process required to amend schemes of service, though not
drastically. Without additional changes in current operation modalities, it will be difficult
for MSCAR to further accelerate the amendment of schemes of service, particularly given
the need to secure the collaboration with a large number of unions, grouped in three major
federations.

50.     State-owned enterprises. Significant efforts have been made over the past decade
to reduce the fiscal burden that state-owned enterprises (SOEs) represent. The government
for some time has intended to strengthen the financial position of the largest SOEs while
increasing its focus on improving service delivery. In 2010, the government established
the Office of Public Sector Governance (OPSG) under the aegis of the Prime Minister’s
Office to provide leadership, coordination, and cohesion to the implementation and
monitoring of the SOE reform initiative. The OPSG launched the Parastatals Information
Management System (PIMS) and is implementing a comprehensive performance
monitoring framework to improve corporate governance. The OPSG prepared plans for
reforming underperforming SOEs and presented them to the Cabinet for endorsement.
Therefore, the OPSG took a cautious incremental approach while learning in the process
and restructured only two SOEs in 2012 and learn lessons from this experience that could
be applied to subsequent restructurings. This was in line with the objectives of this DPL
series and was also aligned with the requirements for the EU budget support for 2012,

                                             23
which specified two pilot SOEs to be restructured in 2012 2.

51.     Since 2012, the OPSG has focused on a total of 7 restructuring plans for SOEs (2
in 2012 and 5 in 2013), with 4 more to be completed by the end of 2014. These restructuring
plans include the milestone for achieving a 5 percent return on their capital investment.
The plans have been approved by Cabinet and published on the SOE website, as agreed by
both the Bank and the EU. During 2013, the EU has provided technical assistance to OPSG
towards the upgrading of the reporting in the Performance Information Management
System (PIMS). The PIMS database currently contains annual data for 20 SOEs for the
past three years. The system is being upgraded to enable the graphical display of forecasts
of indicators for the next five years from trends detected from three year historical data.
These reports will be provided to the SOEs for self-assessment. OPSG has published
annual reports for 2011, 2012 and 2013. The report shows that restructuring plans were
prepared and approved by Cabinet for five SOEs in 2013. However, the annual
performance report were not published because it was found that these reports may contain
sensitive information about these organizations and their clearances are needed before
releasing the contents of these reports. Fifty seven SOEs have been registered for PIMS
and 14 Performance Reports have been completed for those which have provided total
input in the system up to Dec 2013. Since Indicator 8.called for 5 SOEs to be completed
and published in 2012 and 25 in 2013, this result was only partially met.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Ratings: Moderately Satisfactory

52.    With the program remaining highly relevant in terms of its objectives, substantially
relevant in terms of design, and implementation, and moderately satisfactory achievement
of objectives, the overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

53.       The DPL series was expected to reduce poverty in the following three ways:
(i) social protection programs would become more effective at protecting the poor and
helping them to rise out of poverty; (ii) widening access to education would help the most
vulnerable to find higher-skilled, better paying jobs in the labor market; and
(iii) streamlining non-tariff barriers (NTBs) would help to create jobs as NTBs


2
  Although the indicative trigger under DPL 1 required that reform plans should be prepared for six SOEs,
the Bank considered approval of the two restructuring plans reasonable given the importance of these first
restructurings in engendering political support for SOE reform and for demonstrating the importance of
restructuring other SOEs. In addition, while the DPL 2 trigger presented in DPL 1 called for the preparation
of restructuring plans, the trigger proposed in DPL2 called for the approval of the plans by the Cabinet.
Finally, the trigger was aligned with that of the EU’s budget support operation.


                                                    24
disproportionally affect SMEs (which are major creators of employment in Mauritius)
because they lacked the financial means to mitigate their cost. The progress that has been
made in implementing the reforms supported by this DPL series would suggest that some
of these benefits have started to be realized, although it would be hard to attribute the
improvements directly to this DPO series.

54.     Progress in the attainment of the expected target indicators in this area suggests that
the government is advancing in making the social safety net a more effective, efficient and
sustainable system that provides a coherent set of safety net services to empower the poor
and vulnerable to rise out of poverty. The social protection programs have contributed to
poverty reduction increasingly over the years. Comparison of simulated poverty impact in
2007 and 2012 indicated that in 2007 the social protection programs were associated with
8.5 percentage points of poverty reduction while in 2012 this increased to 9.5 percentage
points. Absolute poverty measured by the poverty line based on consumption has fallen
from 8.5 percent in 2007 to 6.9 percent in 2012. Expenditures of the bottom 40 percent of
the population has been growing at around 2 percent annually between 2007 and 2012.
However, more needs to be done as inequality has been broadening with the Gini
coefficient increasing from 34.2 in 2007 to 36.6 in 2012.

55.     Simplifying barriers to trade has further expanded opportunities to create jobs in
the past. Trade regulatory and administrative costs are a bigger burden for SMEs than for
large enterprises. Therefore, streamlining non-tariff measures (NTMs) and eliminating
non-tariff barriers (NTBs) were both expected to have a positive impact on SMEs, which
in turn would translate into additional employment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

56.      The DPL was instrumental in advancing reforms that impacted the long term
capacity and institutional development of Mauritius. First, the Bank support of the issuance
of a new organizational and staffing chart for the National Empowerment Foundation
(NEF), prior action one, which was approved by the Ministry of Social Integration and
Economic Empowerment (MoSIEE), reflected the new institutional structure of the NEF,
and separated the departments for: (a) child and family development; (b) community
empowerment; (c) placement and training; and, (d) monitoring and evaluation. Second, as
a basis for improving the monitoring of both Social Aid and NEF programming as well as
improving coordination and increasing impact, the government launched the Social
Registry of Mauritius (SRM), another prior action in the first operation in this series. The
SRM is an integrated management information system that provides comprehensive
information on existing and potential clients of social assistance programs with the aim of
increasing coordination among the many different programs. The government now intends
to consolidate the realignment of the NEF and to continue to bring new and existing
programs into the SRM. Third, the operations support of the actions undertaken by the
Office of Public Sector Governance (OPSG) advanced its mandate to provide leadership,
coordination, and cohesion to the implementation and monitoring of the SOE reform
initiative (see paragraph 51). And forth, prior action 4 supported the establishment of the
join public-private Business Facilitation Task Force, with the mandate to review existing

                                              25
systems and processes, and streamlining regulations, governing trade investments, with a
view to removing bottlenecks and creating a business-friendly environment.

57.     The DPL has also been important in deepening and further integrating trade reforms
into the policy agenda. Building on the DPL, Mauritius continues to streamline trade
regulations and processes by eliminating non-tariff barriers such as import and export
permits and increasing transparency for trade transactions. Mauritius established the Trade
Portal whose cabinet approval was supported by the DPL as part of its commitments under
APEI and has committed to establish a Single Electronic Window as part of APEI as well.
Commitments to improving risk management processes at customs also advance the
agenda of streamlining trade regulations and processes that had been supported under the
DPL. The strong trade policy agenda in Mauritius has also contributed to Mauritius
launching the Accelerated Program for Economic Integration (APEI) in 2012 together with
Malawi, Mozambique, Seychelles, and Zambia. The initiative aims to reduce trade costs
and increase trade and investment flows within the region by breaking with the status quo
of slow reform implementation and by implementing regional reforms and addressing
common challenges collectively.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

58.    This DPL was also positive in maintaining the policy dialogue with the authorities
and opening the avenue for additional dialogue in the public sector (i.e. subsequent M&E
support).

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Ratings: Moderate

59.     The risk that development outcomes will not be maintained or realized is moderate.
It is mostly associated with the country’s vulnerabilities to an uncertain global economic
climate, a slowdown in the momentum of reforms, and limited institutional capacity within
sector ministries to lead and implement reforms.

60.    Macroeconomic stability risk to uncertain global economic climate. Global
economic uncertainties always represent a significant threat to a small open economy such
as Mauritius. However, the government has succeeded to partially contain the impact of
the global economic slowdown in 2011 and 2012, and in 2013, it maintained a stable
macroeconomic environment. The government has been consolidating the fiscal deficit
and reducing public debt. Current account deficits, although high, have been adequately
financed, mostly by high FDI and inflows to the financial sector. The small estimated
recovery in the forecasted GDP growth on the euro zone for 2014, will impact positively
the Mauritian economy. Tourist arrivals from January to August 2014 have already

                                            26
increased by 4.6 percent when compared with the same period last year and have
diversified. However, the government needs to continue to mitigate this risk through an
adequate mix of macro policies. Fiscal policy should continue to target gradual public debt
reduction, monetary policy should continue to be broadly accommodative, and markets
should continue to diversify.

61.     Political risks that might affect the pace of the government’s reform program.
The government is currently developing its Blue Print Strategy which is aimed at achieving
high income status in the next ten years. However, many of the new reforms will have
redistributive effects, meaning that they sometimes eliminate rents, subsidies, and
privileges of certain groups with vested interests. In addition, legislative elections took
place in December 2014. Therefore, the Bank has supported reforms for which consensus
exists as a means to assist the government to put in place building blocks to expedite the
reform, program over the medium term. Going forward, the Strategic Country Diagnostic
(SCD) that is currently under preparation, in partnership with national authorities and other
stakeholders, is expected to aid the government in defining its engagement with the Bank
and possibly inform their own reform agenda. Furthermore, Mauritius has consistently
ranked among the highest countries in terms of public sector management and governance.
This is critical as an enabling environment to manage effectively the balance between
growth and redistributive policies.

62.     Limited institutional capacity within sector ministries to lead and implement
reforms. These institutional constraints and the potential political constraints can limit the
effectiveness and progress of reforms. While previous reforms were led and coordinated
by MoFED, the current reforms are being overseen in most cases by the sector ministries.
The Bank has help the government and will continue to do so by involving specialized
Bank staff in the dialogue on selected areas and by encouraging a public debate by
publishing articles and technical notes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Ratings: Satisfactory

63.    The program supported the government’s program for 2012-15, Moving the Nation
Forward. It built on the reforms supported by the previous DPL series. It continued to
focus on reforms that could be completed in the short term while building the necessary
foundations for broader reform in the medium term.

64.    The operation was underpinned by strong analytical foundations. Prior to the start
of the preparation of this programmatic series, the Bank, the government, and other
partners carried out a significant number of AAA work (see Paragraph 11). Extensive
dialogue with Mauritian authorities and development partners were carried out during the

                                             27
preparation of the program, which together with the analytical background guided the
designer of the operation.

65.     The DPL and the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) (2007-2013) for Mauritius
(developed jointly by the World Bank and the Government of Mauritius) and the
government’s reform program are closely linked. The Progress Report approved in 2011
extended the CPS to FY15 to align it with the electoral cycle in Mauritius. The CPS
Progress Report emphasized that this DPL series would be the Bank’s main vehicle for
supporting the government’s broad reform program. Both shared the same overreaching
strategic objectives of increasing competitiveness while protecting the vulnerable. The
DPL series was also closely aligned to the Bank’s Africa Region Strategy. Streamlining
regulations and processes to increase competitiveness and employment creation, while
reform of social protection systems to increase the amount of support provide to the most
vulnerable were at the center of the regional strategy and DPL series. Furthermore, the
DPL emphasized the importance of working together with other partners to produce joint
analysis (for example, with UNDP on social protection) and built consensus on ongoing
reforms.

66.       Other examples of donor collaboration were:
      •   The PEFA assessment of Mauritius prepared jointly with the IMF, UNDP and
          EU.
      •   The EU’s 10th European Development Fund (EDF) Country Strategy Paper for the
          period 2008-2013. The EU and WB Collaborated on the joint diagnostic and
          results matrix for the World Bank CPS. In addition to the EU traditional areas of
          support, the 2013-15 three year budget allocated funds to issues related to SOEs
          and social protection, common areas of WB support.
      •   The Africa Competitiveness Report, the Climate Assessment Report, and the
          Country Memorandum update prepared in collaboration with the Africa
          Development Bank (AfDB). In addition, the policy reforms supported by the
          AfDB to mitigate the downturn of economic growth and employment while
          improving trade competitiveness, the health sector, ITC, and public financial
          management were aligned with the Bank’s DPL series.
      •   The WB collaboration with the UNDP for the preparation of their 2009-2012 and
          2013-2016 Country Program. The later focuses on planning and resource
          management, inclusive growth, social inclusion and empowerment and on energy
          an environment, some of which were areas addressed in the DPL series.

67.     The design of the operation applied lesson learned from the previous DPL series.
These lessons included the need to ensure that: (i) the DPL was aligned with the
government’s priorities and leadership; (ii) there was strong coordination with
development partners; and (iii) the loan was designed to include an appropriate degree of
flexibility to allow the government to respond to emerging crises as well as for the reform
program to evolve over time. The dialogue with the government of Mauritius has gradually
built a consensus about reforms and has helped participants to articulate country priorities
linked to clear and achievable outcomes. Leadership and political commitment from the

                                             28
government complemented by strong institutional capacity in designing and implementing
the policy reform agenda have been the critical factors in the success of this and previous
operations. The series was designed in collaboration with development partners to
reinforce the government’s program implementation. The success of the previous DPL
was to a larger extent because of the harmonized policy dialogue among development
partners. The same was done for this operation to ensure its success. In addition, the
operation was designed with enough flexibility to allow the government to be able to adjust
and respond to the country’s challenging needs, if required. It followed the Good Practice
Principles of Conditionality3 when designing the prior actions and outcome indicators.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Ratings: Moderately Satisfactory

68.     Supervisions focused on monitoring the development objectives and outcome
indicators. The supervision of the first operation coincided with the preparation of the
second one. Supervisions recorded progress in the reform program. There were three
implementation supervision reports, two of which very detailed and served as the basis to
evaluate this series. In addition, there was continued dialogue with counterparts to move
the agenda forward and identify bottlenecks to it successful implementation. The timely
and reliable dissemination of macroeconomic data by the government made easier the
constant monitoring of the macro situation which aided the follow up of some indicators.
The detailed ISR reports were used by the MoFED to monitor the reform and take
corrective actions to move the reform forward.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Ratings: Moderately Satisfactory

69.     Given that the Bank performance for quality at entry is rated satisfactory and quality
of supervision is moderately satisfactory, the overall Bank Performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.




3
  The five Good Practice Principle on Conditionality are: (a) Reinforce ownership; (b) Agree up- front with
the government and other financial partners on a coordinated accountability framework; (c) Customize the
accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country circumstances; (d) Choose only
actions critical to achieving results as conditions for disbursement; and (e), Conduct transparent progress
reviews conducive to predictability and performance-based financial support.

                                                    29
5.2 Borrower Performance 4

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.     The Government’s performance was moderately satisfactory. The MoFED was the
coordinating body for the reform program. They were responsible for coordinating the
supervision and monitoring of the reforms supported by this DPL series. They provided
the Bank with the information required to follow progress on all indicators and monitor
outcomes in the policy matrix. The overall progress in the actual results of the DPL
indicators reflects the commitment of the government to advance reforms in a timely
manner, within a less political environment for reforms.

71.     As anticipated at the time of DPL1 approval, the pace of the reform in Mauritius
was slow due to technical and political complexities of the necessary public sector reforms.
Some of them related to IT systems reflected too high expectations and in general have
progressed with delays (i.e. the Human Resources Management Information System and
single window. Policy reforms continue but at a slower pace in anticipation of elections
that need to provide a reinvigorated mandate for reforms.
(a) Government Performance (see Borrower Performance)

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance (see Borrower Performance)

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance (see Borrower
Performance)


6. Lessons Learned

72.    There were three main lessons learned from these operations that could aid future
ones and could have wide general application.

Lesson1: In an environment where the reform agenda was slowing down the team
focused on areas that had more consensus to move forward. The DPL focused on
achieving feasible reforms in the near term while laying the necessary building blocks to
accelerate reforms in the medium term. Because public sector reforms would require
consensus between diverse stakeholders and would affect the political equilibrium, the
government continued to take a strategically incremental approach. Moreover, many of
these new public sector reforms would have redistributive effects, and the government
would need to reach a minimum level of consensus on them due to its social impact. This




4
  According to the ICR Guidelines, if Government and Implementing Agency are indistinguishable, as it is
in this case, only one overall rating is necessary for this section.


                                                   30
DPL aimed to support reforms where consensus existed while putting in place the
building blocks necessary to expedite the broader reform program in the medium term.

Lesson 2: The balanced approach in the preparation of the operations between Social
Protections and Competitiveness translated in positive results as provided the
government with a set of reforms that reinforced each other (i.e. impact of some trade
reforms might be partially compensated by reforms on the social protection system).The
government, and the DPL series, sought to strike a balance between raising trade
competitiveness and ensuring that a more efficient social protection system help to
alleviate the impact on the most vulnerable.


Lesson 3: The loan was designed to include a certain degree of flexibility to allow the
government to adapt the reform program as needed over time. For example, in the
education sector, changes were made to the Pre-vocational Education (PVE) system,
mainly the extension of program duration and therefore, indicator 3 is now being assessed
as of the end of December 2014. Likewise, the number of SOEs included in the quarterly
(changed in DPL2 to annually).




                                           31
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

73.     The Borrower received a copy of the draft document and responded jointly to both
this ICR and the ICR for the Private Sector DPO series. The authorities concurred with
the overall gist of the reports. They agreed that the results and monitoring framework
jointly designed by the World Bank and the Government were well aligned with the budget
cycle and policy actions were reasonable and enabled strong sector ministry accountability.
They agreed that the lessons learned were useful and should be incorporated in the future
when other such operations are designed (see Annex D below for the official comments
received on June 2015 from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development).

(b) Cofinanciers
    Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
    None received




                                            32
   Annex A. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
P128140 - MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL
                                                                              Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                    Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Lorraine R. Blank          HQ Consultant ST                      GSPDR
Olivier Cadot              Consultant                            GFMDR
Fadila Caillaud            Sr Education Economist                GEDDR
Mona E. Haddad             Practice Manager                      GTCDR
Peter Farup Ladegaard      Lead Private Sector Development       GGODR
Jasmilla Luximon           E T Temporary                         AFMMU
Mariem Malouche            Senior Economist                      GTCDR
Khoudijah Bibi             Private Sector Development
                                                                  GTCDR
Maudarbocus-Boodoo         Specialist
Emma S. Mistiaen           Social Protection Specialist          GSPDR
Jacques Morisset           Program Leader                        AFCE1
Rafael Munoz Moreno        Senior Economist                      GMFDR
Phillippe George Pereira
                           Senior Social Protection Economist     GSPDR
Guimaraes Leite
Sawkut Rojid               Economist                            AFTP1 - HIS
Uma Subramanian            Lead Private Sector Development      CICTI - HIS
William David Wiseman      Program Leader                         ECCU6
Chunlin Zhang              Lead Private Sector Development        GTCDR
Supervision


(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                          USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                       89.3                  529,122.6
Supervision /ICR                              11.9                   39,575.8
Total                                       101.2                   568,698.4




                                           33
                 Annex B. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                 34
                 Annex C. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                       35
Annex D. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              36
37
      Annex E. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
None received.




                                     38
                       Annex F. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank, Program Document for the Public Sector Reform Development Policy
Loan, Report No. 61571-MU, February 27, 2012.

World Bank, Program Document for the Second Public Sector Reform Development
Policy Loan, Report No. 61571-MU, February 25, 2013.

World Bank, Mauritius DPO (p125694 and P128140), Implementation Status Reports,
August 2012, October, 2013 and May 2014.

World Bank, Legal Agreements for Loan Numbers 8138-MU (April 20, 2012) and 8247-
MU (April 19, 2013).

International Monetary Fund, IMF Country Report No.12/62, 13/97 and 14/107,
Mauritius, Staff Report for the 2012 Article IV Consultation, March 2012.

International Monetary Fund, IMF Country Report No., 13/97 and 14/107, Mauritius,
Staff Report for the 2013 Article IV Consultation, April 2013.

International Monetary Fund, IMF Country Report No.14/107, Mauritius, Staff Report
for the 2014 Article IV Consultation, May 2014.

Mauritius, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Statistics Mauritius on line
at: http://statsmauritius.govmu.org/English/Pages/default.aspx

Mauritius, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on line at: http://www.mauritiustrade.mu./en?

Mauritius, Office of Public Sector Governance (OPSG) on line at:
http://opsg.govmu.org/English/Pages/default.aspx




                                           39
MAP IBRD 33446




                 40
