                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                          Report No: ISR14965


                                                                                                 Implementation Status & Results
                                                                                                         Mauritius
                                                                                     MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL (P128140)
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Project Name:    MU -Second Public Sector Performance DPL (P128140)             Program Stage: Implementation            Seq.No: 2    Status: ARCHIVED     Archive Date:    26-Jun-2014
                                                                            Country: Mauritius                                     Approval FY:        2013
                         Product Line: IBRD/IDA                             Region: AFRICA                                         Lending Instrument: Development Policy Lending
                         Implementing Agency(ies):

                         Key Dates
                         Board Approval Date      27-Mar-2013        Original Closing Date 30-Jun-2014             Planned Mid Term Review Date                         Last Archived ISR Date 28-Oct-2013
                         Effectiveness Date       12-Jul-2013        Revised Closing Date 30-Jun-2014              Actual Mid Term Review Date

                         Program Development Objectives
                         Program Development Objective (from Program Document)

                         The development objective of the DPL programmatic series is to support improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the government
                         to implement the following three reform pillars: (i) strengthening services to support and empowerthe most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and processes;
                         and (iii) improving human resource management in the civil service and the monitoring of SOE performance.
                         Has the Program Development Objective been changed since Board Approval of the Program?

                            Yes           No


                         Overall Ratings
                                                                Previous Rating                      Current Rating
                         Progress towards achievement of PDO    Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                         Overall Implementation Progress (IP)   Satisfactory                         Satisfactory

                         Implementation Status Overview
                         This is the second and final ISR before the project closes in June 2014. The loan was fully disbursed in September 2013.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Implementation of the project continues across most components, pending to receive updated information on 2013 annual performance report prepared by the OPSG. While progress
                         to streamline the processes to amend the scheme of services has moved forward, consolidation of the total number of scheme of services has been delayed as consultations with all
                         stakeholders continue. Implementation of the HRMIS also suffers delays.

                         Also, substantial overhaul of the basic education system is taking place with adoption of 9 year basic education, which may result in dropping the prevocational stream. This might
                         influence the sustainability of the reforms supported by the DPL. In the meantime, the Prevocational Education (PVE) system has extended the program duration from 3 years to 4
                         years. These changes require an amendment to the indicator “Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational education cycle”, which MoEHR propose to
                         be “Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational education cycle (now referring to the fourth year of prevocational as the year of completion and not the
                         third year as for the previous years”. The first cohort in Year IV will complete PVE in 2014 and not 2013 as previously measured.

                         In addition, the Mauritius Single Window system has been extended by the development of a National Single Window-OGA portal, integrating other Government Agencies, which


                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                          Report No: ISR14965



                         caters for the online application, processing and approval for permits/authorizations related to import and export. Twelve agencies involved in the processing and issue of trade-
                         related permits/clearances have been identified to join the OGA Portal. The estimated date for the first agency to be operational, on a pilot basis, is July 2014. It is expected that other
                         agencies will be linked as from October 2014.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Based on the above delays, the overall rating of the project is downgraded from satisfactory to moderately satisfactory. As project closes June 30, government should ensure that (i)
                         the 2013 annual performance report prepared by the OPSG is posted on the OPSG website; (ii) IT systems (i.e. enhanced single window and HRMIS) become total or at least
                         partially operational; (iii) business facilitation continues and the number of regulations on which a decision is taken after review increases. An Implementation Completion Report will
                         be prepared and approved before December 31, 2014 after consultations with the authorities.

                         Social protection

                         The Placement and Training is one of the three pillars under the National Empowerment Foundation (NEF). The program aims at enhancing the employability of unemployed persons
                         in unskilled and semi-skilled jobs through the provision of training and placement services. To this end, the National Empowerment Foundation has been working with a number of
                         organizations such as the Mauritius Institute of Training and Development, the National Computer Board, the Mauritius Institute of Education and the Fashion and Design Institute to
                         dispense vocational and technical training to those below Secondary College (SC) Level with poor academic achievement so that they acquire technical knowledge and expertise to
                         enhance their chances of employability and /or to start their own micro business.

                         The Programme Based Budget (PBB) indicator of the NEF for 2013 based on the Budget item “Number of persons below the School Certificate level, placed and trained” was set at
                         1,200. This was also identified as the target indicator for the DPL. During 2013, several technical and vocational training relating to domestic workers, ICT, mechanics, welding and
                         several ones for the hotel industry had been provided to some 2,932 unemployed below SC Level while 348 have been placed in different sectors of the economy. The total number
                         for placed/trained is 3,280.

                         There are substantial new social protection programs using the Social Registry of Mauritius for identifying beneficiaries, including the Housing scheme (10,535 beneficiaries), the
                         casting of roof program (233 beneficiaries), the housing general and crèche programs of the NEF (480 beneficiaries), and NS and RI of the Ministry of Social Security (18,070
                         beneficiaries).

                         A new cash transfer program (New Income Support Program) promoting the principle of mutual obligations (social contract) was announced in the 2014 Budget Speech. The program
                         was introduced with the objective to expand social assistance to households that are poor but not currently entitled to social assistance. The budget allocated for the program in 2014
                         is MUR100 million and initially only existing beneficiaries of the Child Allowance Program, which is currently administered under the Social Register of Mauritius (SRM), will be
                         considered for the NISP. Switching to the NISP for those who are already collecting benefits from the existing programs would be voluntary. In order to facilitate and coordinate the
                         operationalization of the NISP, a steering committee was set up. The Steering Committee, comprising representatives of relevant government institutions, would meet regularly to
                         monitor progress on the implementation of the NISP. In order to detail the design and operational aspects of the NISP, the following three technical working groups (TWG) were
                         established: (i) TWG on income threshold and quantum for payment under the new income support program (chaired by MoFED); (ii) TWG on social contract (chaired by MSIEE);
                         and, (iii) TWG on IT requirements for SRM.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         The NISP presents an opportunity towards a more modern social assistance system. The government has already taken steps towards modernizing its social assistance system by (i)
                         establishing the SRM as the database for social assistance programs to gradually include an increasing number of existing programs; and (ii) introducing more objective eligibility
                         criteria in the identification of beneficiaries through the use of a proxy means test under the SRM. The NISP presents an opportunity to further modernize the social assistance system
                         by (i) potentially serving as the foundation for consolidation of fragmented social assistance programs under a unified register and though harmonized targeting; (ii) providing
                         beneficiaries multi-dimensional support to help them move out of poverty and promote social inclusion through social contract; (iii) improving oversight and controls by strengthened
                         monitoring using the unified register; and (iv) controlling spending through reduced fragmentation; improved oversight and controls and promoting graduation. In order to harness
                         these opportunities, the Government ought to articulate a vision for the future of NISP that re-organizes and consolidates the existing fragmented social assistance programs.

                         The NISP can potentially contribute to improved equity and enhanced pro-activity of social assistance in Mauritius. Expanding social protection to those who are poor but are not
                         covered under the existing programs (in particular the Social Aid) due to the categorical filters applied before a means test would improve equity. The work-able poor that are
                         currently excluded from the social aid mainly due to the concern of creating welfare dependency would be able to benefit from the NISP. Under the new program, the Government


                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 2 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                           Report No: ISR14965



                         aims to address the risk of welfare dependency through a social contract that will be signed between the state and the beneficiary. This presents a mechanism to enhance the pro-
                         activity of social assistance benefits to get beyond passive cash hand-outs. Currently, social assistance benefits in Mauritius are disconnected from employment services/programs.
                         Enhancing the proactivity of social benefits programs by linking beneficiaries to incentives and services to promote employability and employment opportunities has become an
                         important element of the social policy agenda in the EU and OECD countries. The Government intends to do this through a social contract to help work-able poor get into jobs while
Public Disclosure Copy




                         at the same time avoiding welfare dependency.

                         As the institutions work towards operationalizing the NISP, it would be critical to pay particular attention to the below aspects to achieve the intended outcomes:

                         Clear Institutional Roles and Responsibilities: There is a need to define clear roles and responsibilities for the institutions that will be involved in the implementation of the NISP. The
                         understanding from the discussions with the government teams is that the MoSS will be responsible for intake and eligibility determination of the beneficiaries while the MSIEE/NEF
                         will be responsible for the implementation of the social contract. Smooth coordination and collaboration between these institutions would be critical to success. The data and
                         information acquired by the MoSS during intake, eligibility and home visits would help the MSIEE/NEF in the implementation of the social contract. Data sharing between these
                         institutions would therefore be critical. Confidentiality issues that may apply for data sharing need to be determined and access to MoSS database by the NEF needs to be ensured.
                         Since the NISP would aim to provide multi-dimensional support to the poor and therefore require the involvement of other institutions, it would be critical to define the roles and
                         responsibilities of the institutions that will contribute to collective efforts to help beneficiaries move out of poverty.

                         Case Management: As announced in the 2014 Budget Speech, beneficiaries can stay on the NISP for a maximum of two years. A time limit was introduced in order to control the
                         fiscal burden on the government budget and to give the opportunity to other vulnerable households to join the NISP. The objective of case management would be to support a
                         sustainable exit from the NISP by supporting the beneficiary households to reach a certain level of human, social and productive assets that would allow them to become self-
                         sufficient. In order to achieve this, the social contract needs to be designed taking into account multi-dimensional poverty. Following signing of the social contract, addressing the
                         many challenges the beneficiary households are facing requires strong case management. It requires close monitoring of beneficiary households, identifying the key constraints that
                         they are facing and linking them to the necessary support to be provided by different institutions. As such, the social worker s under the NEF will need to identify the constraints facing
                         beneficiaries and their goals in order to map out a set of actions that the beneficiary must comply with to reduce their barriers to work or address other social obstacles facing them.
                         The social workers will then need to link beneficiaries to different institutions for services and do follow ups, monitoring, etc. All of these present a new definition of the role of the
                         social worker in helping the beneficiaries. This new role would likely present a challenge for the NEF that currently works only in “pockets of poverty” while the new program would be
                         implemented nationally. The NEF would need to have well equipped social workers to assume these new roles in the implementation of the social contract through case
                         management. A performance based system for social workers to support improved quality of services may also be considered.

                         Benefits Menu: Benefit design needs to be easy to implement (a simple benefit level for all households once they are deemed eligible for the benefit under the Proxy Means Test
                         (PMT) may be a good option). One can also consider different benefit levels associated with different cut off scores under the PMT. The child allowance program benefit can be
                         presented as a top-up benefit (to the basic benefit) for households with school-age children as an incentive for school attendance. Conditions for school performance could also be
                         considered; e.g., bonuses for grade progression and/or graduation. The benefit can be designed such that it reduces the disincentives to exit with declining benefits over time. This
                         would be particularly important for those households with a work-able member who can take up a job but would not do so with the concern that they would lose their entire benefit as
                         soon as they get a job
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Links to Labor Market Programs: Labor market activation of NISP beneficiaries requires up-to-date labor market information and needs to rest on an electronic labor exchange (ELE).
                         International experience suggests that an ELE requires dedicated personnel, authority over the MIS (including ability to update and maintain the system), and that an ELE could be
                         more effective if implemented by the private sector. Existing efforts to develop an ELE in the Ministry of Labor were less than successful. The Youth Empowerment Exchange is
                         developing and the NISP can benefit from this database. However, it would present limitations for the purposes of activation of the NISP beneficiaries as it is targeted to only a
                         segment of potential beneficiaries requiring activation. A mobile labor market exchange office could be considered to ensure activation support is available island-wide.

                         Public Information Campaign: The NISP brings a significant change in mindset in providing social protection. It is essential that these changes are communicated effectively to the
                         population through a structured public information campaign.

                         Reform of prevocational education



                                                                                                                                                                                                          Page 3 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                            Report No: ISR14965



                         Substantial overhaul of the basic education system is taking place with adoption of 9 year basic education, which may result in dropping the prevocational stream. This might
                         influence the sustainability of the reforms supported by the DPL.
                         In parallel, fundamental changes have been implemented in the Prevocational Education (PVE) system since the DPL was approved. The most relevant is the extension of
                         programme duration. In the context of the implementation of the New Strategy for PVE in 2012, a new curriculum was introduced in Year I and gradually phased in for those who
Public Disclosure Copy




                         were attending Year II. This latter cohort has now reached Year IV which is being implemented for the first time in 2014.

                         The new curriculum has been prepared for the four years of the cycle and is being taught in all schools. It is based on 5 key domains of learning. New adapted pedagogy has been
                         also introduced and a Bridging the Gap programme for a smooth transition from primary to Prevocational education Year I has been introduced in 2014. New student workbooks
                         based on the new curriculum have been prepared and are currently in schools. This is being complemented with ongoing capacity building and Training of Educators. Furthermore, a
                         comprehensive training needs analysis exercise is to be conducted for the sector. While the quality assurance mechanism is being set up for the PVE sector at large, a monitoring
                         mechanism has been set up at zone level and school visits are being carried out by PVE Inspectors, PVE Project Coordinators and Quality Assurance officers.

                         These changes require an amendment to the indicator “Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational education cycle”, which MoEHR proposes to be
                         “Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational education cycle (now referring to the fourth year of prevoc. as the year of completion and not the third year
                         as for the previous years”. The first cohort in Year IV will complete PVE in 2014 and not 2013 as previously measured.

                         Streamlining existing regulations and systematically ensuring that the design of new regulations is conducive to busine ss

                         The authorities are working towards further streamlining regulations and further eliminating unnecessary permits, in addition to the 6 items delisted from Import Control with effect
                         from 3 January 2013. The Ministry also delisted 3 items from Export Control with effect from 10 December 2013. Moreover as from 15 March 2014, samples of controlled goods
                         bearing HSCode 10.06, 11.01, 17.01 and 25.23 weighing 10 kilograms or less exported for analysis or marketing purposes involving no transfer of funds do not require an import
                         permit.

                         The government commitment in this area is also reinvigorated with the up-coming Accelerated Program of Economic Integration (APEI) regional DPO. As a prior action, the Cabinet
                         has taken a decision to reduce the number of products requiring import and export permits by the Agricultural Marketing Board from 21 to 6. Moving forward, the Government will
                         eliminate as part of APEI DPO2 and DPO3 the following NTBs: (i) import approvals for fish to be done by only Ministry of Health and (ii) remove NTB on wheat flour. The Government
                         will also eliminate as part of APEI DPO3 5 NTBs identified through the codification exercise.

                         Promoting administrative efficiency in trade processes by using IT

                         The specific reforms supported by the DPL series were: (i) Cabinet approval of a Memorandum detailing the establishment of a trade portal and (ii) adoption by the Steering
                         Committee for Development and Implementation of a functional model for the single window.

                         The authorities have operationalized the trade portal, which was launched in August 2013 and can be accessed at http://www.mauritiustrade.mu/en. The portal increases the
                         transparency and accessibility to all regulations listed by national tariff line for importers and exporters, as well as information relating to import and export procedures in Mauritius,
Public Disclosure Copy




                         opportunities existing on the regional and international markets under various agreements Mauritius signed, among others.

                         The Trade Portal: (i) improves predictability and transparency of import and export process in Mauritius which is in line with Mauritius commitment to regional and international
                         bilateral agreements; (ii) provides online access to all import and export regulations and procedures; (iii) encourages overseas companies that trade with Mauritius and provides them
                         market and regulatory information; and (iv) gives access to international trade agreements that Mauritius has signed and which provide Mauritian exporters with preferential market
                         access to key markets such as SADC, COMESA, EU, USA among others.

                         Since the launch of the Trade portal in August 2013 there have been 10,988 visits and 120,636 page views. The average time spent per visit amounts to 7.23 minutes. As at April
                         2014, there have been 251 validated profiles with 22 subscribers to ‘Business Alerts’. Over the past three months there has been: (i) 860 unique visitors/month; (ii) 1267 visits/month;
                         (iii) 9006 pages view/month; (iv) 5.41 average time spent (minutes) per visit; and (v) 100 visits of the country profiles.



                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page 4 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                         Report No: ISR14965



                         The Mauritius Single Window system has been extended by the development of a National Single Window-OGA portal, integrating other Government Agencies, which caters for the
                         online application, processing and approval for permits/authorizations related to import and export. Twelve agencies involved in the processing and issue of trade-related permits/
                         clearances have been identified to join the OGA Portal. The estimated date for the first agency to be operational, on a pilot basis, is July 2014. It is expected that other agencies will
                         be linked as from October 2014.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         In order to optimize on the benefits of the Single Window, the business processes of the 12 agencies have been examined with a view to streamlining them. Furthermore, time limit
                         for the issue of a permit has been fixed as from the effective date of receipt of the application. Further, legislative amendments required for the implementation of the Single Window
                         have been included in the Economic and Financial Measures (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 2013 and shall come into force on a date to be fixed by Proclamation. Additional
                         Regulations have been prepared, to facilitate the implementation of OGA portal and the streamlined procedures. In addition, comprehensive and clear guidelines, which will be made
                         available on websites to facilitate compliance by operators, are being finalized. The enhanced Single Window will also be linked to the Government e-payment gateway.

                         The government commitment in this area is also reinvigorated with the up-coming Accelerated Program of Economic Integration (APEI) regional DPO. As a prior action for this year,
                         the trade portal has been put in place, increasing transparency by presenting all relevant trade information. Moving forward, as part of APEI DPO2 establish the national single windo
                         w.

                         Enhancing the effectiveness of the Mauritius Customs administrative appeals and penalties

                         The specific reforms supported by the DPL series were: (i) Formulation of policy paper (by MOFED) on the legal framework, institutional set-up and operation of an ap propriate
                         internal appeal mechanism within MRA-Customs that would be consistent with the requirements of the Revised Kyoto Convention and (ii) the government adopts a prescribed
                         schedule of administrative penalties for Customs. The internal appeal mechanism has been set up and the prescribed schedule of administrative penalties for Customs has been
                         institutionalized.

                         With regards to the Schedule of administrative penalties the Finance (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2012 amended Section 162 of the Customs Act 1988 to: (i) Enable the Director-
                         General with the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions, to compound any offences committed by any person against any Customs Laws and is prescribed as a
                         compoundable offence; and (ii) Regulations was made under Section 163 of the Customs Act for the introduction of the Customs (Compoundable Offence and Compounding
                         Amount) Regulations 2012 which came into effect on 01.01.13. For the proper implementation of Section 162, an agreement has been made between the Mauritius Revenue
                         Authority and the Director Public Prosecutions

                         As a result of the enhancement in the compounding process more on the spot settlement for minor offences committed by passengers where the amount of duty, excise duty and
                         taxes below the threshold of Rs 7,500 have taken place: They increased from 260 cases raised and 132 cases settled in 2012 to 623 cases raised and 408 cases settled in 2013. An
                         increase in transparency, predictability, efficiency and effectiveness of the compounding mechanism is in line with the vision of the Mauritius Revenue Authority and has been
                         accepted by the economic operators as there is rarely dispute with respect to the compounding terms. Moving forward, Section 162 of the Customs Act 1988 and the Customs
                         (Compoundable Offence and Compounding Amount) Regulations 2012 are being reviewed based on representations made by Economic operators.

                         In 2013, 1,073 Customs Offense Reports (COR’s) were filed and the time taken to settle the penalty is shown below:
Public Disclosure Copy




                         NO of COR’s Filed         - 1,073
                         COR’s settled at Source- 408        (38%)
                         COR’s settled within 2 weeks - 355 (33%)
                         COR’s settled after 2 weeks - 137 (13%)
                         Unsettled COR’s -         173 (16%)

                         From the figures above, in 2013, 71% of the COR’s filed were settled within 2 weeks. The reason for COR’s being settled after two weeks is due to the fact that the offenders have
                         responded to the agreement for compounding after two weeks. The unsettled COR’s are referred to the Legal Services Department of the Mauritius Revenue Authority for further
                         inquiry due to the fact that the offenders are not agreeable to compounding or are agreeable to compound but have not yet settled the agreed amount. The offender is given a period
                         of 28 days to respond to the agreement for compounding. A first letter is issued to the offender and if he does not respond within 14 days, a final reminder is sent to the offender.



                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 5 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                             Report No: ISR14965



                         With regards to the internal appeals mechanism, the Finance (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2012 introduced the following changes in the respective Customs Laws: (i) Customs Act
                         1988, definition of the ‘Objection Directorate’ and introduction of appeal mechanism to the ‘Objection Directorate’ in Sections 15(2B), 19(3B), 20(3B), 23(7), 24(6) or 24A(5); (ii)
                         Customs Tariff Act 1969, introduction of appeal mechanism to the ‘Objection Directorate’ in Section 5(2B) (c); and (iii) Excise Act 1994, introduction of appeal mechanism to the
                         ‘Objection Directorate’ in Sections 5(5), 22(7) or 52(7).
Public Disclosure Copy




                         As a result of these changes, 123 objections were received since January 2013 by the Independent Directorate for internal appeal mechanism. Overall, the 1st level of appeal has
                         been accepted by stakeholders. 91 determinations have been given, out of which 48 representations have been made to the Assessment Review Committee (ARC). Moving forward,
                         the procedure to implement the initial objection is being reviewed in order to make it less cumbersome.


                         Development of a Human Resources Management Information System project and streamlining of Schemes of Service

                         Progress in the reforms supported continues albeit at a slow pace. The total number of schemes of service for civil servants has been reduced to about 2,300 by February 2014 and
                         is expected to be further reduced to 2,156 by the end of the year. The duration of the amendment of schemes of services now stands at an average of 3-4 months, with some cases
                         being amended in about a month. These measures are in line with the expected results anticipated in the DPO operation (i.e. gradual reduction of processing time relating to the
                         prescription of schemes of service to four months). Also consolidation of schemes of service has been worked out on a pilot case by MCSAR for the various grades comprising the
                         Human Resource Management Cadre which falls under the responsibility of the Ministry. The new model proposed constitutes a major change in the current practice in as much as it
                         has been a long established practice to have a single scheme of service for each grade. The idea of having consolidated versions of schemes of service was mentioned to
                         Federations of Unions and it is noted that they have shown reluctance with the new model. Moreover, following the recommendations of the Pay Research Bureau and Errors,
                         Omissions and Anomalies Committee Reports 2013, a substantial number of grades have been created and this has resulted in an increase in the number of schemes of service: and
                         a slow response from Ministries/Departments to rationalize the number of schemes of service has been noted. In view of the complexity of the issue, the implementation of this new
                         measure will require sometime for MCSAR to achieve its strategic intent to reduce the number of schemes of service in the Public Service. In the given circumstances, the
                         consolidation of schemes of service is not being pursued for the time being pending further consultation with all relevant stakeholders.

                         The Human Resources Management Information System (HRMIS) is being developed by the Mauritius State Informatics Ltd on Oracle-platform. Initially, the HRMIS was to be
                         implemented on a pilot basis in only 5 or 6 selected Ministries/Departments. However, after reconsideration, it has been decided that all Ministries/Departments be involved in the
                         implementation process right from the beginning of the implementation phase for, inter-alia, the following reasons: (i) sensitization on the project would be carried out in an effective
                         manner; (ii) avoid duplication in terms of provision of training to officers in the Human Resources and Financial Operations Cadres; (iii) enable early identification of practical software
                         related problems and early referral for settlement thereof; (iv) allow the supplier of the system, namely the State Informatics Ltd to take stock of all the specificities of the Civil Service
                         before developing the system; (v) avoid practical difficulties through involvement of all Ministries/Departs at the same time in the different implementations phase – Requirement
                         gathering; Data Capture/ Maintenance/Migration; and (vi) enable a full scale testing of the payroll and core Human Resources Modules.

                         To facilitate the implementation process, all Ministries/Departments have designated their respective Coordinators, who are from the HR and Finance Cadres. Sensitization meetings
                         have been held since November 2013 with all coordinators and Officers-in-Charge of the HR and Finance Divisions of Ministries/Departments. Given the size and complexity of the
                         HRMIS project, a holistic and step-wise approach is being adopted by MCSAR so that they understand the intricacies of project as well as their additional roles and responsibilities
Public Disclosure Copy




                         during the implementation phase.

                         It is envisaged as an integral system that handles all processes related to HR management, from hiring to retirement. The first module of the HRMIS, the payroll module is expected
                         to go live by end 2014 and data migration phase, which comprises data capture, data cleansing and data input, has started in March and is expected to be complete in about 4 to 5
                         months. A brochure on the HRMIS been also developed in parallel. The full system, comprising five modules, is expected to be implemented in all Ministries/Departments by end
                         2016. The indicative implementation schedule (Module wise) being worked on for the time being is as follows:
                         (a)        Payroll Module (end 2014);
                         (b)        HR Module (2014 – 2016);
                         (c)        Self Service (2015);
                         (d)        Learning Management (2015 – 2016); and
                         (e)        Performance Management (2016).


                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 6 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                       Report No: ISR14965




                         The HRMIS is indeed an unprecedented Civil Service Reforms project, involving the participation of partners and stakeholders from all Ministries/Departments. On certain technical
                         or legal/policy matters, MCSAR has to rely on inputs/clearances of others to be able to move ahead. In view of the fact that every Ministry/Department has its own sectoral
                         commitment, implementation of the HRMIS constitutes an additional workload to be attended to with the same amount of human resources. These are unpredictable constraints
Public Disclosure Copy




                         which arise in the course of the implementation process.

                         Moving forward, on-going initiatives such as an electronic system that will be part of the HRMIS and a handbook for drafting schemes of service and related training on the matter, will
                         help to reduce the process required to amend schemes of service, though not drastically. Without additional changes in current operation modalities, it will be difficult for MSCAR to
                         further accelerate the amendment of schemes of service, particularly given the need to secure the collaboration with a large number of unions, grouped in three major federations.

                         Monitoring of State Owned Enterprises (SOE) Performance

                         Since 2012, the OPSG has focused on a total of 7 restructuring plans for SOEs, with 4 more to be completed in 2014. These restructuring plans include the milestone for achieving a
                         5 percent return on their capital investment. The plans have been approved by Cabinet and published on the SOE website, as agreed by both the Bank and the EU.

                         During 2013, the EU has provided technical assistance to OPSG towards the upgrading of the reporting in the Performance Information Management System (PIMS). The PIMS
                         database currently contains annual data for 20 SOEs for the past three years. The system is being upgraded to enable the graphical display of forecasts of indicators for the next five
                         years from trends detected from three year historical data. These reports will be provided to the SOEs for self-assessment.
                         As at date, the OPSG has not published its annual performance report, as was done in 2011 and 2012. While some gaps may be understandable as part of the upgrading of the
                         PIMS system mentioned above, without a fully-fledged report on SOEs progress toward attaining the KPI (Number of SOEs included in the annual performance report prepared by
                         the OPSG and published on the OPSG website) cannot be assessed.


                         Results
                         Results Indicators
                         Indicator Name                                    Core Unit of Measure                   Baseline                        Current                         End Target
                         Number of people with less than a secondary             Number               Value       912.00                          3280.00                         1200.00
                         school certificate (SC) placed in Placement for                              Date        01-Jan-2012                     31-Dec-2013                     31-Dec-2013
                         Training
                                                                                                      Comments                                    Technical and vocational
                                                                                                                                                  training relating to domestic
                                                                                                                                                  workers, ICT, mechanics,
                                                                                                                                                  welding and several ones for
                                                                                                                                                  the hotel industry hadbeen
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                                  provided to some 2,932
                                                                                                                                                  unemployed below SC Level
                                                                                                                                                  while 348 have been placed
                                                                                                                                                  in different sectors of the
                                                                                                                                                  economy.
                         Number of households in the Social Regsiter of          Number               Value       0.00                            29318.00                        13000.00
                         Mauritius                                                                    Date        01-Jan-2012                     31-Dec-2013                     31-Dec-2013
                                                                                                      Comments                                    Including the Housing scheme
                                                                                                                                                  (10,535 beneficiaries), the




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Page 7 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                     Report No: ISR14965



                                                                                                               casting of roof program (233
                                                                                                               beneficiaries), the housing
                                                                                                               general and crèche programs
                                                                                                               of the NEF (480
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                               beneficiaries), and NS and RI
                                                                                                               of the Ministry of Social
                                                                                                               Security (18,070
                                                                                                               beneficiaries).
                         Percentage of students entering Year 1 and      Percentage   Value      72.20                                          74.20
                         completing the pre-vocational education cycle                Date       01-Jan-2012                                    31-Dec-2013
                                                                                      Comments                                                  The Prevocational Education
                                                                                                                                                system has extended the
                                                                                                                                                program duration from 3
                                                                                                                                                years to 4 years. These
                                                                                                                                                changes require an
                                                                                                                                                amendment to the indicator
                                                                                                                                                which MoEHR propose to be
                                                                                                                                                “Percentage of students
                                                                                                                                                entering Year 1 and
                                                                                                                                                completing the pre-vocational
                                                                                                                                                education cycle(now referring
                                                                                                                                                to the fourth year of prevoc.
                                                                                                                                                as the year of completion and
                                                                                                                                                not the third year as for the
                                                                                                                                                previous years”. The
                                                                                                                                                firstcohort in Year IV will
                                                                                                                                                complete PVE in 2014 and
                                                                                                                                                not 2013 as previously
                                                                                                                                                measured.
                         Number of regulations on which a decision is    Number       Value      0.00          25.00                            30.00
                         taken after review                                           Date       01-Jan-2012   28-May-2014                      31-Dec-2013
                                                                                      Comments                 6 items delisted from Import
                                                                                                               Control in January 2013. 3
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                               items delisted from Export
                                                                                                               Control from December 2013.
                                                                                                               From March 2014, samples of
                                                                                                               controlled goods bearing
                                                                                                               HSCode 10.06, 11.01, 17.01
                                                                                                               and 25.23 weighing 10
                                                                                                               kilograms or less exported for
                                                                                                               analysis or marketing
                                                                                                               purposes involving no transfer
                                                                                                               of funds do not require an




                                                                                                                                                                 Page 8 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                    Report No: ISR14965



                                                                                                              import permit. The Cabinet
                                                                                                              has also decided to reduce
                                                                                                              the number of products
                                                                                                              requiring import and export
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                              permits by the Agricultural
                                                                                                              Marketing Board from 21 to 6.
                         All ministries involved in issuing certificates/   Yes/No   Value      No                                             Yes
                         permits/clearances connected with the national              Date       01-Jan-2012                                    31-Dec-2013
                         single window
                                                                                     Comments                                                  The Mauritius Single Window
                                                                                                                                               system has been extended by
                                                                                                                                               the development of a National
                                                                                                                                               Single Window-OGA portal,
                                                                                                                                               integrating other Government
                                                                                                                                               Agencies, which caters for the
                                                                                                                                               online application, processing
                                                                                                                                               and approval for permits/
                                                                                                                                               authorizations related to
                                                                                                                                               import and export. Twelve
                                                                                                                                               agencies involved in the
                                                                                                                                               processing and issue of trade-
                                                                                                                                               related permits/clearances
                                                                                                                                               have been identified to join
                                                                                                                                               the OGA Portal. The
                                                                                                                                               estimated date for the first
                                                                                                                                               agency to be operational, on
                                                                                                                                               a pilot basis, is July 2014. It is
                                                                                                                                               expected that other agencies
                                                                                                                                               will be linked as from October
                                                                                                                                               2014.
                         The amount of time needed to settle the            Weeks    Value      6.00          2.00                             3.00
                         Customs administrative penalty amount                       Date       01-Jan-2012   31-Dec-2013                      31-Dec-2013
                                                                                     Comments                 71% of the Customs Offense
                                                                                                              Reports (COR)’s filed were
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                              settled within 2 weeks. The
                                                                                                              reason for COR’s being
                                                                                                              settled after two weeks isdue
                                                                                                              to the fact that the offenders
                                                                                                              have responded to the
                                                                                                              agreement for compounding
                                                                                                              after two weeks.
                         Gradual reduction of processing time relating to   Months   Value      6.00          3.50                             4.00
                         the prescription of Schemes of Service                      Date       01-Jan-2012   31-Dec-2013                      31-Dec-2013




                                                                                                                                                                   Page 9 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                        Report No: ISR14965



                                                                                                  Comments                         The duration of the
                                                                                                                                   amendment of schemes of
                                                                                                                                   services now stands at an
                                                                                                                                   average of 3-4 months, with
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                   some cases being amended
                                                                                                                                   in abouta month.
                         Number of Schemes of Service                           Text              Value      Above 2,500           Total number of schemes of      Consolidation of Schemes of
                                                                             Sub Type                                              service for civil servants has Service extended to other
                                                                                                                                   been reduced to about 2,300 sectors of the civil service
                                                                             Supplemental
                                                                                                                                   by February 2014 and is
                                                                                                                                   expected to be further
                                                                                                                                   reduced to 2,156 by the end
                                                                                                                                   of the year. consolidation of
                                                                                                                                   schemes of service has been
                                                                                                                                   piloted in MCSAR and is also
                                                                                                                                   taking place inother ministries
                                                                                                                                   reducing the total amount of
                                                                                                                                   schemes of service by around
                                                                                                                                   14 percent compared to the
                                                                                                                                   amount in 2011.



                         Number of SOEs included in the quarterly               Number            Value      0.00                  20.00                           25.00
                         performance reports prepared by the OPSG                                 Date       01-Jan-2012           28-May-2014                     31-Dec-2013
                         and published on the OPSG website
                                                                                                  Comments                         The PIMS database currently
                                                                                                                                   contains annual data for 20
                                                                                                                                   SOEs for the past three
                                                                                                                                   years. However, the annual
                                                                                                                                   performance report prepared
                                                                                                                                   by the OPSG is not yet
                                                                                                                                   published on the OPSG
                                                                                                                                   website and therefore this
                                                                                                                                   indicator cannot be fully
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                   assessed.


                         Data on Financial Performance (as of 13-Sep-2013)
                         Financial Agreement(s) Key Dates
                         Project             Ln/Cr/Tf               Status               Approval Date        Signing Date   Effectiveness Date     Original Closing Date   Revised Closing Date
                         P128140             IBRD-82470             Effective            27-Mar-2013          19-Apr-2013    12-Jul-2013            30-Jun-2014             30-Jun-2014

                         Disbursements (in Millions)



                                                                                                                                                                                     Page 10 of 11
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                              Report No: ISR14965


                         Project                  Ln/Cr/Tf                 Status              Currency      Original           Revised           Cancelled          Disbursed            Undisbursed          % Disbursed
                         P128140                  IBRD-82470               Effective           USD                      20.00             20.00               0.00               20.00                  0.00        100.00

                         Tranches
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Tranche 1




                         Amount (USD)              Expected Release Date      Actual Release Date                                Status
                                              0                                                                                      Pending                   Released


                         Key Decisions Regarding Implementation
                         This is the second and final ISR before the project closes in June 2014. The loan was fully disbursed in September 2013.

                         Implementation of the project continues across most components, pending to receive updated information on 2013 annual performance report prepared by the OPSG. While progress
                         to streamline the processes to amend the scheme of services has moved forward, consolidation of the total number of scheme of services has been delayed as consultations with all
                         stakeholders continue. Implementation of the HRMIS also suffers delays.

                         Also, substantial overhaul of the basic education system is taking place with adoption of 9 year basic education, which may result in dropping the prevocational stream. This might
                         influence the sustainability of the reforms supported by the DPL. In the meantime, the Prevocational Education (PVE) system has extended the program duration from 3 years to 4
                         years. These changes require an amendment to the indicator “Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational education cycle”, which MoEHR propose to
                         be “Percentage of students entering Year 1 and completing the pre-vocational education cycle (now referring to the fourth year of prevocational as the year of completion and not the
                         third year as for the previous years”. The first cohort in Year IV will complete PVE in 2014 and not 2013 as previously measured.

                         In addition, the Mauritius Single Window system has been extended by the development of a National Single Window-OGA portal, integrating other Government Agencies, which
                         caters for the online application, processing and approval for permits/authorizations related to import and export. Twelve agencies involved in the processing and issue of trade-
                         related permits/clearances have been identified to join the OGA Portal. The estimated date for the first agency to be operational, on a pilot basis, is July 2014. It is expected that other
                         agencies will be linked as from October 2014.

                         Based on the above delays, the overall rating of the project is downgraded from satisfactory to moderately satisfactory. As project closes June 30, government should ensure that (i)
                         the 2013 annual performance report prepared by the OPSG is posted on the OPSG website; (ii) IT systems (i.e. enhanced single window and HRMIS) become total or at least
                         partially operational; (iii) business facilitation continues and the number of regulations on which a decision is taken after review increases. An Implementation Completion Report will
Public Disclosure Copy




                         be prepared and approved before December 31, 2014 after consultations with the authorities.

                         Restructuring History
                         There has been no restructuring to date.

                         Related Operations
                         P125694-Mauritius First Public Sector Performance Development Policy Loan




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 11 of 11
