Report No. 23858
Report No: I048315 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/14/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: TUNISIA         Project ID: P048315
Project: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT      Task Team Leader: Shobha Shetty
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 18, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 27, 2002     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSRE     Sector: VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project's main development objective is improved management and
protection of selected national parks for the purposes of conserving
biodiversity of global importance and contributing to the overall
improvement in welfare of local populations.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project includes the following three components: (all $ amounts are
indicative only)
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening ($1.73 M): The objective of this
component will be to reinforce the institutional capacity of the
Directorate General of Forestry (Ministry of Agriculture) and the Ministry
of Environment in the sustainable protected areas management. This
component will support the following: (i) strengthening of the Project
Management Unit; (ii) training; (iii) technical and scientific studies;
and (iv) establishment of a scientific monitoring system for the protected
areas. The training programs would have a strong regional focus with
modules targeting park management personnel, local governments at the
regional Commissariats Regionaux de Developpement Agricole (CRDA) level,
and other potential partners (including the private sector and NGOs) in
participatory approaches to protected areas management. It will also
include training programs for the Directorate General of Forestry
(Ministry of Agriculture), Ministry of Tourism, and the Ministry of
Environment and Landuse Planning at the central level (where justified).
Component 2: Protected Areas Management ($U.S 6.41 M): The objectives of
this component are to: (i) manage and restore the ecosystems in the three
national parks to protect the globally important flora and fauna; (ii)
assist in the development of ecotourism activities; and (iii) establish,
with the local populations, community development plans compatible with
the objectives of sustainable biodiversity conservation. The three parks
(out of 8) chosen include Ichkeul, Bouhedma, and Jebil. These three parks
cover unique and distinctly different ecosystems - wetland,
arid-mountain/pseudo savanna, and desert respectively (see Annex 2 for a
brief description of each park). The project will develop detailed
management plans, provide equipment, training and small infrastructural



facilities in all three sites. In addition, it will establish mechanisms
to reduce the unsustainable use of natural resources, particularly those
resources that in the past were shared common resources such as grazing
lands and forests. The project will develop strategies for ecotourism
that will demonstrate the links between conservation and economic benefits
for the local communities. The management plans will emphasize not only
the technical aspects (inventory, infrastructure, surveillance), but also
strategic and sustainability issues (participatory review and assessment
of existing management plans and practices by local communities,
negotiations with communities on priority activities to reduce pressures
on the protected areas, support for alternative livelihoods consistent
with biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of natural resources,
scientific monitoring), and would be implemented during the project
period. This component would also include the (parallel) cofinancing by
the French GEF for the Bouhedma and Jebil national parks.
Component 3: Public Awareness ($U.S0.7M): This component would aim to
build public support for biodiversity conservation at the local/park level
and regional/governorate level. Action plans will target priority groups
such as local governments, site visitors, and local school children for
raising the awareness of specific stakeholder groups about the importance
of, and opportunities for, biodiversity conservation within the three
parks. Possible delivery mechanisms include mass media, formal and
informal education, and development of linkages with local NGOs, schools,
tourism agencies, and other organizations to promote public understanding
about biodiversity resources. For each of the parks, flagship
species/themes (espOce phare) have been identified that will form the
nucleus of all public awareness campaigns as well as research, monitoring
and conservation activities. These would be the accacia raddiana, and the
white gazelle (gazelle leptoceros) for the parks of Bouhedma and Jebil
respectively and the theme of water resources management for the case of
Ichkeul. Activities will be developed at the local/community level around
these key species/themes in order to develop the grassroots awareness
necessary to sustain long-term biodiversity conservation.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will result in global and regional benefits by contributing to
sustainable conservation management in three of Tunisia's well-known
national parks covering about 180,000 ha. representing diverse ecosystems
with biodiversity of global and regional importance. Principal project
areas benefiting are:
'Ichkeul National Park, in the north of the country, which is part of an
important flyway for migratory birds; is a Ramsar site, biosphere reserve,
and
a world heritage site.
'Bou Hedma National Park, in central Tunisia is a Man and Biosphere (MAB)
site; and
'Jebil National Park, in one of the most isolated southern areas of
Tunisia contains high value, though not well studied saharien biodiversity
and is   likewise the home for rare species, including the white gazelle.
- 2 -



The project will also establish linkages and collaboration to support
and benefit from conservation initiatives in neighboring countries. The
global benefits include: (a) conservation of critical saharan and wetland
habitats and enhancing the probability of their long-term conservation;
(b) development of incentives to maintain protected areas in the
long-term; (c) established capacity to ensure adequate management of
protected areas sustainably; and (d) new knowledge concerning the
feasibility of community-based natural resource conservation approaches
and the factors associated with success.
Two of the sites (Bouhedma and Jebil) are important priorities under the
Bonn Convention for the conservation of Sahelo-saharan antelopes. The
Ichkeul lake and marshes have long been recognized (together with Donana
in Spain, the Camargue in France and the El Kala region in Algeria) as one
of the four major wetland areas in the western basin of the Mediterranean.
Ichkeul National Park (covering an area of some 12,000 hectares) is one of
the few sites listed under three international agreements: (a) Biosphere
Reserve (1977); (b) World Heritage Convention (1979); and (c) Ramsar
Convention (1980). The lake and marshes of the park provide habitat for
hundreds of thousands of migratory birds (in particular ducks, geese,
storks and flamingos). Improving the management of the park would help
increase the numbers of wintering ducks and coots have decreased from an
average of 200,000 individuals to a level situated around 50,000 at
present. Other important species include the wintering geese, herons,
egrets, the globally threatened Marbled Teal (Anas angustirostris), Purple
Gallinule (Porphyrio porphyrio), and the White-headed Duck (Oxyura
leucocephala) (also globally threatened). The national park of Bou Hedma
is home to the extremely rare gazelle dorcas, and the oryx antelope. Other
fauna of importance are the striped hyena, golden jackal and crested
porcupine. The park houses 8 of the 14 species recognized as endemic in
the National Biodiversity Study such as the Acacia raddiana, Juniperus
phoenicea, Pistacia atlantica, Thymelea sempervirens, Tetrapon villosus,
Tricholena teneriffe, and Cenchrus ciliaris, and Digitaria communtata. In
addition, the park has potential for the re-introduction of fauna,
relatives of species that once roamed but have since disappeared, such as
the gazelle dorcas, oryx - the straight honed antelope, addax the desert
antelope, and ostriches. Some of these have already been re-introduced in
the park in limited numbers. The national park of Jebil is a relatively
new park and consists of very unique Saharan ecosystems that have not been
very well studied thus far. The park contains internationally important
biodiversity, some of which is found only in Tunisia. Globally important
species include the white gazelle (gazella leptoceros),
gazella abiod, and remarkable flora like calligonum that attain several
meters in height in the sand dunes of the grand erg.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
The project is not expected to have any negative environmental impacts of
any kind. It is expected to generate significant positive environmental
benefits through the establishment of effective management systems to
conserve the natural integrity and biodiversity of Tunisia's ecosystems in
three national parks. Infrastructure-related activities are expected to be
small-scale involving mainly the refurbishment of visitor centers, marked
trails, and signage. They will be carried out in a manner that minimizes
negative environmental impacts. This will be done through ensuring that
-3 -



the relevant environmental provisions in accordance with Bank guidelines
are specified in the terms of reference (TORs) and all construction
contracts. The protected area management plans to be developed under the
project will involve definition of land and resource use zones within the
parks and define specific measures to be undertaken to ensure sustainable
management of the biodiversity resources. Key stakeholders will include
the local communities, CRDAs, and NGOs. The development of the management
plans will include all the key stakeholders and constitutes an
environmental management plan per se. No resettlement is envisaged.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The proposed project is in its entirety devoted to solve the questions of
biodiversity conservation with a participatory approach.
Infrastructure-related activities are expected to be small-scale involving
mainly the refurbishment of visitor centers, marked trails, and signage.
They will be carried out in a manner that minimizes negative environmental
impacts. This will be done through ensuring that the relevant
environmental provisions in accordance with Bank guidelines (OD 4.01) are
specified in the terms of reference (TORs) and all construction
contracts. The management plans for the three areas will thereby
constitute an environmental management plan and the Bank will ensure that
this conforms to the standards of OD 4.01 as a condition for financing.
The project has also ensured that the activities are in accordance with
the guidelines specified in O.P 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. In order
to guarantee this, a process framework (conforming to para 7 of OP4.12)
acceptable to the Bank will be submitted as a condition of appraisal. This
will include, inter alia, provisions to ensure that local people will not
be evicted from the parks or restricted in habitual access to them without
their consent (except for restrictions on commercial hunting), and that
participatory plans with full and informed prior consent will be developed
to reduce pressure on resoources within the protected areas. This process
framework will be referred to in the legal documents and will therefore be
legally binding. The formation of local associations will provide the
- 4 -



means by which they can jointly and voluntarily undertake protection of
park resources and find alternatives to the use of any resources to which
they currently have access. There is no anticipated action that will
result in resettlement or in any further restriction of access to the
resources in the existing parks. The management plans to be developed
under the project will be in accordance with Bank safeguard policies and
will not contravene any policy requirements. These same plans will define
land and resource use zones within the parks and identify the specific
measures to be undertaken to ensure sustainable management of the
biodiversity resources. Key stakeholders in the formulation of the
management plans will include the local communities, CRDAs, and NGOs. The
development of the management plans will include all the key stakeholders
and will constitute an environmental management plan per se. The project
team as well as the team responsible for the preparation studies have
taken into account all appropriate safeguard policy issues. The key isssue
in the project is that of legalizing or otherwise recognizing the current
occupants of the parks, and in the case of Jebil, of recognizing the
legitimate users of the park spaces. The Administration is receptive to
the idea of inclusion of the park occupants in the process of developing
park management plans, but is constrained on the legal front regarding
regularizing their status. The challenge of the project will be to ensure
that participation is truly inclusive and meaningful to the local
communities including the current occupants of the park.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
n.a
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
n.a
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
n.a
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders in this instance are first, the people living in the
project areas. They have been intensively consulted and they have
contributed to the process of project preparation. Other key stakeholders
such as conservation organizations, businesses, tourist bureau, and other
institutions have also had an active role in the diagnostics and
preparation studies. A series of seminars in the three areas discussed
the result of the preparation with the population and the results of these
restitution workshops will be taken into account during appraisal.
Because of the sensitivities surrounding land tenure and use, all the
concerned stakeholders will be provided with information about safeguards
and the provisions in the process framework.
- 5 -



E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
Insert page break here
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      3/4/2002         3/8/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 3/11/2002         3/14/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   3/14/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Category C - one safeguard policy applicable but impacts are very limited
and institutionally manageable.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Shobha Shetty   03/14/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Nicole Glineur/Person/World Bank         03/14/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        John Keith Rennie-MNS/Person/World Bank
03/14/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Sherif Kamel F. Arif     03/14/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         M. Salah Darghouth       03/14/2002
- 6 -



For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 7 -



