RP94
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Process Framework for Community Participation in Biodiversity Conservation
and Resource Management
I. Introduction
A. Project Obiectives
The Tunisia Protected Area Management Project seeks to improve the management of three
national parks: Ichkeul, Bouhedma, and Jbil so that (i) the improved management contributes
to the well being of the populations living in and around the parks, and; (ii) the trends of
biodiversity degradation in these parks are arrested and/or reversed. The project will reinforce
the capacity of the Tunisian Government and its partners to protect and manage biodiversity
of national and global importance in a sustainable manner. The implementation of the
integrated park management plans with the active participation of the communities would
provide a model that can be replicated in other similar areas. The project will also contribute
to the execution of the Tunisian National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan adopted in
June 1998. The present project design reflects this strategy within its three components: (i)
reinforcement of institutional capacity; (ii) protected area management, and; (iii) public
awareness and education.
B. Approach
The project's approach to biodiversity conservation is based on community participation that
will take into account the needs of the local populations and will associate them in the
formulation of the management plans for each park. Each community has its own unique
dynamic. The issue of the size of the population living in Ichkeul and its spatial distribution,
for example, differ considerably from the situation in Bouhedma and Jbil. Thus, the measures
and scenarios for participation and the sustainable management of resources will have to take
into account the specific characteristics of each park. The project seeks to establish the bases
for a genuinely participatory approach involving the government and the local populations.
This development will be based on the conviction of both parties of the benefits to be derived
from participatory management and will require changes in behavior and attitudes to attain
the joint goals of biodiversity conservation and sustainable improvement of living standards
for the populations living in and around the parks. The project envisages the participation of
the communities through the creation of local development committees (DC) (Comites de
Developpement) as described below. The management plans for each park would be executed
for a period of five to fifteen years. The plans will focus not only on the technical aspects
(inventories, infrastructure, surveillance), but also on the strategic socio-economic and
sustainability issues (including scientific monitoring and evaluation, negotiations with the
local communities on the key priority actions to reduce the pressure on resources, and to
enhance sources of revenues and alternative livelihoods) to ensure the conservation of
biodiversity and sustainability of resource use.
C. Institutional Framework
The project's participatory approach to biodiversity conservation and natural resource
management will be carried out through the coordination with national, govemorate, and local
level institutions. The diverse activities entailed by the project will require the involvement of
other agencies and branches of government (agriculture, education, tourism, scientific
FILE COPY



research) as well as other actors (construction, tourist operators, consultant offices), socio-
professional organizations and NGOs in the field of popular participation and awareness.
The main institutions that will be involved in the implementation of the project and of this
process framework will be:
The Project Steering Committee (PSC) (Comite de Pilotage). Is a multidisciplinary body that
includes representatives of the following ministries: (i) Environment and Land use Planning,
(ii) Agriculture, (iii) International Cooperation and External Investment, (iv) Tourism, (v)
Finance, (vi) Economic Development. This committee will define the overall strategy and
guidelines to be executed during the project. The committee will have oversight of the
project's functioning and will evaluate and approve the work programs and annual budgets. In
particular, the committee will be responsible for the use and implementation of the Process
Framework during the life of the project.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) (Unite de Gestion du Projet).   The Project
Management Unit will be the central unit responsible for the coordination of project activities
and will ensure the soundness of the technical, scientific, and financial aspects of project
implementation. The PMU will coordinate and ensure the coherence of proposed actions
proposed by the Park Management Teams. The proposed actions will be discussed at the
Local Development Committee (LDC) (Conseil Local de Developpement). The PMU will
submit the annual work programs and budgets to the PSC for validation. The PMU will also
ensure that the technical, human, and financial means will be made available to the
implementing agencies and that the latter will work in accordance with agreed-on procedures.
The Regional Development Council (RDC) (Conseil Regional de Developpement) The
Council is located at the level of each Gouvemorat and it is a consultative as well as decision-
making body which has, inter alia, the following functions: (i) fornulation of the regional
development plans that must be integrated into the national social and economic development
plan; (ii) formulation of land-use plans outside of the municipal boundaries and review of the
urban planning for the gouvemorat; (iii) advising on matters of programs and projects planned
for the gouvemorat by the state and its agencies; and (iv) oversight of the execution of the
regional projects approved by various Ministries. In the project's implementation, the RDC
will be the instance of last resort for the resolution of conflicts between the Comites de
Developpement and the Equipes de Gestion du Projet. (See below section II-D).
The Local Development Council (LDC) (Conseil Local de Developpement). At the level of
each Delegation, this Council has the functions of (i) participating in the formulation and
implementation of the environmental protection plans, programs of nature conservation, and
natural resources management plans; (ii) advising on programs of local development and
proposing priorities and programming as well as participating in the formulation of regional
development plans. Within the project, the Council will be the focal point and forum for the
discussion of the proposed park management plans as well as the annual work programs.
The Park Management Team (PMT) (Equipe de Gestion du Projet). A Park Management
Team will be formed at each park, and will be responsible for the action planning and
programming. The Park Conservator will lead it. The team will include representatives of the
Ministries of Environment and Tourism, and will work in close collaboration with the
representatives of the local population through the intermediation of the selected members of
the Development Conumittees (see below) (Comites de Developpement). Technical staff will
be available to assist these teams. The Conservator is responsible for the day-to-day
organization and execution of activities in the park by the authority vested in him by the
Regional Agricultural Development Council (CRDA).
2



The Development Committees (DC) (Comites de Developpement). These committees will be
the base level institutions for the representation of the population, in order to ensure (i)
participation of the communities in the identification of local development measures within a
social-economic space (terroir), (ii) the provision of all relevant information on the needs of
the populations they represent, (iii) mobilization and organization of the population to
facilitate their participation in the development of the park management plans. As they
become more experienced, the Development Committees will have the option of becoming
legally recognized development entities such as Local Interest Groups (Groupements d'Intert
Collectifs ,GIC), Development Groups (Groupements de Developpement, GD), cooperatives,
etc.
The DCs will be organized at the outset of the project with the necessary accompanying
measures including awareness and training programs, so that the participation of the local
communities in the formulation of the park management and development plans will be
ensured from the beginning. These plans, with their economic and social objectives, will take
into account the actions necessary for the conservation of biodiversity and will be based on an
improved use of potential and available natural resources. They will include activities that
will permit the local, population's development of, and rational management of the natural
resources in the protected areas. These community development plans will be an integral part
of the park management plans.
II.    General Principles of the Process Framework
A. The Context: conservation and restriction of access to resources in the Protected
Areas
Some of the project components may trigger the Bank's Policy on Involuntary Resettlement
(OP 4.12) which also includes specific provision for the loss of access to natural resources in
parks and protected areas. To achieve its objective of biodiversity conservation, the project
may require the restriction of access to the resources in the defined core areas that are
currently utilized by the population. The protection of biodiversity in the core areas will
require the total restriction of access to its resources. In the rest of the parks certain activities
will be permitted. The activities planned for the implementation of the project, including
those that will result in the formulation of the park management plans, will be negotiated in a
participatory manner with the population, based on recognition of their needs and with the
objective of reconciling both the. social development objectives as well as the biodiversity
conservation objective of the project.
According to national legislation, the protected areas are considered the domain of the state as
forestry areas, and activities within them are regulated by the Forestry Code administered by
the Forestry Department. Different activities, including grazing, agriculture, and forestry
extraction and other uses are permitted in some areas. Restrictions on the use of these
resources can be envisaged where there is a risk of increasingly perturbing the ecosystem's
balance, or where human activities pose a direct threat to biodiversity. These limitations of
access are currently regulated by the existing legislation. In the event that there is non-
conformity with the requirements of the Bank's Policy OP 4.12, this process framework will
be used.
B. Process Framework for Community Consultation and Participation
Steps for the formulation of a participatory strategy. The participation strategy will
consist of (a) identification and carrying out a census of the people potentially affected by the
project; (b) definition of the eligibility criteria for the project affected populations; (c)
formulation of the criteria for the identification of vulnerable groups; (d) elaboration of the
3



process for consultation and dialogue; (e) propositions for the inclusion of the population in
the implementation of the project.
1. Community awareness and mobilization
A PMT will be formed for each protected area. These teams will be the main executors of the
process framework when called for through the formulation of action plans that will include:
a) Dissemination of information, the mobilization of stakeholders, and the creation and
training of DCs.
b) Information gathering and analysis concerning the specific use of resources and their
social impacts.
c) Formulation of a management plan in collaboration with the DCs.
d) Adoption of measures aimed towards the protection of biodiversity in specific zones
in cooperation with the DCs.
2. Participatory Measures
a) Participatory Mapping of condition and use of natural resources. Mapping will
provide precise information on (a) the spatial and temporal variation of resource use
(grazing, collection of fire-wood, medicinal plants, fishing, etc.); (b) methods,
location and conditions under which stakeholders and affected populations utilize the
specific resources; (c) customary rights and claims. In the project context the
households considered as dependent on the protected areas will be those that have a
direct impact on such areas. The participatory mapping will be an input to the
planning for resource use and for the definition and formulation of the mitigation
measures of any negative impacts.
b) Participatory Diagnostics. Are the base tools for a participatory approach, allowing
the identification of the populations and their activities including seasonal uses of the
protected areas, the means of communicating with the affected people, and the types
of resources they use. The diagnostics can also furnish information on the general use
of resources in the surrounding areas and they will be used as the baseline from which
mitigation measures as well as other accompanying measures can be defined
(training, integration into the management plans) and for monitoring and evaluation.
c) Participation and Consultation. Consultations with all concemed stakeholders have
already taken place during the preparation of the project. These consultations have
confirmed the validity of the participatory approach as well as underlined the need for
compensatory measures required for the people in the parks and surrounding areas
that may lose access to resources. The social analysis during project preparation has
already proposed the measures that will be required for the diffusion of information to
ensure the awareness and involvement of the communities from the onset of the
project. The information concerning the planned project activities and the
participatory mechanisms will be widely disseminated in both Arabic and French so
that the local populations are informed and involved from the outset of the project.
3. Creation of the Development Committees and Selection of Representatives for the PMT
The DCs are in the process of being organized and will be operational by the beginning of the
project. Each committee will be represented in the PMT. In order to ensure the participation
of the communities, the project will rely on the creation on the development committees at the
4



level of the douar or settlement (terroir) as appropriate. All the concerned population will be
able to participate in these conmmiittees and they will select a number of their members to
represent them. The modalities will be defined to ensure that the interests of women, in
particular, are represented in these committees.
For each protected area, a technical inter disciplinary team that will include different
specialists will be available to assist the park conservator. The team will include (among
others) a sociologist/anthropologist, community development specialist, and environmental
education and awareness specialists. The training of the personnel of the PMT and the
assistance for the necessary studies and surveys to be undertaken as well as the activities for
community organization will be the responsibility of the technical support team.
4. Key Steps for the Participatory Strate2v
a) Identification of affected people. There will be a distinction made between the people
directly affected by the restriction of access to resources in the protected areas and
those that claim rights for historical reasons (traditional land occupancy, collective
lands with a "temporary occupancy status").
b) Eligibility Criteria of project affected people. Eligibility criteria will be defined at the
outset of the project. They may include, inter alia, physical presence in the protected
areas for a certain number of years, dependency on the resources of the protected
area, and benefits or claims of use of the resources, etc.
c) Criteria for the identification of vulnerable groups. The most vulnerable groups in a
population should be identified early and as a priority because they would be the
population with immediate needs that can only be fulfilled through the use of existing
resources to secure their survival and food needs. Criteria for the identification of
these groups could be based on: inability to fulfill their dietary needs, no livestock or
only a small number of livestock and/or poultry, degraded and precarious habitats,
inability to ensure the schooling of children, use of small plots for subsistence or
having tenancy status, lack of permanent income, lack of access to basic
infrastructure, etc. Individuals and/or households meeting these criteria will have a
high priority for training in alternative revenue-generating activities and their
participation will be essential in the decision-making meetings where reduction of
access to resources of the protected areas are discussed, and participate with inputs to
the management plans.
C. Budget for the Execution of the Process Framework Provisions
The budget for the execution of this process framework is included in the overall project
budget (institutional support, training, education, and alternative livelihoods) and no
additional budget is envisaged for its execution.
D. Process of Consultation for Conflict Resolution and Modalities for the Settlement of
Claims.
It is likely that during the project implementation there will be conflicting views and opinions
concerning the utilization of resources of the protected areas. Where such conflicts may arise,
the DC and the PMT will be the forum for dispute resolution. If they cannot reach an
acceptable solution they will present their claims to the LDC that will strive to reach
appropriate solutions and measures. Should conflicts not be solved by these means, the claims
will be settled by the RDC.
5



E. Monitoring and Evaluation of the Process Framework
The measures taken to execute this process framework will be the responsibility of the PMT
and will be monitored by the PMU. The monitoring reports and the measures taken will be
submitted to the PSC by the PMU and will be followed closely by the Bank during project
supervisions. The performance indicators to ensure that the measures included in this process
framework are taken into account are included in the project log-frame (participation of the
population in the development committees, implementation of accompanying measures,
financial benefits accruing to the affected population, claims and dispute settlement, etc.).
An evaluation of the provisions of this process framework will be undertaken in the third and
fifth year of project implementation.



