Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23339-TUN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.2 MILLION (US$5.3 M1LLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 4, 2002
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EUQIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 17, 2002)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TND)
TND I = US$0.69
US$1 = TND 1.45
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANPE         National Environment Protection Agency
APAL         Agency for the Protection of the Water Front
ASIL         Agncultural Sector Investment Loan
ASIL2        Second Agncultural Sector Investment Loan
BCT          Central Bank of Tunisia
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CG           Coordination Group
CP           Contract Programs
CRDA         Regional Agncultural Development Council
DC           Development Committees
DG           Development Groups
DGETH        Direction of Barrages and Technical Studies
DGF          Directorate General of Forestry
DGFE         Directorate General of Finance and
DGLP         Directorate General of Land Use Plannmng
FARAH        Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FDP          Forestry Development Project
FMR          Financial Monitonng Report
FMS          Financial Management System
GFIC         Forestry Groups of Local Interest
GIC          Local Interest Groups
GOT          Government of Tunisia
IA           Implementing Agencies
ISC          Inter-Ministerial Steenng Committee
JBIC         Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
LCD          Local Council for Development
LDC          Local Development Committee
M&E          Monitonng and Evaluation
MELP         Ministry of Environment and Landuse Planning
METAP        Mediterranean Technical Assistance Program
MOA          Ministry of Agnculture
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
ONTT         National Tounsm Office
OPDI         Pilot Operations of Integrated Development
OPDI         Pilot Integrated Development Operations
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PMT          Park Management Team
PMU           Project Management Unit
QAG          Quality Assessment Group
RSCN          Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature
SIPF         Information System for Forestry Planning
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SSEPN        Monitoring and Evaluation System of National Parks
STDP         Second Forestry Development Project
TFDP          Third Forestry Development Project
TG            General Treasury
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
WSIL          Water Sector Investment Loan
Vice President: Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Chnstian Delvoie
Sector Director: Letitia Obeng
Task Team Leader: Shobha Shetty



TUNISIA
PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key perfornance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      7
3. Benefits and target population                                                     8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altemnatives considered and reasons for rejection                         12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          17
2. Financial                                                                         18
3. Technical                                                                         18
4. Institutional                                                                     19
5. Environmental                                                                     20
6. Social                                                                            21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                23



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  24
2. Critical risks                                                                   24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   27
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         28
2. Other                                                                            28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       29
L. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      43
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        44
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    48
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          62
Annex 11: STAP Review and Response                                                     64
Annex 12: Social Assessment                                                            70
MAP(S)
EBRD 31835



TUNISIA
PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: June 4, 2002                                Team Leader: Shobha Shetty
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie       Sector Manager/Director: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: P048315                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s): Environment
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                      Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
-Proj6ct FInancing Data
1 ] Loan     [ I Credit   pX] Grant     ( Guarantee      1 1 Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):
Fliatijpg Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local.       Forelg'n*       Tbtal
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             4.24            0.00          4.24
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                               0.16           0.00          0.16
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    3.59            1.74          5.33
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS                               0.15           0.00          0.15
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                          8.14           1.74          9.88
Borrower/Reciplent: GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Ministry of Agriculture
Address: 30 rue Alain Savary, 1002 Tunis
Contact Person: Mr. Ahrned Ridha Fekih Salem, Director General, DGF
Tel: (216-1) 842 687          Fax: (216-1) 801 922           Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Environment and Land Use Planning
Address: Centre Urbain Nord, Cedex 1080, Tunis
Contact Person: Mr. Najib Trabelsi, Director-General, Enviromnent
Tel: (216-1) 702 779          Fax: (216-1)238411             Email: DGEQV@mineatgov.tn
Address: Ministry of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment
Contact Person: Mr. Kamel Ben Rejeb, Director-General
Tel: 216-1-798-522           Fax: 216-1-799-069            Email: Multilateralenmci.gov.tn
Estimated Disbursements l Bank FY/US$m):
,3 20v03   2004    1   ,2005  V  2006  1 290°06  1 -2008 l       Q *
Annual      0.50       1.20      1.30       1.50       0.50      0.33
Cumulative     0.50       1.70       3.00      4.50       5.00       5.33
Project Implementation period: September 2002- August 2008
= w0 F- r bO amc



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The projectes main development objective is improved management and protection of selected national parks
for the purposes of conserving biodiversity of global importance and contributing to the overall improvement
in welfare of local populations.
2. Key performance Indicators: (see Annex 1)
Two categories of performance indicators have been identified. The first category would pertain to those
with direct impact on the global environment (technical bioindicators) and the second would include those
pertaining to improvement in the socio-economic conditions of local populations. The first category would
include: (i) stabilization or improvement of demographic status of key bio-indicators specific to each
national park (vegetative cover and distribution; local animal/bird populations; water management program
for Ichkeul) - see annex I for key species in each park The second category would include: (ii) % of
activities of the Annual Work Program that are entrusted to local communities; (iii) the participatory
process for the management plans and annual work programs through the Local Council for Development
(CLD) and the Project Management Team (PMT) is functional; (iv) number of tourism concessions in each
of the three parks; (v) overall improvement in management effectiveness as defined by the IUCN scorecard;
and (vi) creation of permanent deputy conservators in the three parks in charge of community and public
relations.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R 2000-46 Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/27/2000
The proposed project direcfly supports the CAS objective of consolidating long-term development in the
environment and natural resources management sector through the protection of Tunisia's natural resources.
The project would assist the Government of Tunisia in improving the conservation of biodiversity within the
protected areas through implementation of management plans at three national parks together with local
communities and capacity building at the regional and local levels to assure sustainable ecosystems
management and monitoring.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The proposed project complies with GEF operational strategy in the area of biodiversity conservation. It
primarily addresses the GEF Operational Program in the Biodiversity Focal Area OP 1 (Arid and Semi-Arid
Ecosystems). It also addresses, to a limited extent, OP 2 (Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems) in
one of the project sites (Lake Ichkeul National Park).
Tunisia has ratified the following major intemational environmental conventions and agreements dealing with
the protection of natural habitats and related species - CITES (1974); UNESCO World Heritage (1974);
Ramsar Convention (1979); Bonn Convention (1986); Desertification Convention (1979); Beme. Convention
(1995), and the Biological Diversity Convention (1993). Tunisia is also one of 6 countries participating in
the regional UNDP/GEF Conservation of Wetland and Coastal Ecosystems in the Mediterranean Region
Project to conserve biodiversity in the coastal ecosystems. The proposed project will not include coastal
ecosystems but the activities in the latter would strongly complement the proposed project's interventions.
The project is designed to support, through its relevant outputs, the following articles of the Convention on
Biological Diversity:
-2 -



* Article 6 - General measures for conservation and sustainable use (conservation management plans
for selected sites of biological and ecological interest);
*   Article 7 - Identification and Monitoring
* Article 8 - In-situ conservation (strengthened protected areas and environmentally sustainable
development in areas adjacent to protected areas, rehabilitation and restoration of fraile ecosystems);
*   Article 11 - Incentive measures (Participatory programs implemented with local populations);
*   Article 13 - Public education and awareness (improved public awareness on nature protection).
2. Main sector Issues and Government strategy:
Sector importance: Of the 870 species of plants that are rare, threatened, or endemic in North Africa, about
150 occur in Tunisia. There are an estimated 2200 species of plants in Tunisia, but less than 2 percent
represent globally threatened vascular plants (IUCN, 1997). At the national level, there are 239 rare and 101
very rare species. Tunisia's rare flora include 6 species endemic to the country, and about 80 species
endemic to North Africa and the northem Sahara. Many of the plants are valuable as a genetic resource.
Important forage plants (medicago, hedysarum), medicinal plants (Myrtus communis, Urginea maritima,
daphne gnidium), fiber plants (Stipa tenacissima) and plants of food value occur (Olea, Capparis). There
has been a decline in forest cover - from 3.3 million hectares in the Roman era to 841,000 hectares at
present, but several activities through Bank-supported projects have addressed this issue and forest cover is
improving again, albeit slowly.
Tunisian fauna is relatively less well studied, and has been in a substantive decline over the past
century. At present, all large mammals (except the wild boar, Sus scrofa barbarus) are considered
threatened. About 80 species of mammals, 362 species of birds, and more than 500 species of reptiles and
fish can still be found. Several mammal species are endemic to North Africa. Rare and endangered
mammals (IUCN Red Book, 1985) include the barbary hyena (Hyaena hyaena berbera), barbary deer
(Cervus elaphus berberus), dorcas gazelle (Gazelle dorcas massaesyla), cuvier's gazelle (G. cuvien), and
the slender-homed gazelle (G.leptoceros). Rare and endangered birds listed in the IUCN Red Book that
occur in Tunisia include, inter alia, the white stork, marbled teal, white-headed duck, red kite, peregrine
falcon, bearded vulture, and the Houbara bustard. Globally threatened species (all) number 110.
Root causes of biodiversity loss: Forest and vegetation degradation still continues due to burgeoning
population pressures with overgrazing, fuelwood andfodder collection being the primary culpnts. This has
exacerbated erosion and significantly contributes to the soils that are lost annually to desertification.
Inappropriate cultivation techniques in the steppes have resulted in wind erosion and dune formation.
Enforcement of protective measures is weak due to the absence of multi-disciplinary management plans, low
awareness, and weak institutional capacity.
Absence ofparticipatory approaches to protected area management: While the intent of the protected area
system is well-founded and is of great importance for the preservation and enhancement of biological
diversity, there is a clear need for the management systems currently in place to go beyond the traditional
approach to conservation. Hunting, overgrazing, and inappropriate agricultural practices of local
communities continue to pose a threat to the integrity of many of the protected areas. Since about 10 percent
of the Tunisian population (- 1 million) live within forest areas and/or in the vicinity of protected areas, it is
essential that the management of the protected areas integrate the needs of the local communities while
conserving naturl resources. Designing management plans that incorporate greater stakeholder participation
with the objective of linking conservation of biological diversity in protected areas with improved local social
and economic development will be essential to ensure long-term conservation.
Inadequate institutional capacity: The Ministry of Environment and Landuse Planning (MELP) is in charge
of policy formulation, planning and regulation, with the Directorate General of Forestry (DGF) in the
-3-



Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) being responsible for management of the protected areas through on the
ground daily surveillance, protection and management activities. There is no substantial overlap in the two
mandates, but coordination between the two Ministries is weak, and better integrative mechanisms especially
for data management are required. Habitat loss and poaching are seriously threatening much of the national
fauna. Fauna are in need of protection through improvement of law enforcement capabilities. Budgetary
constraints, lack of equipment and trained staff have reduced national park protection to the minimum.
Land tenure issues: Some of the national parks have local communities living within the park boundaries. In
the Ichkeul N.P, there are about 65 families living within the park. It is GOT policy not to evict anyone
already living in the park, although no new families are allowed to settle within park boundaries hereafter. In
Jbil, the park is apparently still used seasonally by the adjacent tribes, including the Mrazig, the Sabria, and
the Adhar and Ghrib. In the Spring months there are many families that go from Douz to spend time in the
desert and there is still hunting (although forbidden), in part because of foreigners that come specifically for
this purpose. There is lack of clarity on whether the tribes that previously used this area still consider that
they have rights of access to the park area and its resources, primarily as a passage way to other grazing
areas. The land tenure status of the former collective lands is also ambiguous.
Government strategy: Tunisia accords a high significance to biodiversity conservation and suswtainable uses
in its development effort. There is a strong political commitment towards enhanced conservation efforts and
its successful integration into a wider economic, social and cultural context. There is a growing realization
that earlier natural resources management interventions have sometimes failed to fully achieve their
objectives because community participation and insight into the planning, prioritization, and management
process were limited. There is now a high-level commitment to participatory natural resources management
in the Ministry of Agriculture which is moving to a reorientation from top-down planning in favor of a
collaborative approach with resource user groups such as the Development Committees (CDs) in the
Bank-financed Natural Resources Management Project (Ln - 4162) and the Northwest Mountainous
Development Project (Ln - 3691), and Groupements Forestiers d'Interet Collectif (GFICs; some of which
were formerly Associations Forestieres dInteret Collectif, AFICs) as in the Second Forestry Development
Project (Ln - 3601). User groups have been promoted first with rural potable water and tubewell irrigation
perimeters, but are still at their infancy among forest users and soil conservation groups, and are yet to be
extended to rangeland users. The Ninth Development Plan (1997-2001) identifies protection of forests,
national parks, and improved and rationalized management systems as a key element of a sustainable natural
resources management strategy.
A National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan were developed in a very participatory manner under a
Biodiversity Enabling Activity (GEF-funded; the World Bank being the Implementing Agency) and were
adopted by the Govemment in 1998. University academics, research institutes, and environmental NGOs
(local and intemnational) provided useful inputs into the preparation of the Biodiversity Strategy. The strategy
also benefited from bilateral assistance from Germany and Sweden. The key priorities of the national
strategy are strengthening the biodiversity knowledge base, prevention of the erosion of genetic resources,
improved protection and management of critical ecosystems, integration of biodiversity conservation in
relevant sectoral strategies, and strengthening of the institutional and regulatory framework. GoT is actively
looking to GEF and other donors to finance the main elements of its Action Plan and meet its obligations
under the Biodiversity Convention. GoT officially requested the Bank for assistance in obtaining GEF funds
for a protected areas management project in July 1998.
The proposed project is in line with the national priorities as articulated in the "Strategie Nationale de
Conservation et de Developpement de la Flore et de la Faune Sauvages et des Aires Protegees" (July 2001)
prepared under the recently closed Second Forestry Development Project
-4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project wij be the first to give concrete content to the Biodiversity Strategy adopted in June
1998. It will assist the Government of Tunisia in the implementation of integrated management plans with
increased community participation that would provide a basis for replicability for management of other
protected areas important for both national and global biodiversity. The proposed project would strengthen
the capacity of the Directorate General of Forestry (DGF) to plan, implement, and coordinate biodiversity
conservation at the local and national levels. The project preparation efforts will take a close look at
complementarity and leveraging issues with other Bank-financed projects (Natural Resources Management
Project (ongoing) and the Northwest Mountainous Areas and Forestry Development Project (under
preparation) and a number of community-based and environmental education projects sponsored by UNDP,
the EU, and GTZ. At the initial stage of preparation, this project was conceived of as an imnportant element in
the National Forest and Pasture Development Strategy, and as part of a potential follow on project after the
Second Forestry Development Project (SFDP) which closed in May 2001. However, the National Forest and
Pasture Development Strategy was delayed in its preparation and it is only now that it has been received.
The Government of Tunisia (GoT) and the Bank are keen on reviewing the Strategy in depth before
proceeding with any follow on project In March 2000, the Japanese Bank for Intenational Cooperation
(JBIC) and GoT began implementation of a 5-year Integrated Forest Management Project in the north of the
country. In the meantime, however, the experience under the SFDP with the pilot operations incorporating
local participation in forest management has impaited many useful lessons to the design of this project the
key ones being the importance of capacity building (of both the implementing agency as well as the
beneficiary populations) and a phased implementation to permit a "learning by doing" approach. Overall, the
results of this component were instrumental in ensuring the inclusion, for the first time, of funding for the
socio-economic development of forest populations into GoTs 5-year Econonic Development Plan
(2002-2006). The project is thus fully in line with GoTs strategy in the forestry sector, and more broadly,
natural resource management Although it would have been preferable to mainstream this project with a
follow on forestry project, it was agreed with GoT that this project would proceed in order not to lose the
momentum of the extensive preparation work already completed. The project would also liaise closely with
the Northwest Mountainous Areas and Forestry Development Project which will also adopt similar
participatory approaches to natural resources management.
The project design and implementation will also involve the Office National du Tourisme Tunisien (ONTT)
under the Ministry of Tourism who are part of the technical working group (along with the Ministry of
Environment and the DGF, Ministry of Agriculture) constituted under the Steering Committee. The GoT has
recently completed an action plan for promotion of cultural tourism and ecological tourism (PATC, Plan
d'Action de Promotion de Tourisme Culturel et de l'Environnement, 2000-2004) on tourism management
and development. The Government is aware of the positive linkages between cultural/natural heritage and the
tourism industry, and the strong impacts on local employment from cultural tourism and nature conservation.
International competition for tourism earnings have impelled GoT to acknowledge the need to adjust its
tourism policies. As part of its wider objective to expand high-value and niche tourism, GoT is interested in
developing the potential for ecotourism in the countrys national parks. The seven sites selected under the
Banks Cultural Heritage Project (ongoing) do not specifically include the three national parks under the
proposed project. However, they form part of the larger sample of 31 sites of intervention developed by GoT
which includes 5 national parks/reserves, of which two are included in the proposed project (Bouhedma and
Ichkeul). The Ministry of Tourism expects to use the proposed project as a vehicle to promote ecotourism
initiatives. The proposed biodiversity project will build on the momentum generated by recent planning
initiatives, and establish clear links with ongoing donor-financed projects and other national projects.
-5-



Selection of project sites:
The three project sites were selected primarily on the basis of their importance to global biodiversity. Since
this is Tunisia's first major protected area management project, it was also deemed important to include
representativeness as a criterion in the selection in order to develop ecosystem-specific management plans
that could be replicated elsewhere in the country. Each of the ecosystems represented by the three sites is
distinct and will present different challenges to its sustainable management It was decided to limit the
number of parks to three in order to keep the project size manageable by the existing institutional capacity.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project includes the following three components: (all $ amounts are indicative only)
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening ($2.02 M): The objective of this component will be to reinforce
the institutional capacity of the Directorate General of Forestry (Ministry of Agriculture) and the Ministry
of Environment in the sustainable protected areas management. This component will support the following:
(i) strengthening of the Project Management Unit; (ii) training; (iii) technical and scientific studies; and (iv)
establishment of a scientific monitoring system for the protected areas. The training programs would have a
strong regional focus with modules targeting park management personnel, local governments at the regional
Commissariats Regionaux de Developpement Agricole (CRDA) level, and other potential partners
(including the private sector and NGOs) in participatory approaches to protected areas management. It
will also include training programs for the Directorate General of Forestry (Ministry of Agriculture),
Ministry of Tourism, and the Ministry of Environment and Landuse Planning at the central level (where
justified).
Component 2: Protected Areas Management ($U.S 7.18 M): The objectives of this component are to: (i)
manage and restore the ecosystems in the three national parks to protect the globally inportant flora and
fauna; (ii) assist in the development of ecotourism activities; and (iii) establish, with the local populations,
community development plans compatible with the objectives of sustainable biodiversity conservation. The
three parks (out of 8) chosen include Ichkeul, Bouhedma, and Jbil. These three parks cover unique and
distinctly different ecosystems - wetland, arid-mountain/pseudo savanna, and desert respectively (see
Annex 2 for a brief description of each park). The project will develop detailed management plans, provide
equipment, training and small infrastructural facilities in all three sites. In addition, it will establish
mechanisms to reduce the unsustainable use of natural resources, particularly those resources that in the
past were shared common resources such as grazing lands and forests. The project will develop strategies
for ecotourism that will demonstrate the links between conservation and economic benefits for the local
communities. The management plans will emphasize not only the technical aspects (inventory,
infrastructure, surveillance), but also strategic and sustainability issues (participatory review and
assessment of existing management plans and practices by local communities, negotiations with
communities on priority activities to reduce pressures on the protected areas, support for alternative
livelihoods consistent with biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, scientific
monitoring), and would be implemented during the project period. This component would also include the
(parallel) cofinancing by the French GEF for the Bouhedma and Jbil national parks. Under the ecotourism
component, the following activities are envisaged. (i) global study on the potential for, and modalities to
develop ecotourism around national parks and reserves including tourism concessions with a focus on the
three project sites; (ii) creation and infrastructural equipment for recreation areas, parking, entry gates,
botanical garden, animal enclosures within the park; (iii) equipment and material for the welcome centers
-6 -



and ecomuseums (including construction of a new ecomuseum at Douz for Jbil); (iv) purchase of
horse-drawn carriages and other modes of eco-friendly internal transport; (v) support for the creation of
local community homestays in Ichkeul; (vi) information campaign and production of documents to promote
ecotourism (posters, maps, guides, postcards etc.) and (vii) taining of ecoguides and the staff of the
welcome centers and ecomuseums in protected area management/conservation in accordance vith the
training component under component 1. These activities will be complemented by the baseline activities to
promote ecotourism by GOT in the parks of Ichkeul and Bouhedma under the PATC. This envisages the
development of supporting infastructure outside the park environs including improvements in
electrification, rural water supply, and communication facilities, improvement of access roads, planting of
trees, signage and directions, construction of toilets and waste disposal areas, and construction of a
geological museum at Ichkeul.
Component 3: Public Awareness ($US 0.68 M): This component would aim to build public support for
biodiversity conservation at the local/park level and regional/governorate level. Action plans will target
priority groups such as local governments, site visitors, and local school children for raising the awareness
of specific stakeholder groups about the importance of, and opportunities for, biodiversity conservation
within the three parks. Possible delivery mechanisms include mass media, formal and informal education,
and development of linkages with local NGOs, schools, tourism agencies, and other organizations to
promote public understanding about biodiversity resources. For each of the parks, flagship species/themes
(espece phare) have been identified that will form the nucleus of all public awareness campaigns as well as
research, monitoring and conservation activities. These would be the accacia raddiana, and the sand
gazelle (gazelle leptoceros) for the parks of Bouhedma and Jbil respectively and the theme of water
resources management for the case of Ichkeul. Activities will be developed at the local/community level
around these key species/themes in order to develop the grassroots awareness necessary to sustain
long-term biodiversity conservation.
, Coiilponeft            .ZSector    , Cobsts       iiRanci  '; B,ank. 8 .Rn andIf 
______________ (US$M)  XTtilUA         fnJiI 4V$)        ___
1. Capacity Building and  Institutional       2.02    20.4    0.00      0.0     1.55    29.1
Institutional Strengthening:  Development
2. Protected Areas       Natural Resources    7.18     72.7   0.00       0.0    3.25    61.0
Management:              Management
3. Public Awareness and  Other Education      0.68      6.9   0.00       0.0    0.53     9.9
Education:                                                 I                         I
Total Project Costs                   9.88    100.0   0.00      0.0     5.33   100.0
0.00      0.0   0.00       0.0    0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                   9.88    100.0   0.00      0.0     5.33   100.0
2. Key poUcy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project is the first major initiative in Tunisia dedicated to improving the management of the national
parks. It is also the Bank's first GEF operation in Tunisia in national parks management. The Government
considers this to be a pilot project specifically pertaining to the following aspects:
(i) involvement of local communities in the development and management of the parks;
(ii) introduction of ecotourism activities; and
(iii) improving financial sustainability of the parks.
-7-



The project will support the development of a truly participatory approach to protectd areas management
in the three project sites. Participatory approaches used in other Bank projects (CDs, AFICs) will be
adapted to suit local conditions. The project will support the introduction of ecotourism action plans at each
site. Insofar as the financial sustainability is concerned, the project will support the introduction of new
recurrent cost financing mechanisms for the three parks (including, but not limited to increased ecotourism
revenues and private concessions) with a view to transferring greater management responsibilities to the
local community groups. The government has agreed to test these new approaches by year 4 of project
implementation. These new financial mechanisms as well as the participatory management approaches
implemented during this project will provide the basis for replication in other national parks and reserves
within the broader government strategy for national parks management with a view to promoting greater
involvement of local communities and increased financial sustainability.
3. Benefits and target population:
Global and regional benefits: The project will result in global and regional benefits by contributing to
sustainable conservation management in three of Tunisia's well-known national parks covering about
180,000 ha. representing diverse ecosystems with biodiversity of global and regional importance. The
project will also establish linkages and collaboration to support and benefit from conservation initiatives in
neighboring countries. The global benefits include: (a) conservation of critical Saharan and Mediterranean
wetland habitats and enhancing the probability of their long-term conservation; (b) development of
incentives to maintain protected areas in the long-term; (c) established capacity to ensure adequate
management of protected areas sustainably; and (d) new knowledge concerning the feasibility of
community-based natural resource conservation approaches and the factors associated with success.
Two of the sites (Bouhedma and Jbil) are important priorities under the Bonn Convention for the
conservation of Sahelo-saharan antelopes. The Ichkeul lake and marshes have long been recognized
(together with Dofiana in Spain, the Camargue in France and the El Kala region in Algeria) as one of the
four major wetland areas in the western basin of the Mediterranean. The Ichkeul National Park is a very
high-profile site in Tunisia (covering an area of some 12,000 hectares) being one of the few sites listed
under three intemational agreements: (a) Biosphere Reserve (1977); (b) World Heritage Convention
(1979); and (c) Ramsar Convention (1980). However, the development activities upstream of the lake have
resulted in a cut-off from freshwater sources that has posed a serious threat to the health of the Lake
Ichkeul ecosystem. As a result, the park was included in the Ramsar's Convention Montreux Record
("Record of Ramsar sites where changes in ecological character have occurred, are occurring, or are likely
to occur") thus indicating the great threat to which the wetland is exposed. The project would support the
updating and calibration of the mathematical model (financed as part of an extensive study on the park by
KfW during 1993-95) for the management of the lake using test releases of freshwater in order to establish
a scientific basis and calendar for the releases of freshwater necessary for maintaining the health of the
lake's ecosystem. The lake and marshes of the park provide habitat for hundreds of thousands of migratory
birds (in particular ducks, geese, storks and flamingos). Improving the management of the park would help
increase the numbers of wintering ducks and coots have decreased from an average of 200,000 individuals
to a level situated around 50,000 at present. Other important species include the wintering geese, herons,
egrets, the globally threatened Marbled Teal (Anas angustirostris), Purple Gallinule (Porphyrio porphyrio
), and the White-headed Duck (Oxyura leucocephala) (also globally threatened). The national park of Bou
Hedma is home to the extremely rare gazelle dorcas, and the oryx antelope. Other fauna of importance are
the striped hyena, golden jackal and crested porcupine. The park houses 8 of the 14 species recognized as
endemic in the National Biodiversity Study such as the Acacia raddiana, Juniperus phoenicea,
Pistacia atlantica, Thymelea sempervirens, Tetrapon villosus, Tricholena teneriffe, and
- 8 -



Cenchrus ciliaris, and Digitaria communtata. In addition, the park has potential for the
re-introduction of fauna, relatives of species that once roamed but have since disappeared, such as the
gazelle dorcas, oryx - the straight homed antelope, addax (desert antelope), and red-neck ostriches. Some of
these have already been re-introduced in the park in limited numbers. The national park of Jbil is a
relatively new park and consists of very unique Saharien ecosystems that have not been very well studied
thus far. The park contains internationally important biodiversity, some of which is found only in Tunisia.
Globally important species include the sand gazelle (gazella leptoceros), gazella abiod, and remarkable
flora like caligonum that attain several meters in height in the sand dunes of the grand erg.
National benefits: Investments, training, and decentralized institutional arrangements would address
priority conservation planning and management problems common to many important and threatened
biodiversity sites throughout Tunisia and elsewhere in the region and would, therefore, provide models for
replication in priority conservation sites in other parts of the country and region. The improved
management of the protected areas and buffer zones will help in the conservation of important plant and
animal species within their native habitats. The project would contribute to broadening the livelihood
strategies of participating comnunities and contribute to the long-term stability of the ecosystems through
improving the welfare of the local populations. National-level beneficiaries include GoT (MELP,
MA/DGF, MT) whose institutional capacity will be strengthened to address biodiversity conservation
needs. The project will improve Tunisia's institutional arrangements and strengthen its capacity for
biodiversity conservation while raising public awareness and providing improved opportunities for
environmental and conservation education.
At the local level, the project would build mechanisms and capacity to assist local stakeholders,
specifically, the local communities dependent on the resources of the protected areas, local governments,
and NGOs to participate in the preparation and implementation of conservation management plans. Results
from the social assessment carried out at the three parks during project preparation have indicated that the
project will contribute to poverty alleviation objectives (See Annex 12 for details). In Ichkeul, income
inequalities are stark, with more than 500/o of the families in the park earnng less than 1000 DT/year (-
$U.S715) and less than 5% possessing annual average incomes of more than 45,000 DT/year
(-U.S$32,000). In Bouhedma, as in Ichkeul, there is a wide variation in income distribution, from 3,000
DT per household a year (an average per capita income of 253 DT or USD $177) to about 5,000 DT a
year. This means that half of the population is below the poverty line. In fact, the majority of the
households in the park are considered officially indigent, which gives them access to subsidized medical
services with a payment of lODT a year, but there are households so poor in Bou Hedma that they cannot
afford even this. In spite of the material economic poverty of the people of Bou Hedma, the traditional
culture remains vibrant. Women produce traditional artisan work such as carpets, fly (tent strips), cereal
bags, all woven on traditional looms. The project will support the development of the traditional knowledge
and capacity of the artists and artisans to make this a potentially important source for income improvement
and for the provision of altemative livelihoods. Sustainable management of the project sites will benefit
poor rumral communities and local economies adjacent to the sites through stimulation of socio-economic
development including ecotourism as well as activities based on the sustainable management of natural
resources of protected areas. The project is also expected to have a positive gender impact because most (if
not all) of the traditional artisanal work is produced by women, and women are also involved in gathering
fuel to feed their families, agriculture, grazing etc. The public awareness component will be focussed on the
local communities (especially on women) in and around the protected areas and at the local govemments in
order to develop the grassroots awareness necessary to sustain a participatory approach to protected areas
management.
-9-



4. Insttutional and Implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 6 years
As with the project preparation process, an Inter-Ministedal Project Steering Committee (PSC) comprising
representatives from the Ministry of Agdculture, Ministry of Environment and Landuse Planning, Ministry
of Tourism, Leisure, and Artisanat, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development, and Ministry
of International Cooperation wiUl be retained during project implementation. The PSC wiU be chaired by the
Ministry of Environment and Landuse Planning. It wil be responsible for providing overaU strategic
guidance, project oversight, and assistance in resolving issues associated with project implementation.
Project Coordination at the National Level: Currently, the Ministry of Environment and Landuse Planning
(MELP) has overal responsibility for managing the project preparation grant and overaU project
preparation. However, during appraisal it was agreed that the project management unit would be located in
the Directorate General of Forests (DGF) within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) due to the fact that the
bulk of the activities under the project fall under the purview of the MOA. The transfer of responsibility
from MELP to MOA during project implementation has been discussed with and fuUy supported by aU the
concerned Ministries.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) (Unite de Gestion du Projet). The Project Management Unit wil
be the central unit responsible for the coordination of project activities and wiUl ensure the soundness of the
technical, scientific, and financial aspects of project implementation. The PMU wiU coordinate and ensure
the coherence of proposed actions proposed by the Park Management Teams (see below). The proposed
actions wiU be discussed at the Local Development Committee (LDC) (Conseil Local de D6veloppement).
The PMU wiU submit the annual work programs and budgets to the ISC for validation. The PMU wiU also
ensure that the technical, human, and financial means wiU be made available to the implementing agencies
and that the latter wil work in accordance with agreed-on procedures.
The Local Development Council (LDC) (Conseil Local de Developpement). At the level of each
Delegation, this Council has the functions of (i) participating in the formulation and implementation of the
environmental protection plans, programs of nature conservation, and natural resources management plans;
(ii) advising on programs of local development and proposing priorities and progamming as wel as
participating in the formulation of regional development plans. Within the project, the Council wil be the
focal point and forum for the discussion of the proposed park management plans as weUl as the annual work
programs.
The Park Management Team (P) (Equipe de Gestion du Projet). A Park Management Team wiUl be
formed at each park, and will be responsible for the action planning and programming. The Park
Conservator wiU lead it. The team will include representatives of the Ministries of Environment and
Tourism, and will work in close collaboration with the representatives of the local population through the
intermediation of the selected members of the Development Committees (see below) (Comites de
Developpement). Technical staff will be available to assist these teams. The Conservator is responsible
for the day-to-day organization and execution of activities in the park by the authority vested in him by the
Regional Agncultural Development Council (CRDA).
- 10-



The Development Committees (DC) (Comits de Developpement). These committees will be the base level
institutions for the representation of the population, in order to ensure (i) participation of the communities
in the identification of local development measures within a social-economic space (terroir), (ii) the
provision of all relevant information on the needs of the populations they represent, (iii) mobilization and
organization of the population to facilitate their participation in the development of the park management
plans. As they become more experienced, the Development Committees will have the option of becoming
legally recognized development entities such as Local Interest Groups (Groupements d'Inte^t Collectifs,
GIC), Development Groups (Groupements de Developpement, GD), cooperatives, etc.
The DCs will be organized at the outset of the project with the necessary accompanying measures including
awareness and training programs, so that the participation of the local communities in the formulation of
the park management and development plans will be ensured from the beginning. These plans, with their
economic and social objectives, will take into account the actions necessary for the conservation of
biodiversity and will be based on an improved use of potential and available natural resources. They will
include activities that will permit the local population's development of, and rational management of the
natural resources in the protected areas. These community development plans will be an integral part of
the park management plans. Local communities would thus participate in project implementation in several
ways. First, they would participate in the formulation of sustainable management plans which directly
affect them. Second, they will have a financial interest in the park's management since they will be primary
sources of local knowledge as well as labor. Third, they would also participate through the establishment
of contractual arrangements, Contrat Programmes (CP), with the implementing agency, NGOs or other
agencies with whom they may be involved. The DC approach has been tested in the ongoing projects
(Natural Resources Management; North-West Mountainous Areas Development) and has proven to be
successful.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Financida management The financial management arrangements are detailed in annex 6 and
summarized below.
Accounting and Financial framework The Financial Management System (FMS) in place in the MOA
and MELP, is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the pubic
sector and more specifically to governmental institutions. MA implementing agency for the project is
maintaining an accounting system based on the cash basis and the outline of budget components according
to the provisions of the Public Accounting Law. Execution of the public expenditures is
decentralized at the level of the CRDA. Technical Directorates at the central level, as is the case
for DGF, are playing a strategic and overseeing roles according to the agreed five year plan and
the annual budget. Projects with financing from external donors, are managed at the central level
through a unit which is officially designated, to coordinate and oversee the project
implementation. A team of specialist is nominated to control eligibility of expenditures,
compliance with legal documents and donors requirements, at the stages of budgeting,
procurement, and disbursement as well as accounting and reporting duties. The Central Bank of
Tunisia (CBT) is the authorized institution to proceed with all payments from special accounts
(SA) and to issue SOEs for replenishment. Direct payments are handled directly by DGF. In
addition, the DGF also handles the transmission of eligible payments to the CBT which has overall
responsibility for the management of the Special Account.
- 1-



Accounting and financial reporting for the project. Accounting and financial reporting will be assured
centrally by the Project Management Unit (PMU) within DGF. DGF and MELP would be responsible for
financial management and accounting duties for activities managed under their responsibility. CRDAs and
the regional directorates of MELP involved in the project implementation at the regional level, would
maintain simplified accounts and analysis of the activities managed under their responsibility. Such
reports would be sent respectively to the DGF and MELP every three months for accounting and
monitoring purposes. DGF and MELP would maintain accounting records for components under their
responsibility, prepare and disseminate sub-project accounts and financial reports. MELP would also
ensure timely transmission of these accounts and reports to DGF. DOF would be responsible for
aggregating the financial data and the issuing of the Financial Monitoring Report to the Bank every six
months. DGFE will assist DGF during the first to improve the financial management capacity of the
accounting and financial team.
Audit. The General Controller of Finance (CGF), as auditor acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed to
carry on an annual audit according to the International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International
Federation of Accountants and the Bank's Guidelines and specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable
to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements. An
annual audit report will be made available to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The PMU would be responsible, with inputs from all
implementing units, for monitoring of financial and physical progress on investment implementation, for
progress reporting on the execution of policy measures and development impact, for coordinating
disbursement. On these basis, the PMU will prepare agreed reports.
The above arrangements were detailed during appraisal and reconfirmed at negotiations.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project preparation considered and rejected the following alternatives:
* Focus on all 8 National Parks and 4 of 16 Reserves. This scenario was not selected due to the limited
resources available to implement a project of this size. Sites were selected so as to include: (a)
representation of different ecosystems; (b) examples of the major challenges to biodiversity
conservation in Tunisia, and (c) biodiversity of national and global significance. In addition, the
feasibility of implementing conservation management given the limited institutional capacity within the
DGF towards a more participatory approach to protected area management was taken into
consideration in selecting the location and number of sites. Experience gained at these three sites will
allow for a phased "learning by doing" approach.
*   Creation of a separate protected area management agency. There is no substantial overlap between the
MELP, in charge of policy formulation, planning, and regulation, and the DGF which manages the
protected areas. Joint managemnent of the Ichkeul N.P is a good example of collaboration between the
MELP and DGF. It was agreed with GoT that while efficiency gains would be sought through the
project with specific emphasis on capacity and institution building, no major revamping through the
creation of a separate agency would be required at this time.
*   Privatization of the protected areas: While this suggestion has merit in its potential for reducing
Government costs associated with protected area management, the Government currently lacks
adequate regulatory and monitoring mechanisms to ensure that biodiversity conservation concerns
- 12 -



would not take second place to the drive for profit in areas where concessions are possible. Further,
given the question of limited profitability, it is not clear that there would be sufficient demand from the
pnvate sector to take over the complete management of the parks. However, the project preparation
will examine the possibility of partal concessionmng of activities to the private sector in order to
increase revenues and improve efficiency.The project will help strengthen the Government's capacity to
regulate and monitor biodiversity conservation, while exploring a range of options for future financing
and decentralized management of protected areas.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agendes (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratngs
(Bank-flnanced proJects only)
ImplBmentation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  obe    {DO)
Participatory natural resources   Natural Resource Management      S             S
management; poverty alleviation   Project (Ln 4162, $26.5 m,
ongoing)
Improved forestry management      Second Forestry Development      S             S
Project (Ln 3601; $65m, closed
May 2001)
Rural development; sustainable range, Northwest Mountainous Areas  S             S
forest, and farming activities    Development Project (Ln 3691;
$26.0 m, closed June 2001)
Coastal Zone Management (World    Gulf of Gabes Marine and
Bank/GEF)                         Coastal Resources Protection
Project (under preparation)
Participatory natural resources   Northwest Mountainous Areas
management; poverty alleviation   and Forestry Development
Project (under preparation)
Other development agencies
European Union/EC:                Conservation of natural
Conservation of natal resources  resources in the humid zones of
the Mediterranean (Regional
MEDWET Project: Tunisia
Project Site: Sebkhat El
Kelbia)-ongoing
UNDP/GEF:                         Conservation of Wetland and
Biodiversity conservation         Coastal Ecosystems in the
Mediterranean Region (Tunisia
project sites -Dar Chichou,
Korba Kelibia, and El
Haouaria)- ongoing
UNDP/GEF/FFEM:                    Marine Protected Areas (under
Biodiversity conservation         preparation)
UNDP-GOT:                         Development of alternative
Alternative livelihoods           livelihoods for populations in
- 13 -



and around the N.P of El Feidja
(ongoing)
GTZ - environmental management    Ongoing technical assistance
projects
JBIC - Forestry Management        Integrated Forestry
Management Project
Gernany - Resource conservation   Promotion of Resource
Conservation and Game
Management (1992-95)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This is the first Bank-supported GEF project in Tunisia and the first GEF/Bank project focusing on
protected areas management in Tunisia. Lessons leamned have been drawn to a large extent from the Bank's
experience in the forestry sector in Tunisia and other Bank/GEF projects in the region and elsewhere. The
preparation process is also focussing on lessons learned from other community-based natural resources
management initiatives.
From OAG review of GEF-supported biodiversity projects in Africa: (i) Integration of the biodiversity
conservation agenda into the broader national development agenda is essential; (ii) Biodiversity projects
need to focus more on methods for dealing with socio-economic pressures in perimeter zones where
populations may be dependent on forest exploitation; (iii) Project design should take into account technical
and stakeholder reviews in the final design; and (iv) Clearly defined goals and objectives are essential to
focus on project efforts, monitor progress, and demonstrate impact. On a broad level, the QAG's
recommendation to include more environmental expertise in developing the CAS has been implemented in
the Tunisia case. The new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) has had a substantial input from the
environment/rural development sectors with a special mission that prepared the Environmental Input to the
Tunisia CAS report. The CAS includes the proposed Bank/GEF projects in its focus on consolidating
long-term development in environment and natural resources management.
The proposed project would also seek to identify complementarities with ongoing environment/natual
resource management projects in order to better mainstream biodiversity conservation. The biodiversity
conservation efforts in the proposed project will seek to emphasize the underlying causes of biodiversity
loss (overgrazing, fuelwood overexploitation etc.). The proposed project design supports detailed social
analyses of the park populations and would define options and mitigation strategies to endangered
livelihoods if there is to be a limitation in the use of resources.
From Bank-wide Portfolio Review of Biodiversitv Projects: The portfolio review identified 9 criteria to
assess the strengths and weaknesses of biodiversity projects in quality at entry: borrower ownership;
stakeholder participation; clarity of objectives and components; application of lessons learned;
identification of critical risks; integration of biodiversity into project design; detail of implementation
planning; analysis of institutional capacity; use and adequacy of indicators. In the proposed project,
borrower ownership is high. Since it is a free-standing biodiversity project, integration of biodiversity into
project design is a given. The proposed project supports preparatory studies that will address the other
criteria in detail.
From Bank Review of Issues in Ecotourism and Conservation: In a review of 23 protected areas with
projects designed to generate local economic development found that while many projects promoted
- 14 -



ecotourism, few generated substantial benefits for either parks or local people. In most countries,
ecotourism alone will not promote conservation - rather, it is one component with other elements like
improved education, improved access to information, improvements in park management, and increased
economic opportunities other than just ecotourisnL The review also recommends zoning as a management
tool to ensure controlled tourism does not degrade the park's biodiversity resources as was the case with the
Tangkoko DuaSaudara Nature Reserve in Indonesia where "ecotourists control Tangkoko, probably to the
detriment of wildlife", and the Royal Chitwan Park in Nepal where despite well organized education
programs, "disturbances to the ecology have become obvious features".
The proposed project will explore the potential for ecotourism in each park and zoning will be an essential
feature in defining how visitation will take place. In Tunisia, the disturbances due to increased tourism is a
negligible risk. Indeed, the challenge would be how best to develop this potential while mitigating any
negative effects. Baseline surveys will be carried out on the seasonality of tourism interest, activities of
tourism in the park including the type of tourist attracted, type of visitor experience desired by the tourist
and the associated infrastructure expected, in addition to strong baseline data on the ecosystem
characteristics. Any promotion of ecotourism in the project sites will be strictly managed. Public awareness
and environmental education are important components of the proposed project.
Tunisia Forestry Development Project (Ln 2870-TUN: closed) and Second Forestry Development Project
(Ln 3601-TUN: closed): As the first forestry operation financed by the Bank in Tunisia, the Forestry
Development Project (FDP) was the testing ground to provide the technical and institutional basis for the
follow-on Second Forestry Development Project (SFDP). The FDP eliminated price distortions and
monopolistic situations in the sector, and the implementation agencies and population developed a new
awareness of the need for environmentally sound exploitation of forest resources. The FDP and SFDP have
underlined the need for participation by the local populations in forest and pasture management The
ongoing experience with OPDIs (Pilot Operations of Integrated Development) has indicated that where the
utilization of a participatory methodology is new for the implementing agency and communities, a phased
approach should be used to allow a "learning by doing" approach. This is particularly important for
activities such as the OPDI, where rapid implementation would most likely not permit enough time to carry
out training activities, thereby leaving the local community groups in a weak position to adequately
participate. The SFDP has also shown that investments linked to participatory activities should be carried
out after an initial phase of consultations and training of beneficiaries. These activities will allow time for
communities to adjust to working as a group, be cohesive and develop participatory mechanisms;
capacity-building of NGOs as well as user groups is critical to ensure successful implementation. In the
proposed project, the local communities have already begun the process of organizing themselves. Trust
fumds have been identified to support capacity-building of these nascent groups in the interim period before
the project becomes effective.
Jordan: Conservation of the Dana and Azraq Protected Areas Project (GEF/World Bank/UNDP): The key
factor behind the success of Dana was the involvement of the local population (Bedouins inside the reserve
and villagers around it) in the forefront of the project from the very start Building on local skills and
initiatives, mixed with a new vision and new ideas, opportunities were created for local people to gain a
livelihood from the nature reserve without destroying it. Carefully-regulated ecotourism gives local people a
fair share of the action and dividends while "putting nature first". The institutional strengthening component
of the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature (RSCN) produced a revitalized RSCN with a clear
vision, with a truined and motivated staff and, most importantly, with the will to make the protection of
Jordan's natural heritage succeed in.practice.
-15 -



The proposed project has also identified similar issues and has included in the project design a detailed
participatory process involving local communities and local/regional institutions, NGOs to develop and
implement management plans for the protected areas that will balance the need for protecting the parks and
meeting the needs of the local people. Institutional strengthening of the DGF is also an important
component of the project The project preparation phase includes a study tour to Dana for the park
conservators, and other DGF and MELP personnel to learn from the Jordanian experience and work with
RSCN to set up customized training programs for Tunisian staff.
Morocco: Protected Areas Management Project: Although this project is still in an early implementation
phase, the key aspects in project design were a decentralized implementation structure and the involvement
of the local populations in the preparation of the six Douar Development Plans to be implemented in the
first year as part of the conservation management plans.
The proposed project will also bring together the local communities, and NGOs, with the local forestry
arrondissements in the respective govemorates in a participatory fashion to gain the commitment of the
local people.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Government of Tunisia has established a proper strategic framework for biodiversity protection and
environmental management: (i) A National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and the State of the
Environment were completed in 1997; (ii) a number of intemational conventions (Biodiversity, Bonn,
Ramsar, etc.) have been ratified, and (iu) A National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan were
developed in a very participatory manner under a biodiversity Enabling Activity (GEF-funded; the World
Bank being the Implementing Agency) which were adopted by the Government in 1998. University
academics, research institutes, and environmental NGOs (local and international) provided useful inputs
into the preparation of the Biodiversity Strategy. The strategy also benefited from bilateral assistance from
Germany and Sweden. Tunisia accords a high significance to biodiversity conservation and sustainable
uses in its development effort There is a strong political commitment towards enhanced conservation
efforts and its successful integration into a wider economic, social and cultural context There is a
high-level commitment to participatory natural resources management Ongoing World-Bank financed
natural resources management/forestry projects have involved local communities in a participatory
approach to project implementation. The recent Tunisia CAS (FYOO-FY03) includes the proposed project
in the lending/grant operations.
The Government requested assistance from the World Bank to prpare a possible GEF project for protected
areas/biodiversity in July 1998. The preparation grant is being executed by the Ministry of Environment
and Landuse Planning (MELP). An Interministerial Steering Committee was formed in 1999 to oversee
preparation and implementation of the project. This committee comprises representatives from the Ministry
of Environment and Land Use Planning (MELP), Ministry of Agriculture (DGF), Office National de
Tourisme Tunisien (ONTT), Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic
Development, Ministry of Education, Agence Nationale de la Protection de l'Environnement (ANPE),
Agence de Protection et d'Amenagement du littoral (APAL), Ministry of International Cooperation, and
ATLAS (NGO). The technical working group (with representatives from MELP, DGF, and ONTT) has
been closely involved in the formulation of the terms of reference for the preparatory study which was
approved by the Steering Committee in April 2000. This group was also responsible for the preparation of
the bidding documents, and the bid evaluation which were completed in December 2000. The
French-Tunisian consortium which was awarded the contract for the preparation study commenced work in
mid-February 2001.
- 16 -



5. Value added of Bank and Global support In this project:
The Bank has had a long-standing dialogue with Tunisia in the forestry sector and, more broadly, natural
resource management through the two Forestry Development Projects, Natural Resource Management
Project, Northwest Mountainous Area Development Project In the environment sector, the Bank has been
involved in technical assistance through the Meditemnean Technical Assistance Program (METAP)
mainly in the area of Environmental Impact Assessment, and policy support in the integration of the
environment into specific sectors of waste management, water, tourism, transport, and trade. The proposed
project will be the Bank's first GEF operation in Tunisia. Despite existing bilateral support for the
environment sector in Tunisia, the Government has requested that the Bank continue to be engaged in order
to continue the policy dialogue, secure donor coordination, and bring international best practices to bear on
the design and implementation of the country's first GEF protected areas management project.
The GEF value added comes from its global experience in the design, implementation, and financing of
biodiversity projects. The GEF support is justified by the regional and global value of the project sites'
biodiversity. GEF funding will help raise visibility and global support for the management of Tunisia's
protected areas and reserves. It wil also enable the project to target globally valued and threatened plants
and habitats. Other GEF/Bank biodiversity projects in the region (notably, Morocco, Jordan) will provide
opportunities for promotion of exchange of ideas, cross-fertilization with other GEF projects, and
strengthened biodiversity monitoring and evaluation, review, and scientific oversight
Consultation. Collaboration and Coordination between Implementing Agencies (As'): The project has been
developed in close consultation with UNDP who are currently working with the Govemment in an
alternative livelihoods project in the national park if El Feidja. Lessons learned from this project are
included in the project design. In addition, UNDP is also preparing a GEF project on marine protected
areas which has been coordinated with this project as well as the Bank's Gulf of Gabes project also under
preparation. The local UNDP representative has participated in several wrap-up meetings after Bank
missions. GTZ which has a strong presence in the Ministry of Environment has assured the Bank of
support during project implementation
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
A standard cost-benefit analysis is not usuaUy conducted for GEF biodiversity projects. Instead, an
incremental cost analysis has been carried out as part of project preparation. The project design seeks to
emphasize cost-effectiveness through minirnizing budget impact, maximizing involvement of the local
communities, using existing institutions, and building on existing studies and experience.
Incremental costs: The incremental costs are expected to cover project expenditures on components that
have global benefits. Project activities that have global benefits are eligible for GEF-financing. The
baseline expenditure scenario has been calculated to establish current and planned funding amounts for
biodiversity conservation and protected area management at the three project sites and for national-level
- 17 -



planning dunng the life of the project. The estimated difference between the cost of the baseline scenano
and the cost of the GEF alternative represent the incremental costs. This represents the incremental cost of
achieving global environmental benefits through strengthening policy and institutional frameworks for
protected areas management and biodiversity conservation, developing mechanisms for sustainable
resource use in the buffer zones, strengthening local and national capacity for conservmng globaly
significant biodiversity, and enhancing public awareness of global enviromnental issues pertaining to
biodiversity conservation. It is expected that the GEF contribution towards the incremental costs would be
of the order of $5.33 miDion (with a French GEF contribution of about $0.1 million). (See Annex 4 for IC
analysis)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Conventional financial rate of return analysis is usually not carried out for GEF biodiversity projects. Total
government financing during the project implementation period is estimated to be about U.S$ 4.24 milion
equivalent. This wiDl mainly go towards meeting baseline costs that result in primarily national benefits.
The incremental costs, which generate the global environmental benefits, will be financed through the GEF
grant and the French GEF (parallel cofinancing) and will be of the order of $5.43 million equivalent
During the first year of project implementation, a study wil be launched to examine options for ensuring
financial sustainability of the park management in the long-term, inter alia, revolving funds, private
concessions, share of ecotourism revenues etc. Agreement was reached with the Government that the
outcome of this study wil be implemented on a pilot basis towards the final years of project
implementation. It is expected that these new financial mechanisms as well as the management approaches
identified during this project will provide the basis for mainstreaming these aspects in the broader
government strategy for national parks management with a view to promoting increased financial
autonomy.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is not expected to have a significant fiscal impact on the GoT budget. Recurrent costs of the
project are estimated at about $200,000 annualy on average which is about 0.3% of the total recurrent
budget of the MA.
3. Technical:
Moving away from top-down "technician" input, the project will implement an approach to protected area
management that is inclusive of stakeholders and integrated into the rural landscape. The choice for such an
approach implies technical solutions that are diffue, often based on traditional knowledge, and adapted to
participatory plamning and decision-making processes. Fortunately, Tunisia has already acquired
experience in this domain with the implementation of the UNDP project in El Feija National Park with
WWF assistance and several other (Bank and non-Bank financed) natual resources management projects.
Two of the project parks, Jbil and Bou Hedmna, are nested in terrestrial arid ecosystems where the threat to
vegetation and wildlife is best addressed with a significant decrease of consumptive activities. Still, several
families traditionally use the parks' rangeland and a grazing or browsing ban is not socially acceptable.
The project will thus rely heavily on dialogue to organize a different utilization of the rangeland. The
participatory dialogue will be the opportunity for current users to draw upon their indigenous knowledge
and traditional range use techniques. Park managers will present range users with scientifically tested
"natural succession enhancement techniques" such as zoning, rotations, consideration of plant-rest period,
avoidance of most fragile areas, temporary fencing, etc. as well as and for extreme cases, assisted
- 18 -



regeneration such as scarification of crusted areas, seeding, revegetation of dunes etc. The objective is to
define, and agree on, a resource-use approach that is both acceptable to the communities and favorable to
the vegetation and wildlife. Drastic technical solutions of the past, such as permanent fencing, will be
avoided as much as possible.
The Ichkeul National Park, which is a very ecologically sensitive wetland, will require much more technical
input than those of the arid land parks. The operation of the mathematical model, the monitoring and
analysis of the physico-chemical parameters of the lake, as well as the decision on water release and
sluice-gate operation, require equipment and scientific skills that are currently beyond both the communities
and park managers. This would inherently imply a less participatory process. The National Environment
Agency (ANPE) will ensure technical management of the lake water supported by the General Directorate
of Dams and Major Hydraulic Works (Direction G6n6rale des Barrages et des Grands Travaux
Hydrauliques (DGBGTH)). Local knowledge and participatory decision-making will still be relevant to
Ichkeul but is likely to be limited to the management and use of the mountain resources (jebel) as well as to
other activities such as ecotourism development.
In all cases, technical input will be required for the final design of Park Management Plans as well as to
conduct ecological monitoring (e.g. line transect or aerial survey of wildlife) and, generally for all research
activities whose scientific protocols will be defined and implemented by universities.
Replicability: Because the approach is new and based on dialogue as well as because the ecosystems at
stake have high recovery inertia, results may be slow and it may take time before robust lessons are
available. Still, if early success can be demonstrated, the Government of Tunisia intends to replicate this
approach in the other national parks in the country. The community participation aspects in particular are
expected to be utilized in the management plans of the other national parks and reserves, as well as in
natural resource management projects. This project is viewed as an opportunity for "learning-by-doing" and
the choice of the three sites offers a variety of ecosystems and management styles that can be useful
elsewhere in the country. Multi stakeholder dialogue and partnership is gradually reaching national
strategies and decision-makers. It is likely to be registered as one of the main thrust of the envisioned
changes to the sections dealing with park and wildlife management in the existing legislation. It should be
noted that the approach tested in the desert park of Jbil could be used in the proposed Morocco Bas Draa
National Parck, which protects a similar ecosystem, and vice-versa. The latter is currently in the World
Bank/GEF pipeline for preparation.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Currently, MELP is responsible for project preparation with oversight by the multi-disciplinary steering
committee. However, during project implementation, DGF (Ministry of Agriculture) will take the lead for
overall project coordination. This is due to the fact that most of the field-level activities will fall directly
under the domain of the MOA and hence, would be better placed than MELP to carry out project
coordination and implementation.
4.2 Project management:
The proposed project will have a project management design that is synonymous with the Ministry of
Agriculture's (MOA's) management of its overall investment budget Project accounts and financial
management will be an extracted sub-set of the MOA's detailed accounts for its investment budget. The
decentralization of the investment and recurrent cost budgets to the CRDAs initiated in the Second Forestry
Development Project (SFDP) will continue with overall guidance and M&E being undertaken by DGF at
-19-



the central level.
4.3 Financial Management
The financial management system relating to this project was reviewed with the objective to determine
whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the Bank under
OP/BP 10.02. The assessment, which included visits to MOA (DGF and DGFIOP), MELP, Ministry of
Finance (MF), and Ministry of Economic Development (MED), was focused on the accounting system,
internal control, planning, budgetng and financial reporting system to be used during project
implementation, as well as the fonrat and contents of the project Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) to
be submitted by the Bank. The financial management arrangements suggested for the project satisfies the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The reporting system used for the WSIL and
Agriculture Services Project, will be extended to cover the proposed project.
The identified risk area assessed as medium, is related to implementation of the project by two independent
entities and their regional structures. This risk would be mitigate by the issuing of defined rules and
procedures in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and a close supervision by Bank's staff during the first
year.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The CRDAs have gained considerable experience in procurement matters through the
implementation of ongoing Bank-financed projects. The decentralization of procurement will
continue under the proposed project The experience gained under ASIL, ASIL2 and the SFDP
will prove useful in the implementation phase of the proposed project in the CRDAs of Bizerte
(Ichkeul N.P), Kebili (Jbil N.P), and Sidi Bouzid (Bouhedma N.P).
Disbursement Issues:
Disbursements from the GEF grant would be made on the traditional system (reimbursements with full
documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and direct payments). As with other
operations, all efforts would be made to ensure better coordination between physical and financial
implementation aspects.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The DGF will provide, with effective and efficient staff input, the essentials of a Project Management Unit.
This unit will be strengthened under the project in terms of M&E capacity, equipment and necessary
software. It will maintain computerized project accounts and supporting documentation and records so as
to pernit a comprehensive itemized trace of all transactions. Copies will be forwarded to the Central Bank
of Tunisia which will manage paymnents out of a Special Account These accounts and procurement
documentation processes have already been tested under the ongoing Bank projects and have proven fully
satisfactory. The DGF will also implement a reporting system acceptable to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for enviromnental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is not expected to have any negative environmental impacts of any kind. It is expected to
generate significant positive environmental benefits through the establishunent of effective management
systems to conserve the natural integrity and biodiversity of Tunisia's ecosystems in three national parks.
Infiastructure-related activities are expected to be small-scale involving mainly the refurbishment of visitor
-20-



centers, marked trails, and signage. They will be carried out in a manner that minimizes negative
environmental inpacts. This will be done through ensuring that the relevant environmental provisions in
accordance with Bank guidelines are specified in the terms of reference (TORs) and all construction
contracts. The protected area management plans to be developed under the project will involve definition of
land and resource use zones within the parks and define specific measures to be undertaken to ensure
sustainable management of the biodiversity resources. Key stakeholders will include the local communities,
CRDAs, and NGOs. The development of the management plans will include all the key stakeholders and
constitutes an environmental management plan per se. No resettlement is envisaged. The Bank will ensure
that all the three management plans are designed in accordance with the standards set out by the safeguard
policies, specifically those pertaining to OD 4.01 and the new guidelines (O.P 4.12) pertaining to impacts
on local populations in legally designated parks and protected areas.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
n.a
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: n.a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n.a
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Monitoring indicators include biodiversity indicators as well as indicators of public participation.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Social analyses have been carried out at each of the project sites as part of project preparation. These have
included a thorough analysis of previously existing documents (including legal documents) and studies as
well as field consultations with a broad range of stakeholders, including government, institutional, local
tourist and commercial organizations, and direct beneficiaries. Annex 12 provides a detailed discussion of
the common key points and conclusions of these assessments. These analyses show the specific problems
in each of the parks that contribute to biodiversity degradation. One of the root causes lies in the deep
poverty of the inhabitants, and their use of some of the parks' resources in view of a lack of other livelihood
opportunities. Thus, technical measures to support biodiversity conservation must include accompanying
social measures developed jointly with the inhabitants in or adjacent to the parks in order to stand a chance
of success. The preparation studies document clearly that the populations living either within the parks'
boundaries (minimal) or adjacent to them, have a great interest in participating in the project. They see the
project as an opportunity to contribute to the conservation of the biodiversity resources which they
recognize as precious, and at the same time derive income from employment in conservation and park
management activities. The assessments have also identified the environmental, social, economic, and
cultural opportunities and constraints that must be addressed in each of the park management plans to be
developed and implemented with the direct participation of beneficiaries, NGOs and government agencies
adhering to the guidelines prescribed in Guidelines for Using Social Assessment to Support Public
Involvement in World Bank-GEF Projects.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 21 -



Participation in project identification and preparation: The basic concept and objectives of the proposed
project were identified as top priorities in the National Biodiversity Study and Action Plan. This plan was
developed under a Biodiversity Enabling Activity (GEF-funded; the World Bank being the Implementing
Agency) and was adopted by the Government in 1998. University academics, research institutes, and
enviromnental NGOs (local and international) provided useful inputs into the preparation of the
Biodiversity Strategy. The project preparation has been guided by an Interministerial Steering Committee
which has representatives from all the key Ministries as well as NGO representation, and in consultation
with local level governments and stakeholder/beneficiaries. These consultations have led to the
awareness-raising of the population about biodiversity conservation and their role in its management, and
have led to the formation of development committees at the community level that will eventually be
formalized as Groupements dfnteret Collectif The process of project preparation has also bridged an
important gap between the administration and the local populations.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The NGO, Atlas, is a member of the project's national steering committee. In the past, other NGOs have
been involved with DGF in the pilot integrated development operations component (OPDIs) of the SFDP.
Experience under the SFDP has shown that many of the NGOs are new and do not have sufficient capacity
to carry out the training and awareness-raising that were foreseen under the OPDI component. The project
preparation team has examined the obstacles previously faced by the OPDIs and plans to address these
inefficiencies within the project. One of these problems is the legitimacy of representation of the
communities in these associations and groupements. The project would address these issues by the
formalization of the naturally existing community groups in creation of Comites de Developpement and
subsequently into other associational forms. These groupings (either AFICS or others) could serve as
potential collaborators in the planning and development of the protected area management plans. It is
planned that NGOs which are sufficiently mature will be tapped where possible for information exchange
and collaboration. The project will also work with other conservation NGOs such as the WWF Alliance in
North Africa to ensure complementarity of activities and benefit from any possible synergies.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project envisages the creation of protected area management plans that are based in the regional
CRDA. These area management plans will be developed jointly with the concerned population in and
around the protected areas. These plans will include a definition of the roles of the communities and local
organizations in park management, the ways in which the communities will develop alternative livelihoods
and reduce or eliminate the use of any park resources, and will also define the processes of participation
that will be an intrinsic part of the overall set of management plans. The institutional arrangements needed
at each of the proposed sites will be different in each case, but the broad principles will be that the
management functions will be shared between the CRDA-DGF and the groups of primary beneficiaries
organized at the local levels specifically for this project. The stakeholders' own reaction has been that the
best guarantee of success, and achievement of the planned social development outcomes, is the genuine
participation of all stakeholders.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The creation of associations of benficiaries and their participation in the formulation of the management
plans, will be the first steps in raising the awareness of the population of beneficiaries and other interested
stakeholders about the objectives of the project and the expected social outcomes, among others the key one
of poverty alleviation. These plans will establish mechanisms for appropriate local participatory monitoring
- 22 -



and evaluation by the concerned stakeholders and beneficiaries. The indicators to monitor performance will
focus on the social benefits derived by the population in and around the parks, including their employment
opportunities, access to alternative sources of livelihood and revenue, and the benefits derived from direct
participation in the management of the parks and their resources.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?_
Policy                                  A0JkiIcllit
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0C Yes   No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                        * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            0 Yes * No
Projects in Internatlonal Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects In Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The proposed project is in its entirety devoted to solve the questions of biodiversity conservation with a
participatory approach. Infrastructure-related activities are expected to be small-scale involving mainly the
refurbishment of visitor centers, marked trails, and signage. They will be carried out in a manner that
minimizes negative environmental impacts. This will be done through ensuring that the relevant
environmental provisions in accordance with Bank guidelines (OD 4.01) are specified in the terns of
reference (TORs) and all construction contracts. The management plan will thereby constitute an
environmental management plan and the Bank will ensure that this conforms to the standards of OD 4.01
as a condition for financing. The project has also ensured that the activities are in accordance with the
guidelines specified in O.P 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. In order to guarantee this, a Process
Framework (conforming to para 7 of OP4.12) acceptable to the Bank has been submitted as a condition of
appraisal. This includes, inter alia, provisions to ensure that local people will not be evicted from the parks
or restricted in habitual access to them without their consent (except for restrictions on commercial
hunting), and that participatory plans with full and informed prior consent will be developed to reduce
pressure on resources within the protected areas. This Process Framework will be referred to in the legal
documents. The formation of Development Committees (DCs) will provide the means by which they can
jointly and voluntarily undertake protection of park resources and find alternatives to the use of any
resources to which they currently have access. There is no anticipated action that will result in resettlement
or in any further restriction of access to the resources in the existing parks. The management plans to be
developed under the project will be in accordance with Bank safeguard policies and will not conitravene any
policy requirements. These same plans will define land and resource use zones within the parks and
identify the specific measures to be undertaken to ensure sustainable management of the biodiversity
resources. Key stakeholders in the formulation of the management plans will include the local communities,
CRDAs (park conservators in particular), and NGOs. The development of the management plans will
include all the key stakeholders and will constitute an environmental management plan per se. The project
team as well as the team responsible for the preparation studies have taken into account all appropriate
safeguard policy issues. The key issue in the project is that of legalizing or otherwise recognizing the
current occupants of the parks, and in the case of lbil, of recognizing the legitimate users of the park
- 23 -



spaces. The Administration is receptive to the idea of inclusion of the park occupants in the process of
developing park management plans, but is constrained on the legal front regarding regularizing their status.
The challenge of the project wiU be to ensure that participation is truly inclusive and meaningful to the
local communities including the current occupants of the park. The Process Framework provides a basis for
ensuring this while meeting the requirements under O.P 4.12.
F. Sustalnability and Risks
1. Sustainabillty:
Social sustainability: The project design envisages the participation of local communities and other
stakeholders in the development and implementation of the park management plans which should ensure .
social sustainability. Active participation of NGOs and the potential participation of CDs and GFICs
(where applicable) are also envisaged. The Govemment's continuing commitmnent to decentralization wil
also contribute to the social sustainability of the project.
Financial sustalnability: The continued recurrent cost funding of the park management after the project
closes has been assured by the Govemment of Tunisia. The government recognizes that an effective system
of protected areas is an essential element of sustainable forest management and have committed to
contribute to the baseline costs of the project. The track record of the Government in earlier Bank-financed
projects, specifically in the area of natural resources management in this regard has been good. Examples
include the Northwest Mountainous Area Development Project, First and Second Forestry Development
Projects, the Natural Resources Management Project, and the Agricultural Sector Investment Project
However, it is also recognized that current public expenditures on management of the other five national
parks wiU be insufficient to develop and maintain the necessary management plans for effective
conservation of biodiversity. Discussions during project preparation and pre-appraisal have indicated that
the Govemment is wiUing to explore new options to ensure financial sustainability. A detailed study is to be
undertaken in this regard to examine options such as allocating a share of the ecotourism revenues to
support the management of the three parks in the project, setting up of trust funds for each park with the
sponsorship of large public and private sector enterprises etc. Other mechanisms under consideration
include a earmarked share of sales revenue of a line of special products from the national parks and
earmarking special taxes on lodging and transport in the national parks. The capitalization of the specific
financing mechanisms for the thee parks in the project as well as the other five parks wil be tested in the
final years of the project based on the results of the study. The government has carried out a study of
ecotourism potential in five national parks (of which two are included in this project) as part of its PATC.
The project wiU also finance a more detailed feasibility study on ecotourism in this project to address the
issue of financing long-term recurrent costs.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The current institutional framework does   M         The institutional framework for park
not provide the necessary incentives and             management is imperfect, centralized, and
work environment for park staff and                  bureaucratic and based on outdated concepts of
partners to apply their newly acquired               exclusion and control. Institutional reform of
skills and use technical/management tools.           national parks management is envisioned and
will be supported by the project The Tunisian
administration can provide, under the right
guidance, an environment for adequate
-24 -



perfornance and opportunities. The project will
provide advisory services and training to
facilitate change.
The administrations of parks and dams      M         The Bank is confident that the water
cannot agree on a reasonable five -year              management authority in the Ministry of
rule and calendar for water release;                 Agriculture, the National Environment
Protection Agency (ANPE) and the parks are
committed to finding a solution to the fresh
water needs of Ichkeul. The project will finance
the calibration and fine-tuning of the
mathematical model/technical solutions in order
to provide a solid scientific basis for the
calendar for water releases.
The current drought experienced by          S        Tunisia has expenenced four consecutive years
Tunisia continues during the five-year               of drought. Beyond the serious impact on
project period;                                      agriculture, it also dininishes the water storage
of the dams upstream of Lake Ichkeul. If the
drought lasts longer, and with the increasing
urban needs for water, it may be difficult to
justify substantial release into the lake. The
drought is also affecting the quality of grazing
areas in and around Bou-Hedma & Jbil.
Communities who are already poor may find it
even more difficult to engage in the project
activities and bear its constraints. Should the
drought continue, the project will refocus some
activities from park management to drought
mitigation to ensure that this event does not lead
to additional resource off-take in the selected
parks.
Tourism concessions are not granted on a   N         The involvement of tourist operators will be
competitive and transparent basis that               gradual and kept to a relatively low scale.
maximizes involvement of communities                 Concessions that are granted will concem
and benefits the communities and the                 limited activities and will be closely monitored
parks.                                               in order to fulfill professional and ethical
requirements. Park management activities
including new tourism activities are designed to
include specific benefits for the
parks'populations.
Because of important subsistence needs     M         From social assessments and discussions with
that are met by the natural resources of             communities, the Bank is reasonably confident
the park, local populations do not react             that communities are willing to account for
positively to the conservation awareness             conservation needs. However, many are
messages.                                            extremely poor and uneducated and may not be
able to either give the attention required to the
messages or to modify behavior to account for
them. The project will attempt to identify the
most vulnerable groups and help them, as a
-25 -



priority, with alternative livelihood activities and
training.
Constraints induced by better management   M        The project's Process Framework has been
and surveillance of the parks which cannot          formulated to ensure that populations do not
be solved by the project, are not addressed         suffer from the added constraint of better park
by other development programs.                      surveillance. However, because the parks are
in areas of relatively high poverty, a
participatory approach will seek to define
mechanisms that can both alleviate poverty and
conserve biodiversity Nevertheless, the areas
surrounding the parks will need much more
development attention than the project can
provide. The Bank is confident that the
Govemment and other projects (e.g. IFAD) are
now increasing their support to these areas to
promote overall socio-economic development
From Components to Outputs
The DGF lacks financial management and     M        The assessment of the financial and procurement
procurement capacity to enable timely               management in the project management unit in
availability of project services, goods or          DGF has identified shortcomings and proposed
work and monitoring of expenditures;                 a plan for capacity building. The Bank will
closely supervise this unit to ensure that its
performance meets Bank standards.
Staff appointed to the UCP, SSEPN and      S        The Bank's assessment of staff capacity is
parks do not possess sufficient time and             ambivalent. Among the people likely to be key
expertise to fulfill the mission that is            project players, many have a solid capacity and
requested from them.                                 commitment both to the new park management
approach and to plannig for their
implementation. Unfortunately, staff quality
appears to be highly variable, and appointments
often are not based on capacity or past
performance records nor congruent with the
work load. The Bank has required that a system
for monitoring of staff redeployment and
performance be set-up.
Annual Government budget enables the       M         The Administration possesses sufficient staff to
proposed redeployment of staff;                      redeploy them to the identified key positions in
parks. The Bank will closely supervise these
appointments and has required that the DGF
present a time-bound plan to fulfill the human
resource requirements as defined by the project
The park administration and its partners   S         Poaching by outsiders in desert areas is a
succeed in stopping poaching in ibil;                serious issue in the Sahara, Sahel and Asian
deserts. While the Tunisian administration,
park management authorities and local
communities are adamant that this practice must
be stopped, it may not be easy to achieve. The
Bank will ensure that such events are
-26-



documented and highlighted in the media
through component 3. Current changes being
proposed in the Forestry Code may be more
effective in controlling these practices in the
future.
Sociocultural and tenure constraint are not  M      Land and resources tenure in arid pastoral areas
obstacles to the modification of the Jbil           are always diffuse and difficult to understand.
Park limits.                                        The project will fund aU necessary work to
increase this understanding among all
stakeholders, including the govemment, and
establish bases of mutual understanding.
Because the proposed management of the park
is participatory and designed to improve the use
of pastoral resources and other resource use
practices, the Bank is confident that the
community wiUl endorse the proposal to
re-define the park's boundaries. The initial steps
may be taken but not completed during the life
of the project because of the time required to
redesignate boundaries.
Schoolteachers agree to the additional    N         Past experiences with school teachers in Tunisia
workload required to implement the                  have shown that they are usuaUy very interested
conservation awareness program in                  in broadening the scope of their teaching
primary schools.                                    particularly when the subject is related to the
environment and when new didactic material is
provided. The Bank rates this risk as very low.
Overall Risk Rating                        S        Despite the above analysis that ranks most risks
as being Low or Moderate, the Bank assessment
of implementation capacity (procurement,
financial management) and staff performance
leads to an overaU risk ranking as substantial.
The potential for the continuation of the current
drought contributes to this ranking. Still,
because this project is viewed by the
Govermment as a pilot to a new approach to
park management and because the park
administration is committed to a legal and
institutional reform, it is important that the Bank
and GEF remain parlners and help with an
instrument that can assist these reforms and test
them in the field.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
- 27-



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Covenants
The Recipient shall no later than March 31, 2003, establish and thereafter maintain for each Project
National Park in a form and with functions, membership, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank a
Park Management Team. Each PMT shall be responsible for the planning and programmning of Project
activities to the Project National Park
The Recipient shall no later than June 30, 2003, establish and thereafter maintain for each Project National
Park in a form and with functions, membership, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank a
Development Committee.
Accounts and Audits
The Government will assure that the annual audit reports, with an opinion on the statements of expenditure
used for certain disbursements and on the special account, are sent to the Bank within six months of the end
of the fiscal year of the Borrower.
The Recipient will open and manage a Special Account in dollars.
Management Aspects
The Recipient will take all necessary steps to assure that the Project Steering Committee for ovemall
management of the project is established and functional no later than October 31, 2002.
The Recipient will take all necessary steps to assure that the Project Management Unit (PMU) is
established and functional with the necessary technical and human resources acceptable to the Bank no
later than December 31, 2002.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
The Recipient will prepare and furnish for the Bank's review and comments not later than March 31 and
Septemnber 30 in each fiscal year, a report, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress achieved
during the preceding six months in the financial and physical implementation of the project, and on
performance and impact indicators.
A mid-term review would take place by June 30, 2005.
- 28-



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A draft for Item 3 has been received and will be finalized at appraisal.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Shobha Shetty
Team Leader                       Letitia A. Obeng                     stian Delvoie  '
Sector Manager/Director           . untry Manag rlDirector
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
= Key P1lformance                Data ,C4(Wo     S- -
HI  r.hyW,,ObJ9ectIves             Indicators    . x             .-
Sector-related CAS Goal:.   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Consolidating long-term     Successful protected area  Biodiversity monitoring     Continued political support at
development through         management approaches      system                      all levels for sustainable
protection of the environment replicated in other national                         protected area management
and sustainable use of natural parks and reserves in Tunisia                       and biodiversity conservation;
resources.                  with a resulting improvement
in biodiversity conservation.
Protecting biodiversity
contributes positively to local
communities and the national
economy.
GEF Operational Program:
OP 1: Arid and Semi-Arid Zone
Ecosysteas (Primary); oP2:
Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater
Ecosystems
Global Objective:           Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Management and protection                                                          GoT continues to implement
of biodiversity in three    Ichkel                                                 policies/programs aimed at
selected protected areas (PAs) - 2 stands of Potamogeton are  Scientific monitoring; wildlife  promoting sustainable
in Tunisia results in       reestablished in Y5        inventory; vegetation transect;  management of protected
arresting/reversing trends in  - index of land-cover of sirpaies  satellite images  areas;
arretin/reersig tend in increaes by 50% in Y5                               aes
biodiversity degradation.   - average frequency index of  Annual reports of conservators
geese increases by 200%     and partner research institutions  Public support for biodiversity
(comparison of ref. average of  (IRA, ANE, etc.)        conservation may develop
Yrs -1, 0, I to average of Y2, 3                        more slowly than the rate that
4)                          Survey reports consolidated in  would have been required to
lSou-Hedma                  the SSEPN (French acronym for  support government actions in
- Pop. of gazelles dorcas 150  National Park Monitoring and  time to avoid permanent
ind., mhoor 40 & oryx 150   Evaluation System)          damage to Tunisia's
distributed in al protected zones
of the park by Y6           Progress and supervision    biodiversity.
- Abundance index of Acacia  reports.
radiana > 2m increases in
Bou-Hedma and its surrounding
by Y6
Ibil
- Abundance index of sand
gazelles and dorcas gazelles
increases by 15% in Tbil and its
surrounding by Y6
Improved management of the  % of population (disaggregated  Surveys carried out by a  Other partners (Government or
three parks contributes to the  by gender) convinced of the  specialized firm to assess  other donors) provide additional
improved welfare of the     direct and indirect economic  public opinion at the    support towards economic
populations within and     interest of the three parks:  beginning, middle and end of dalevelPtint and POverty
Y3      Y6                               alleviation in the vicinity of the
- 30 -



around the parks.           Direct        10      20   project.                   three parks since the projecfs
Indirect      10      20                               potential for poverty alleviation
is limited.
15% of park budget is allocated
to services rendered by local
communities in Y6.
Annual reports of park
Monetary benefits (DT)      conservators (detailing local
captured by the local       expenditures and receipts of
populations (disaggregated by revenues notably from
gender)                     ecotourism)
Park   Employment
Revenues
Ichkeul     a        b
Bouhedma    c       d
Jebil        e        f
Percentage of women who:
a) belong to the Development
Committees;
b) play active leadership roles
in their organization;
-31 -



Key Performance      '   Data C4(!    I, . '                    ' t,   r'      '
,1ffle'J chy  of  Q Wectlves          Indicators           _____________________;       ____________________
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Institutional             1. I At least 80%/o of the Annual  Annual reports; Annual Work  The current institutional
Strengthening:               Work Programs are implemented Programs; Supervision Aide  framework provides the necessary
Capacity of the administration every year;                memoire; Audits             incentives and work environment
(forestry, environment,                                                                for park staff and partners to
tourism) and their partners  1.2 Equipment and works are                               apply their newly acquired skills
acquired or contracted according                          and technical/management tools.
(scientific community and    to procurement planning in 80%a                               e
local populations) for       of cases;
biodiversity conservation and
protected area management is 1.3 Planning, monitoring and
improved at the central,     budget control are considered
regional,and local levels.   satisfactory from Y2 on.
1.4 From Y2 on, the Annual
Work Programs and Annual
Reports are satisfactory
1.5. High-level park staff, chiefs  Monitoring and evaluation
of forests "arrondissemenf',  reports of training results and
conservators of the three parks  follow up of trainees; Annual
and their deputies master and use report of PMU
community planning and
communication tools in Y6.
1.6. 500h of members of local
communities who have benefited
from training are involved in a
park management related activity
in Y6
1.7. 100% of permanent staff of  Research activity reports;
the three parks have received  publications; Annual reports of
training to upgrade their skills  partner research institutions;
and adapt them to their position. cross verification of above
documents with Management
Plans, Annual work Programs.
1.8. Results from monitoring and
research are used in the
Management Plans and in the
Annual Work Program design
from Y2 on at Bou-Hedma,
Ichkeul and Y3 on at Jbil.
1.9. The SSEPN is used in daily  Cross verification of SSEPN
management of the three parks  database with Annual Work
from Y3 on.                  Programs and Annual reports;
field supervision; Mission reports
from SSEPN cental staff.
2. Protected Areas
Management:                  2.1. The three parks have    Regional plans; Management   Before the end of YI, the
The national parks of Bou    influenced the regional plans for Plan of each park; Minutes of  administrations of parks and
Hedma, Ichkeul, and Jbil are  water, livestock, agriculture,  regional consultation meetings.  dams agree on a reasonable
Hedter managched   andtably are forestry and tourism.                                  six-year rule and calendar for
better managed, suitably                                                               water release.
- 32 -



integrated in the rural economy                           Minutes of LDC meetings; cross
and contribute to local                                   verification of minutes with  The current drought does not
development                                               Annual Work Programs.        extend over the six-year project
period.
22. The participatory process for
the Management Plans and
Annual Work Programs input by
the Local Council for
Development LCD (consultation)
and Park Management Team
(design) are functional from Y2
on.
2.3. % implementation of the  Tableaux de bords of planning
Project action plan in the three  and monitoring of activities;
parks: Y3 (50°h) & Y6 (100%)  Conservator's annual reports.
2.4. Reduction of illegal activity  Reports and datasheet of
index in the three parks and  monitoring of illegal activities;
periphery between Yl and Y6.  Conservator's annual reports.
Brac . Graz. Circul . Cut
- Ichlkeul na  2  na   2
- Bou-H. na    2  na   2
- Tbil    2   na   2   2
2.5. In Y6, at least one tourism  Concession contracts; Records of Tourism concessions are granted
concession operates satisfactory  tour operators, concessionaires;  on a competitive and transparent
to the CLD and CD on each of  independent evaluation of   basis that maximizes involvement
the three parks.             concession in Y6.            of communities and benefits the
communities and the parks.
2.6. Socio cultural and ecological Sociocultural and ecologic study
information required to modify  report; minutes of meeting with
the limits of the Jbil National  stakeholders; "enquete
park are available in Y3.    commodo-incomnmodo".
2.7. The water management    Datasheet; Annual reports of lake
program leads to expected results monitoring, minutes of meetings
on the physico-chemical      with dam authority.
parameters of the waters of Lake
Ichkeul.
2.8. The IUCN scorecard notation Expert report from scoring in Yl,
indicates that all three parks have 3 and 6.
improved management - by 5% in
Y3 and 10% in Y6.
3. Public Awareness:         3.1. In each of the three parks  Terms of Reference and job  In spite of important needs for
Attitudes and behavioral pattems administration has created  descrption; Annual report of P  ark resources, peripheral
of the administration, local  positions of permanent deputies  and Conservators; Supervision.  populations react positively to the
authorities as well as their private onservators in charge of relations                conservation awareness messages.
and community partners       and communication with
demonstrate a comrmitment    communities and the private
towards protecting the countts  operators.
natural heritage in the three parks.
3.2. % of activities of the Annual Annual reports of CD as annexed Constraints induced by better mgt
Work Programs that is entrusted to to the Conservators' Annual  and surveillance of the parks,
communities:                 Reports.                     which cannot be solved by the
Y3   Y6                                  roject, are addressed by other
-Ichkeul        10   15      Opinion survey of targeted   development programs;
-Bou-Hedma      10   15       pulation.
-Jbil            5   10
- 33-



3.3. % of the population of parks Summary of scores achieved each Teachers may be reluctant to add
and surrounding who is sensitive yea.                     to their pedagogic
to the flagship themes of the three                      responsibilities;
Jbil Gazelle blanche  25
Bou-L Acacia radiana  25
Ichkeul Water release  25
3A. % of pupils of targeted
classes in primary school of the
tr   parks having achieved a 700
score to a test on the park and its
value:
Y1 Y2 Y3 Y4 Y5 Y6
40 50 60 65 70 70
-34 -



.Key*pbrfofmance          k)*wo,=
HierarChy of ObJectIivs             Indicators         -                                                , ., . . __  r_____
Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                Outputs)
1. Capacity building and     U.S $ 2.02 million          5-year budget plan updated on a  The DGF financial _mgement
institutional strengthening  (GEF: $1.55 million)         yearly basis; Annual Work    and procurement capacity is
1.1 Organizational                                       Program of the PMU; Financial  sufficiently conpetent to enable
development                                               reports; Audit report       timely availbility of project
1.2 Interpretive and education                                                        servces, goods or work and
capacity                                                                               monitoring of expenditur
1.3 Training                                             Annual report of the PMU;    Staff appointed to the UCP and
1.4 Research and monitoring                              TORs; Contract monitoring,    SSEPN posses sufficient time
programs                                                  Monitoring of conventions and  and expertdse to fulfill the
1.5 Institutional strengthening                          MoU; Training modules, scornng  mission that is demanded of
equipment                                                 and reports; publications;  them.
1.6 Policy studies                                       monitornng manuals.
1.7 Project Coordination Unit
2. National parks:           U.S $ 7.18 million           Annual reports of the        The proposed redeployment of
management of the three      (GEF: $3.25 million)         Conservator, Management Plans; personnel to meet project needs
parks                                                     Field visit (supervision); Contract is effected.
2.1 Park management                                       monitoring, Minutes of important
planning                                                  meetings; Minutes of work    Staff appointed to the parks
2.2 Equipment and small civil                            reception.                    possess sufficient time and
works Equipment and smaH civfexpertise to fulfill the mission
works                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~that is mresteed from them.
2.3 Ecological, socioeconomic
surveys                                                                                The park administration and its
partners succeed in stopping
poaching by people originating
outside the lbil region.
Sociocultural and tenure
constraints are not obstacles to
the modification of the lbil Park
boundaries.
3. Public awareness and      U.S $ 0.68 million           Annual reports of the PMU;   Annual Govemment budget
education                    (GEF: 0.53 million)          Supeavision; Contract        enable the proposed recruitment
3.1 Development of                                        monitoring; Education material  or affectation.
educational packages                                     (posters, etc.) Minutes of work
3.2 Development of media                                  achievement (e.g. eco museum in Staff appointed to the UCP
programs promoting                                        Douz).                       possess sufficient time and
p.ograms promoting                                                                    expertise to fulfill the mission
biodiversity conservation                                                              that is demanded of them.
3.3 Outreach and education
programs for local                                                                     Schoolteachers agree to the
communities                                                                            additional workload required to
implement the conservation
awareness progranm in primary
schools.
-35 -



Monitoring and Evaluation Plan:
Monitoring of the project will be divided into two: (a) scientific monitoring and evaluation, based on the
agreed-on biological indicators and the analysis of the effects of management measures used by the project on
the biodiversity; and (b) monitoring of project physical and financial implementation taking into account
project progress.
M&E will be carried out by the PMU with technical backstopping provided by the deputy coordinator from
MEAT. In line with guidance received from the STAP reviewer, a specific and simple monitoring mechanism
would be prepared in order to allow the personnel to know when and what to measure, to take maximum
advantage of patrols, and to guarantee a systematic data collection. The design will include the selection of
indicators to evaluate communities, animal and plant populations and other processes identified as priority
within the national parks. The design would consider the evaluation of monitoring activities and the suitability
of indicators, in order to make improvements in the mechanism. Guidelines suggested by the STAP review will
be followed.
At the local level, because of the diverse nature of the stakeholders, clauses will be introduced in the
contracts/conventions with the local Development Committees (CDs). The CDs will be responsible for updating
the PMTs on the progress of their community development plans in order to receive necessary funds. The
community development facilitators (animateurs) will assist in the collection and validation of the data. The
CRDAs will furnish quarterly progress reports to the PMU which will then consolidate the individual reports.
The reports will be prepared every six months and would include the physical and financial progress. The
outcome and impact indicators will furnished on an annual basis. The project will have an in-depth mid-term
review. The review would assess progress and redesign project elements as necessary.
- 36 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.02 million
Instituffonal strengthening:
The objective of this component will be to reinforce the institutional capacity of the Directorate General of
Forestry (Ministry of Agriculture), the CRDAs, the Ministry of Enviromnent and Landuse Planning
(MELP) and their regional directorate, and other partners in sustainable protected areas management This
component will support the following: (i) support for the Project Management Unit; (ii) training; (iii)
research studies; and (iv) establishment of a scientific monitoring and evaluation (M&E) information
system for the national parks.
(i) Project management: The project will support the strengthening of the Project Management Unit in the
DGF through technical assistance for assuring the monitoring and supervision of the project. This will
include recruitment of specialized M&E consultants, and eq!upment and software necessary for financial
management This sub-component would also include support for the mid-term review in the third year of
project implementation.
(ii) lai gggL.The traing programs would focus on the personnel responsible for the day-to-day
management of the park as well as staff in the relevant Ministries and their partners who are involved in the
administron of the parks. This sub-component would be critical in assuring the smooth implementation
of the project since the current staff do not possess the necessary capacities in order to carry out all the
functions pertaining to protected areas management. Specifically, the emphasis on the participatory
approach in this project demands relatively new skills of the DGF personnel who have been used to a more
classic "command and control" approach. The program also envisages the training of people outside the
admunistration who are, nevertheless, closely involved in the management of protected areas in the country
such as local associations, tourism operators etc. It is estimated that around 100 persons will be trained in
this regard. The program would also support the recruitment of a specialized training consultant who will
provide the necessary trainers (national and international) to carry out the proposed program. The program
will include the following: (a) on-the-job training This would include 5 modules, each module organized
around several thematic sessions including management of a GEF/World Bank project; conservation
management; environmental education; improving public awareness of the importance of the
environment/biodiversity centered around the flagship species/themes identified in each park (Gazelle
blanche for Jbil; Acacia radiana for Bouhedma, and the theme of water resources management in Ichkeul);
(b) training of trainers: It is proposed to create a "pole" of 5 students specializing in conservation
management who would benefit from more detailed instruction through 13 weeks of in-depth training
abroad and in Tunisia. This will be done through a contract with an appropriate training institution; (c)
Diploma training- Currently, Tunisia lacks specialists trained in the scientific domains related to
biodiversity conservation and management The project would support scholarships for graduate students
desiring to specialize in disciplines pertaining to ecology and biodiversity conservation. Four scholarships
are envisaged: Mediternanean ecology, flora and fauna of ecosystems, Tunisian biodiversity, and
socio-economic community development
(iii) Research Studies: The project will support four baseline studies common to all three parks pertaining
to: (i) monitoring the dynamics of vegetation in the parks and the establishment of phytoecological maps;
(ii) preparation of an inventory and monitoring of reptile populations; (iii) Inventory and monitoring of bird
populations; and (iv) inventory and monitoring of the mammal populations. In addition, this sub-component
will support specific research studies in each park. For Ichkeul, the project will support the research into
-37 -



the mathematical modelling governing the water resources management aspects of the lake. The long-term
viability of the lake depends entirely on the execution of a well-conceived, scientifically justified plan for
the releases of water into the lake that takes into account existing (old and new) dams upstream of the lake.
The mathematical model developed in 1995 by BCEOM needs to be updated and improved to take into
account current physical realities and needs to be calibrated (with experimental releases of water) to be able
to serve as a genuine management tool. The project would support this research modeling exercise so that
the park management would thus have a convincing protocol (based on solid scientific data that have been
tested) to present to the authorities managing the dams upstream (DGBGTH) in the Ministry of Agriculture
who can then integrate the ecological needs of the lake in the overall plan for water resources management
in northem Tunisia (Plan Directeur de l'Eau du Nord). The project would also support the research
activities on the biological and physical parameters of the lake to strengthen the capacity of the National
Environmental Protection Agency (ANPE) to carry out its scientific monitoring and surveillance activities.
For Bouhedma, the project envisages two research studies - the first on the ecology and dynamics of the
acacia radiana and the second on the ecology of the parasitic insects that prey on the acacia. In Jbil, the
research studies will focus on the biology and ecology of the sand gazelle, and the ecology and behavior of
the houbara bustard.
(iv) M&E Information System: The project will support the establishment of a system of M&E of National
Parks (Systeme de Suivi Evaluation des Parcs Nationaux - SSEPN). This will be lodged in the department
of national parks in the Director General of Forestry (DGF). The SSEPN will build on the existing results
and data from the database for forestry planning (Systeme dInfornation pour la Planification Forestiere -
SIPF) which is currently in operation in the DGF. A team of three technicians will be assigned to the
SSEPN and will be trained to serve the project's M&E needs, benefitting from the experience of the
existing SIPF team and some of its equipment A node will also be established in each park and in the
Ministry of Environment. The training of the technicians and the park conservators will focus on using the
SSEPN as a management tool. The basic spatial data are already available for Bouhedma and Jbil at the
Directorate General of Land Use Planming (DGLP) prepared by the National Center of Tele-detection and
the data from the project SAIDE using the "Corinne" nomenclature. Ichkeul will benefit from the
acquisition of orthophotos (1/25,000) under the SIPF. Additional data will be obtained as required during
project implementation. A specialized consulting firm will be recruited for the design and implementation of
the system as well as the training of the ultimate users. The SSEPN will utilize the Corinne nomenclature
(project SAIDE) which is in the process of being adopted at the national level in the framework of the
GEONAT project (updating of the national maps project).
Project Component 2 - US$7.18 million
Protected Areas Management:
The objective of this component would be: (i) manage and restore the ecosystems in the three national parks
to protect the globally important flora and fauna; (ii) assist in the development of ecotourism activities; and
(iii) establish, with the local populations, community development plans compatible with the objectives of
sustainable biodiversity conservation. The tree parks (out of 8) chosen include Ichkeul, Bouhedma, and
lbil. These three parks cover unique and distinctly different ecosystems - wetland, arid-mountain/pseudo
savanna, and desert respectively. Overall, there exists no management plan for any of the three parks. The
management is ad hoc and does not systematically take into account the needs and input of the local
communities who live in and around the parks. In all the three parks, the key professional manager is the
park conservator with the majority of the remaining personnel being workers and/or temporary labor. The
project envisages strengthening the technical and management capacity in the parks with a view to efficient
implementation of the eventual management plans. For the park of Ichkeul, the management plan would be
based on the extensive work already carried out under a KfW financed study (1993-95) which came up
with several recommendations for the management of the park, especially the water resources management
-38 -



aspects. The components under the community development for each of the parks are detailed in the social
assessment are presented in Annex 12.
Ichkeul NJP: The Ichkeul N.P is divided into three physiographic units - the lake (89 sq. km), the
wetlands/marshes (30 sq. kIn), and the mountain (14 sq. kIn). The existing zonation comprises two foci
reflecting the different natural milieux - the mountain and the wetlands forming one zone and the lake the
other. The management objective in the first zone is the conservation of natural resources. In the second
zone, the objective is the sustainable management of the lake especially the fisheries resources. Currently,
the fishery is the lake is under the exclusive operation of a private firm under a 30-year concession. The
zonation proposed has been adopted from the recommendations of the KfW-financed study.
Currently, the park is under the responsability of a park conservator at the engineer-level who is under the
supervision of the head of the Forestry Section of the CRDA (Chef d'Arrondissement Forestier). The
conservator is assisted by seven workers (ouvriers) who have a very basic level of education. The park also
has a cellule managed by the ANPE which is located in the welcome center. The ANPE team is
multidisciplinary comprising three professional staff and one technician. This team will be reinforced by a
two engineers (one from ANPE and one from DGBGTH) who will be responsible for the calibrating and
updating of the mathematical model that was financed under the KfW study in 1993-95. The rest of the
team is concerned with the monitoring of the quality of the lake. The current management of the park is ad
hoc and draws on some recommendations of the Kfw-financed study but are restricted to purely technical
aspects. There is no significant, coherent management plan that takes integrates the socio-economic
development of the local communities in the management of the park. The park has a manned entry gate, a
welcome center, and an ecomuseum. The park also has running water and electricity in the administrative
buildings. There is a paved road that leads to the ecomuseum but visitors are not permitted to use this. The
Tinja sluice regulates the flow of water between the lake Ichkeul and lake Bizerte and controls the salinity.
Mechanization of this sluice is envisaged under the project There are two 4X4 vehicles one of which is
equipped with a radio unit. The workers also have 4 motorcycles and 7 horses. The park however does not
have a telephone, the material in the ecomuseum is outdated, and the laboratory is under-equipped.
Ichkeul is Tunisia's best-known national park and has about 50,000 visitors per year, mainly due to its
proximity to the capital, Tunis. However, the socioeconomic development upstream has posed a serious
threat to the health of the Lake Ichkeul ecosystem. As a result, the park was included in the Ramsar's
Convention Montreux Record ("Record of Ramsar sites where changes in ecological character have
occurred, are occurring, or are likely to occur") thus indicating the great threat to which the wetland is
exposed The project would support the updating and calibration of the Kfw-financed mathematical model
for the management of the lake using test releases of freshwater in order to establish a scientific basis and
calendar for the releases of freshwater necessary for maintaining the health of the lake's ecosystem. This
component would support the park management with the necessary infrastructural improvements
(buildings, improvements in trails/routes in the park), equipment, vehicles, and the development of a
participatory approach to include the local populations in the management plan of the park. A local PMT
which would include the local authorities, the park administration and representatives of the communities
would be established. The project also envisages the recruitment of an "animateur" to facilitate and
strengthen all community development activities. Under the management and restoration of ecosystems.
four programs will be financed: the first involves technical assistance for the direct management of the park
including the training and equipment of 10 eco-guards, elaboration of a program of internal planning and
regulation, with zoning and sector aspects. The latter would be carried out in the field with the participation
of the population living in and around the park. A preliminary public awareness campaign is envisaged in
order to sensitize the local populations. The process of formalization of the development committee into a
legally recognized AFIC has already started with the majority of the residents of the park already being
members. It is expected that it will be legalized by early 2002 (Details in Annex 12). The second program
-39 -



pertains to the rehabilitation of the lake's ecosystem. This would include establishment of a permanent
monitoring system to monitor the additional flows of fresh water into the lake; mechanization of the
existing sluice which governs the flow of water between the lakes of Ichkeul and Bizerte; maps and
bathymetric control, dredging; and an observatory for monitoring fish production. The third program would
address the rehabilitation of the marshes, and the fourth program would address the vegetation of the
mountain (jebel) ecosystem. Based on the KfW study, the following activities under the rehabilitation of the
marshes over the course of the project implementation period. closures around the areas of Ghezala and El
Melah and a review of the closure option for Joumine; completion of the "tabia" on the Joumine; evaluate
the potential surface and groundwater resources that can be mobilized for the inundation of the wetlands
and establishment of a hydraulic management plan specifically for the wetlands; decontamination of the
effluents of the wastewater which get dumped into the watershed of the lake; substitution of the practice of
"elevage sauvage" by providing alternative sources of revenue for the park habitants; and carrying out
scientific monitoring of the reconstitution of the habitats and the resulting changes in frequentation by the
bird populations.
Bouhedma N.P: This park covers the govemorates of Sidi Bouzid (11,000 ha) and Gafsa (5500 ha). The
northern boundary of the park is the mountain (jebel) of Bouhedma and there are several zones: 3 core
protected areas, 3 buffer zones, and 2 zones of "temporary occupation". Officially, there are about 2500
habitants in the park who live in the latter two zones. Insofar as the existing human resource capacity is
concerned, the only professional staff is the conservator, the majority of the other personnel (between
60-120 people) being daily labor recruited from the park population or the area surrounding the park.
Current infrastructure in the park (Bordj Bouhedma) includes a depot, an administrative office, lodging for
the conservator, the ecomuseum, and basic accommodation for about 12 persons. The Bordj is not
equipped with communication facilities or electricity but has running water. Several enclosures have been
constructed between 1984-90 to house the animals introduced in this habitat There is one 4x4 and three
(ancient) tractors as well as four motorcycles. A project in the 1980s with GTZ assistance resulted in a
plan in 1986 which however, is far from a management plan per se. The focus of the plan is essentially on
soil and water conservation measures, and does not take into account the complete boundaries of the park,
the conservation objectives in the short, medium, and long-term, a coherent strategy for the utilization of
the park spaces, the expected outcomes and the identification of suitable monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms and indicators.
As in Ichkeul, this component would support necessary infirasructural improvements (buildings,
improvements in trails/routes in the park), equipment, vehicles, and the development of a participatory
approach to include the local populations in the management plan of the park. The project would also
finance the construction of lodgings for the park agents, an entry post with a deep well; improvement in the
capacities of the CRDA (Sidi Bouzid) that would house the local GIS. As with Ichkeul, a local PMT which
would include the local authorities, the park administration and representatives of the communities would
be established. Under the management and restoration of ecosystems four programs will be financed the
first will include support for the direct management of the park including the financing of a motorized corps
of ecoguards (6), and elaboration of a program of internal planning and regulation, with zoning and
sectoral aspects. The second program would address the rehabilitation of the Acacia raddiana
pseudo-savanah. The third would focus on the improvement of the protection of the wild animals in the
park and lastly, this component would support the potential for reintroduction of large animals in close
collaboration with the proposed French GEF regional project on the reintroduction of the sahelo-saharien
antelopes in accordance with the Convention on Migratory Species (CMS/Bonn Convention). The project
would also support the transfer of addax to a more suitable park (like Jbil) and the sale of the ostriches
which are not currently in their natural milieu.
-40-



Jbil N.P: This is the largest and most recent of the three national parks. Very little has been done to
actually "manage" the park thus far. There is one conservator who is based in the CRDA of Kebili but who
does not have regular access to means of transport that would enable him to carry out his functions, in
however limited a manner. There are also five guards who are also limited in their capacity to carry out any
control due to lack of communication facilities with the exterior. Unlike the other two parks, there is no
ecomuseum or welcome center in this park. The sole infrastrcture that exists is an entry gate at one of the
boundaries of the park In order to accomodate the transhumance and right of passage for the nomad
population, the project envisages the eventual revision of the existing boundaries of the park.
This component would support the CRDA of Kebili with necessary infrastructure, vehicles, and equipment
for managing the work at the field level, and the development of a participatory approach to include the
local populations that are customary users of the park space, and other stakeholders in the management
plan of the park. For improved logistics, a base would be established at the port of entry in the north of the
park with the necessary lodgings, offices, deep wells, and fuelling station. As with the other two parks, a
local PMT which would include the local authorities, the park administration and representatives of the
communities would be established. In addition to the programs for the direct support for the management of
the park per se, this component would also include a program for the protection of the Gazella leptocero
and Gazella dorcas, protection of the vegetative cover of the Grand Erg, and the reintroduction of large
animals in close collaboration with the proposed FFEM regional project on the reintroduction of the
sahelian antelopes. The project also envisages the revision of the boundaries of the park with a view to
extending its limits. The project will work in close coordination with other relevant development activities
planned for the region. The Action Plan for the park has identified illegal hunting (by the habitants of the
nearby towns like Douz as well as foreigners) as one of the root causes for the loss of animal biodiversity in
the park- Thanks to the recent political commitment at the highest levels, measures will be taken by the
CRDA and the DGF to enforce the ban on illegal hunting. With a view to improve public awareness and
change behavioral patterns among the local communities, the project would also support the construction of
an eco-museum at Douz that will focus on the intertwined concepts of the local culture and the desert as a
unique environment
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.68 mililon
Public Awareness:
This component would aim to build public support for biodiversity conservation at the local/park level and
governorate level. Action plans will target priority groups including local communities, local/regional
governments, site visitors, and local school children to raise the awareness of specific stakeholder groups
about the importance of, and opportunities for, biodiversity conservation within the three parks. Possible
delivery mechanisms include mass media, formal and informal education, and development of linkages with
local NGOs, schools, tourism agencies, and other organizations to promote public understanding about
biodiversity resources. For each of the parks, flagship species/themes (espece phare) have been identified
that will form the nucleus of all public awareness campaigns as well as research, monitoring and
conservation activities. These would be the Accacia raddiana, and the white gazelle (Gazelle leptoceros)
for the parks of Bouhedma and Jbil respectively and the theme of water resources management for the case
of Ichkeul. Activities will be developed at the local/community level around these key species/themes in
order to develop the grassroots awareness necessary to sustain long-term biodiversity conservation.
Activities will be developed at the local/community level in order to develop the grassroots awareness
necessary to sustain long-term biodiversity conservation.
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Projeot 'Q(tBy Coi1p.oiet          .E l                $hiIiBb  UQS'$llion
Institutional Strengthening                              1.24        0.57         1.81
Protected Areas Mnagement                               5.59         0.80         6.39
Public awareness and education                          0.37         0.23         0.60
Total Baseline Cost                                      7.20        1.60         8.80
Physical Contingencies                                 0.35         0.07         0.42
Price ContingencIes                                     0.59        0.07         0.66
Total Project Costs1             8.14         1.74         9.88
Total Financing Required              8.14         1.74        9.88
ProJect,Cos4By Category     u I             I) 'J1£j l     ol. 2 ust$,m4ikw)
Goods                                                     0.86          0.59         1.45
Works                                                     1.95          0.00         1.95
Servlces                                                  1.31          0.75         2.06
Training                                                  0.46          0.26         0.72
Community works                                           0.80          0.00         0.80
Incremental operating costs                               1.82          0.00         1.82
Contingencies                                             0.94          0.14         1.08
Total Project Costs1     8.14          1.74        9.88
Total Financing Required      8.14         1.74         9.88
Identfiable taxea and dutie are 0 (USSrm) and e total projed coa n of taxes, Is 9.88 (USSm). Thebacf the project cost sharing ratio is 53.96% of total
prject coost net of te
-42 -



Annex 4 Incremental Costs and Global Environment Benefits
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Overview
1.     The objective of the GEF Altemative is to strengthen the national system of protected areas in
Tunisia and promote sustainable conservation management, with increased participation of local
populations, within the ecosystems of the project-supported areas. The project supports, thmugh relevant
project outputs, Articles 6, 8, 11, and 13 of the Convention on Biological Diversity, ratified by Tunisia on
May 3, 1995. Article 6: General Measures for Conservation and Sustainable Use; Article 8: In-situ Conservation; Article 11:
Incentive Measures; Article 13: Public Education and Awareness. Specific project components include: (a) capacity
building and institutional strengthening; (b) development of management plans in three national parks; and
(c) public awareness and education. The GEF Altemative intends to achieve these outputs at a total
incremental cost of US$ 5.49 miUion. The proposed project should be viewed as complementary to
existing activities in Tunisia.
Baseline Scenario
2.     Tunisia accords a high significance to biodiversity conservation and sustainable uses in its
development effort There is a strong political commitment towards enhanced conservation efforts and its
successful integration into a wider economic, social and cultural context The National Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan were developed in a very participatory manner under a Biodiversity Enabling
Activity (GEF-funded, the World Bank being the Implementing Agency) and were adopted by the
Government in 1998. However, thus far, the recommendations and priorities outlined in the Action Plan
have not yet been concretized. Management plans for the national parks are either non-existent, minimal,
or ad hoc. The management activities that do exist in some parks tend to be top-down, with the exception
of the plans recently developed for the parks of Chaambi and Feidja. The Government is also in the process
of diversifying its tourism strategy to include nature and cultural tourism. In this regard, two of the three
national parks in this project (Ichkeul and Bouhedma) wil benefit from improvements in nfisucure
around and within the parks, equipment for the ecomuseums, training etc. The hunman resource capacity to
manage the parks will continue to remain linited. Protected area management initiatives will continue to be
ad hoc and sporadic, lacking an overaU coherent strategy and vision. The recommendations of the recent
Presidential Commission on National Parks Management represent a significant advance, but in the
absence of their operationalization, wil remain in the realm of theory. The regional French GEF project on
the reintroduction of the Sahelian antelopes will target the parks of Bouhedma and Jbil, but will be
restricted to the specific technical activities related to the reintroduction of the species. In the absence of
the GEF funding, it is unlikely that the protection of biodiversity of global importance can be achieved.
The estimated costs of the baseline are: (i) GOT funding of salaries and routine management activities
($2.lm) in the three parks; (ii) UNDP funding of public awareness and institutional strengthening in
relation to the Feidja National Park project ($280,000); (iii) the regional project (French GEF/GOT) on
reintroduction of sahelian antelopes in Bou Hedma and Jbil National Parks ($148,000); (iv) GOT's
development of tourism-related activities in 2 of the 3 national parks ($2.1 million), Bouhedma and
Ichkeul; and (v) limited number of training, capacity building, and environmental education activities
($43,100). The total estimated baseline is $4,671,100.
3.     Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in limited protection of biodiversity, increased
domestic environmental benefits related to forest and natural resource management as well as soil
conservation, increased participation in conservation, and some improvement in protecting coastal areas in
-43 -



Tunisia's protected areas. Development of ecotourism will result in improved infrastructure facilities but in
the absence of clear management plans, there is also the risk of increased destruction of existing
biodiversity. Progress will be made in achieving broader development goals related to strengthening
environmental management and improved social and rural development As a consequence of the current
course of action, Tunisia's protected areas will likely continue to be managed in an ad hoc manner, without
the participation of the local populations in a systematic and meaningful manner. Poorly-managed
recreational uses may degrade the biodiversity in the national parks and reserves. The long-term
implications of these activities includes the steady loss of globally significant biodiversity over the next two
decades.
GEF Alternative
4.     The GEF Alternative would build on the Baseline Scenario by protecting three representative
major ecosystems; conserving threatened remnant ecosystems and species; providing opportunities for local
populations in and around protected areas; increasing public awareness about biodiversity conservation;
and supporting participatory approaches to sustainable natural resource conservation. Implementation of
the GEF Alternative would make possible activities and programs that would not have been possible under
the Baseline Scenario. For instance, the proposed project will fill one of the key gaps in protected areas
management in Tunisia through the introduction of management plans that are technically sound and have
the buy-in of local populations. Scientific research activities promoting biodiversity conservation through
monitoring and evaluating the status and distribution of species and of ecosystems will be supported under
the GEF Alternative. While both the Baseline Scenario and the GEF Alternative support biodiversity
conservation in Tunisia's national parks, with both domestic and international benefits, only the latter
option would ensure long-term conservation and sustainable utilization through strengthened on-site
management, outrewh to and involvement of local communities and local govemments, and development
of viable approaches to sustainable natural resource use in national and natural parks. One of the three
project sites, Ichkeul National Park was, in 1990 included in the Ramnsar's Convention Montreux Record
("Record of Ramsar sites where changes in ecological character have occurred, are occurring, or are likely
to occur") thus indicating the great threat to which the wetland is exposed. The GEF alternative would
support the updating and calibration of the mathematical model for the management of the lake (financed
by KfW, 1993-95) using test releases of freshwater in order to establish a scientific basis and calendar for
the releases of freshwater necessary for maintaining the health of the lake's ecosystem. With management
and conservation measures based on a long-term plan, greater public commitment to conserving the areas
and the creation of institutional and participatory mechanisms supported under the project, the GEF
Alternative would produce the institutional, social, and economic framework required to restore and
conserve over the long-run, the biodiversity in the three pilot areas, thereby generating significant
biodiversity benefits within these three globally significant ecosystems.
- 44 -



5. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$ 9.88 million, as presented in the summary
table. The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$ 4.67 million) and the cost of the GEF
Alternative (US$ 9.88 million) is estimated at US$ 5.49 million of which the GEF contribution is US$5.33
million.
Table 1:NCREMENTAL COST SUMTMARY (2002-2008) N $US
Component          Baseline Alternativ            Incremental Cost
e         GEF     Other Sources   Total
1. Institutional    616,900   2,021,000  1,540,000                1,540,000
strengthening
2. Protected      3,768,400   7,179,500  3,250,000   155,200      3,405,200
Areas Management
3. Public           285,800     677,500  540,000                    540,000
awareness
Total              4,671,100  9,878,000   5,330,000  155,200      5,485,200
-45-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
In US$'000
|Year I  I Year 2    Year 3    Year 4  1 Year 5    Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing
Required
ProJect Costs
Investment Costs       1163.9    3202.2    1427.6     792.7     720.5    461.4      0.0
Recurrent Costs         231.6     270.4     352.2     381.9     430.3     443.3
Total Project Costs      1395.5    3472.6    1779.8    1174.6    1150.8    904.7      0.0
.Total Financing         1395.5    3472.6    1779.8    1174.6    1150.8     904.7      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Govemment              925.5     1946.1    165.4     308.4     583.4    480.7       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-flnanclersGEF       452.3     1470.0    1547.9    820.6     512.2    526.6
User Fees/Beneflciarles    0.0       20.5      41.6      32.7     23.6      36.8
Other                      17.8      36.0      24.9      12.9     31.5      25.3      0.0
Total Project Financing  1395.6   3472.6    1779.8    1174.6    1150.7   1069.4       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 46 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurenent responsibilities: To ensure smooth implemnentation, the Project Management Unit (PMU) at
the DGF in the Ministry of Agriculture will have overall responsibilities for coordination of procurement
activities under the project. The PMU has acquired experience in dealing with Bank-financed procurement
under the previous Forestry projects but this capacity will be reinforced under this project. The National
Project Coordinator will coordinate procurement activities through the PMTs and the Regional
Comninssariats for Agricultural Development (CRDAs) who will be responsible for launching their own
bids and supervising their projects. The DGF and the Ministry of Environment and Landuse Planning will
be responsible for preparing the bidding documents at the national level.
Overall, the Bank is satisfied that the local procurement procedures are acceptable. Although the Tunisian
legislation is in line with Bank Guidelines, certain rules and procedures however, are not acceptable to the
Bank. These issues mainly concem the use of two envelopes in bidding for works and goods, and open
competitive bidding for huing consultants. Under tis project, the Bank's procurement procedures will take
precedence and this will be specified in the grant agreement The Bank carried out an assessment of the
procurement capacity of the implementing agency and has judged that the overall risk is low.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of goods and works will be done in accordance with the World Bank's guidelines:
Procurement under EBRD Loans and IDA Credits, issued in January 1995 and revised in September 1997
and January 1999. Consulting services, technical assistance and tuining financed under the grant will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, issues in January 1997 and revised in January 1999. The draft procurement plan for the first
year is attached as an Excel file below:
-47 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
'Procuremerit. MOtUd
Expenditu'rie Category         ICB             NCB          O"Or         411.F.   '    oit'
1. Works                           0.00            1.40'         0.00         0.79       2.19
(0.00)          (0.76)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.76)
2. Goods                           0.32            1.15          0.09         0.00        1.56
(0.22)          (0.87)       (0.07)       (0.00)      (1.16)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00          2.29         0.00       2.29
Consultants                       (0.00)          (0.00)        (2.05)       (0.00)      (2.05)
4. Training                        0.00.           0.00          0.00         0.81       0.81
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.74)      (0.74)
5. Community works                 0.00            0.00          0.92         0.00       0.92
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.62)       (0.00)      (0.62)
6. Recurrent costs                 0.00            0.00          0.00         2.11        2.11
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                            0.32           2.55          3.30         3.71        9.88
(0.22)          (1.63)       (2.74)        (0.74)     (5.33)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
3/ Direct contracting for community works only.
-48 -



-Tableau procurement lere annee.xis
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Servlces                            .6
E*peiidftureCateUaW  , QCBS ; 0      SF5   ____ .
A. FIrms              0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)
B. Individuals        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00
I (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selecton Based on Consultants' Qualificatons
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures In parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
-49 -



Prilor revlew thresholds (Table B)
Works contracts equal or above a threshold of $500,000 equivalent, contracts for goods equal to or
US$400,000, and consultant contracts equal to or above the equivalent of US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to the Banles prior review. However, no civil works above the
$500,000 tbreshold are expected to be financed under the project. The review process would cover about
20 percent of the total contract amounts. This percentage is low essentially due to the small number of
small civil works contracts, and is deemed acceptable given the satisfactoxy procurement of the same
implementing agencies under other Bank projects and the acceptability to the Bank of National competitive
Bidding procedures. For other procurement, the Borrower shall furnish all information and documentation
that the Bank may reasonably request, prior to the submission of the related withdrawal application.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
ContradtVaiue :,
Threshold            .           , .
;   openditum,CCategory   (US$thousands)    i "    iM*to.,       .,        (O*#      i.1  . 
1. Works                      >-30,000                  NCB                      n.a
<30,000              Local Shopping                n.a
2. Goods                        >-400                   ICB                  All contracts
<400 and >=30,000             NCB                 No prior review
<30,000              Local Shopping                n.a
3. ServicesFimis               >=100                    QCBS                 All contracts
<100                    QCBS               None (post-review)
Individuals                     >50              Consultant Guidelines  TORs, SL, TORs contract
<50              Consultant Guidelines       TORs only
4. Miscellaneous       _
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $2.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supavision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-50-



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of Grant proceeds by disbursement category and percentages financed by the Grant are
presented in Table C below:
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amou-nt.lnIvsS$htllI^.v}    f h8s
1. Works                                   1.38                         600%
2. Goods                                   1.16           1000/% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory), and 80%
of local expenditures for items prcued
locally
3. Consultant services and ttuining        2.79
Local                                                              960%
International                                                       88%
Total Project Costs                        5.33
Total                                      5.33
-51 -



Flnanclal Management
General Framework The Financial Management System (FMS) in place at the MOA, implementing
agency for the project, is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to
the pubic sector and more specifically to governmental institutions. The main characteristics of this system
are the following:
Accounting svste'  An accounting system based on the cash basis and the outline of budget components is
operational and reflected on legal books according to the regulation described in the Code of Public
Accounting. The public accounting system is computerized The application called ADAB allows to reflect
the initial budget allocation by line Ministry and budget components as well as amounts committed and
disbursed as the implementation is going forward during the fiscal year.
Budgeting system. Based on the programs and actions to be undertaken, the MOA issues an annual budget
for commitments. The annual budget is submitted for approval to the Ministry of Finance (MF), structure
in charge of a close control through its specialized units. In terms of sources of funds, the general budget
includes the GOT's contribution as well as funds allocated by different donors for the implementation of
specific projects. The accounting system ADAB is used by all the technical Ministries at the central level to
commit expenditures and to ensure that all the expenditures are done according to the agreed allocations as
reflected in the annual "loi de finances".
National Disbursements Procedures. These are the following:
At the central level. The budget execution is subject to authorization for payment on a transaction level.
This specific authorization process aims at ensuring that the expense to be paid has been budgeted, and to
issue the official instruction to release the funds by the 'Tr6sorerie Generale".
At the regional level. The payments are still made through the governmental budget however the procedures
of payments are decentralized 'and executed by the regional entities. Based on the authorization of
paymnents, the Tr6sorerie G6n&rale (TG) transfers the needed funds to the regional entities on a quarterly
basis. The funds are released subject to the presentation of detailed reports on the use of funds and
forecasts.
Project financed by International donors. With regards to projects that are financed through the Ministry of
International Cooperation, payments for foreign exchange are for the most part, centralized for the eligible
portion. The mechanism in place involves four parties with the following specific roles: (i) the regional
entities, such as CRDA are responsible for implementation and issuing of the applications for withdrawal,
(ii) technical departments such as DGF, at the central level are responsible for reviewing the technical
aspects, compliance with law and procedures, and consistency of the supporting documentation, (iii) the
project coordinator, through the designated financial unit, is responsible for the review of the eligibility of
the expenditures and submission of request to the Bank (e.g. direct payments) or to the Central Bank of
Tunisia (e.g. SOEs), for the release of the funds; and (iv) the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) which plays
the role of manager of the special account, is acting as MOF representative, and play an important role of
control of eligibility and compliance with legal and project documents. BCT is responsible for the
replenishment of the Special account.
Control of the budget expenditures. A fiduciary responsibility of control of public expenditures is assigned
to MOF through a specialized audit department "Contr6le General des Finances" (CGF) and to the Audit
Court (Cour des Comptes) that has a judiciary role of supervision of public finance and the authority to
-52 -



deliver final approval ("quitus") of the management and accounts of public funds. For managing the
external debt, MOF has implemented in 1996 a new computerized system called "SIADE".
Project Monitoring. The DGF acquired through implementation of several projects including those financed
by the Bank (e.g. Forestry Development Project and Second Forestry Development Project) an experience
in accounting and financial monitoring. A specialized unit is responsible for issuing periodical reports
combining physical implementation data as well as financial information related to commitments, payments
from the budget and disbursement from loans. This unit is playing a role of aggregation of data, for
transactions executed by the CRDAs and has the responsibility of preparation of the disbursement'
documents as well as issuing of project financial statements.
Specific arrangements for the projects.
Based on the institutional arrangements agreed for the project implementation, two groups of entities are
involved. The first is consisted of regional entities (CRDA, and Regional Directorates of Environment).
The second is the technical departments of both MOA and MELP. The MOA through the DGF, would be
the general coordinator of the project and where the PMU will be located and headed by a National Project
Coordinator. The PMU will be responsible for a close monitoring of the project and evaluation of physical
performance, including procurement, finance, budgeting, and accounting duties. The PMU is responsible
for the establishment and maintenance of an acceptable financial management system. The DGF has gained
considerable experience in financial management though the implementation of previous Bank-financed
projects and hence is expected to demonstrate a reasonable knowledge and understanding of World Bank
procurement, disbursement, project accounting, and financial reporting. DGF should play a role of official
vis a vis for the project implementation and thus is responsible of producing consolidated financial data and
progress reports.
Staffing and duties at the central level. The Project Management Unit (PMU), is consisting of: (i) the
National Project Coordinator from DGF; (ii) the Deputy Coordinator nominated from MELP; (iii) a
financial and accounting specialist; and (iv) a procurement specialist The project team at the central level
will coordinate all the project activities to be implemented at the regional level and report to the steering
committee. The experience gained under previous projects has been assessed as adequate for the
implementation of the proposed project.
Staffing and duties at the regional level. In each park, a PMT will be established which will be headed by
the park conservator (who belongs to the Forestry Arrondissement of the CRDA) and the representatives of
the regional environment directorates (DREs), and the Ministry of Tourism as well as the DCs. The
CRDAs and the DREs would be responsible for the implementation of the project components within the
govemorate, according to the defined institutional framework. The accounting specialist in each CRDAs
will serve as the regional focal point in accounting and disbursement fields including periodic transmission
of analytical sheets (transactions related to commitmnents and disbursements ) and copy of supporting
documents to the PMU.
Accounting and reporting. The DGF has acquired experience in accounting and reporting for project with
financing from extemnal donors through previous projects (mainly SFDP). The Financial and Accounting
Unit (FAU) within DGF consists of five accounting and financial staff. DGFIOP is expected to provide an
assistance in project accounting and reporting during the first year of implementation in order to help DGF
to acquire the needed expertise in project financial management mainly through the use of the accounting
and reporting software installed for WSEL and Agricultures Services Projects. To establish a sound
financial management system, and an acceptable system for the accounting, monitoring and evaluation,
each agency/technical department involved in the project will designate officially a coordinator responsible
- 53 -



for issuing sub-project accounts and sub-Financial Monitoring Reports.
Financial and accountine policies. These are reflected in the PIP and aim at ensuring transparency,
providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and finance staff, ensuring
uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies inter-alia cover the following aspects: (i)
expenditures which, would be treated as project expenditures including their classification; (ii)
expenditures, which would be eligible for reimbursement from the grant funds; and (iii) accounting rules
and procedures.
Project Accountine System. The overall principles for project accounting are the following:
(i) Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds, and all utilization of project funds including
paymnents made and expenditures incurred. All project-related transactions (whether involving cash or not)
would be taken into accounts in the accounting and reporting system. Disbursements made by the World
Bank and the transaction proceeded through the Special Account maintained by BCT would also be
included in the project accounting system. Counter part funds will be shown separately.
(ii) Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities. This distinction
would be reflected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance for the project capturing all
projects receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the project would be prepared. CRDA would be
held to transmit on a trimestriel basis, separate progress statements (spread sheets summarizing
transactions committed and /or disbursed) with copy of all supporting documents to the PMU. Aggregation
of data would be the responsibility of PMU.
(iii) The Chart of Accounts for the project should conform to the classification of expenditures and sources
of funds as indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document,
COSTAB) and the budget breakdown. The Chart of Accounts should allow data to be captured in a manner
to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure
allocation; and (iii) disbursement categories.
(iv) Reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements, Financial Monitoring Reports and the legal
accounting records (mainly ADAB, SIADE, approved financial statements for the independent entities)
would be done at the level of DGF by the FAU.
The flow of funds will be as follows:
*      Payments from state budget would be the responsibility of CRDA and DRE, at the regional level,
and DGF and DGEQV at the central level. This consist of disbursement approval and payment through
"Tr6sorerie G6n6rale" accounts and sub accounts.
*      Payments from GEF's funds through SOEs, would be processed exclusively at the central level.
DGF would be held to review supporting documents and attest eligibility of expenditures before
transmission of the documents to the Central Bank (SOEs and WA) and the Bank when direct payments are
requested. Request for replenishment would be the responsibility of BCT.
*      BCT would be responsible of payments from special accounts and issuing of monthly statements
and their transmission to PMU and the Bank
Intemal Controls. The procedures included in the PIP include the following internal control mechanisms:
(i)    operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with
- 54 -



budgets and targets;
(ii)   adoption and operation of simple, clear and tanwsparent financial and accounting policies which
would govem financial management of and accounting for the project (as described earlier).
(iii) at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for
ensuring standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, easy access to supporting
documents etc.;
(iv)   BCT and MOF will provide the PMU on a monthly basis, with statement of accounts for both
Special account and grant account The financial and accounting specialists will do a monthly
reconciliation of balances and will ensure to explain any detected difference between accounting records
and statements.
(v) establishment and operation of a comprehensive aggregation mechanism, including the issuing of
annual project financial statements and bi-annual Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR).
Financdal Management Reports
Financial Monitoring Reports for the project would be generated from the computerized financial
management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than
transactional details) and would be used for the monitoring and implementation of the project. The FMR
includes the following tables:
*      Summary of expenditures comnitted and disbursement by component
*      Summary of expenditures committed and disbursement by category
*      Summary of the procurement process and procedures
*      Summary of sources and uses of funds
Project Financial Statements to be submitted to the auditor would include (i) a statement of sources and
utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from GEF and from the state budget,
project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules classifying project expenditures
by components and expenditure categories; (iu) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iv) a
Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Audit Afrangements
As an exception to the Bank requirements and guidelines, the accounts and financial statements of the
project would be audited by the
"Contr8le General des Finances" (CGF), who would be the Project Auditor. The annual project financial
statements audited by CGF would be
submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of GOT's fiscal year.
The audit would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of
funds, and expenditures incurred). The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing. Terms of Reference (TORs) for this assignment should cover an audit of financial transaction,
- 55 -



and an assessment of the financial management system, including review of internal control mechanisms.
Each CRDA as well as structures at the central level would provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required for the purposes of the audit. The Auditor
would carry out a concurrent audit dunng the fiscal year, to bring to management's attention any issue,
which needs to be addressed. This would strengthen intemal controls, and would also facilitate early
completion of the annual audit. The auditor will perform the audit according to: (i) the International
Standards of Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, (ii) Bank's Guidelines and
(iii) specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional
opinion on the annual project financial statements, SOEs and SA transactions and will submit to the Bank
an annual audit report within 6 months after the end of each government fiscal year
Disbursement Arraneements
Withdrawals from the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund will be based on' the traditional
disbursement methods of the Bank, using direct payments , requests for special commitments and
reimbursement applications , either fully documented or using Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as per
applicable procedures. As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be
completed four months after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard Bank
documentation.
i) Special Account (SA): To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for works , goods, services
and training the Government will open a special account at the Central Bank to cover eligible project
expenditures to be managed and administered by the Central Bank . Authorized allocation of the special
account would be US$ 350, 000 covering an estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures financed by the
Grant. The Central Bank will be responsible for submitting, on behalf of the Project Management Unit
(PMU) monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documentation for expenditures
incurred and will retain and make the documents available for review by Bank supervision missions and
project auditors. To the extent possible, all eligible project expenditures should be paid through the special
account . Specifically all eligible project expenditures of less than US$ 50,000 equivalent shall be paid
from the SA.
The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a
monthly basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as my be required
Ii) Use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs): All applications to withdraw proceeds from the grant will be
fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 500,000 each or
less for works, iii) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 400,000 each or less for goods
, iii) US$ 100,000 or less for consulting firms and (iii) US$ 50,000 or less for individual consultants and
training , which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the PMU and will be available for
review when requested by Bank supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements will be
subject to the conditions of the grant Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
- 56 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
iP'roJ.  Sdhe6ule                                 Plannd                           I
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18                          32
First Bank mission (identification)             10/01/1998                   10/01/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     02/18/2002                  02/25/2002
Negotiations                                    04/15/2002
Panned Date of Effectiveness                    09/02/2001
Prepared by:
M'inistry of Environment and Landuse Planning and M'inistry of Agriculture with input from the World
Bank
Preparatlon assistance:
GEF Preparation Grant (PDF- Block B)
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                     Speciality
Shobha Shetty, MNSRE              Economics/Institutions
Concepcion del Casfillo, MNSRE    Sociology
Jean-Michel Pavy, AFTES           Natumal Resources Management
Samnia Msadek, MNSRE              Financial Management
Maurice Gress, MNACS              Procurement
Nadia Gouhier, MNSRE              Procurement
Susan Shen, EASES                 Peer reviewer -Ecology
Robert Kirmse, LCSEN              Peer reviewer - protected areas mnanagement
Hernan Torres, GEF -STAP          Peer reviewer - external (GEF)
Dominique Bichara, LEGMN          Legal
Hovsep Melkonian, LOAGI           Disbursement
Marie-Francoise How Yew Kin,      Team Assistant
MNSRE
Salah Darghouth, MNSRE            Sector Manager, Water and Environment
Petros Aklilu, MNSRE              Sector Manager, Rural Development
Rene Cipriani                     Integrator/Project Management
- 57 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Procurement Plan (1st year) February 2002.
PIP.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
PCD March 28, 2001
Pre-appraisal mission: BTO dated December 3, 2001
Technical report on ecotourism dated November 27, 2001
Appraisal mission aide-memoire and BTO: March 18, 2002
C. Other
Consultant diagnostic reports on the three parks; research; taining; GIS; dossier dexecution. Process
Framework (O.P 4.12)
*Including electronic files
- 58 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
07-Nov-2001
Drmno ben epecned
and au
Orgnsl Amount In US$ MlkIns                                disbusements
Pmoje ID      FY    Prposae                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Canoel.   Undlsb.      Orig  Ffn Revd
P0o40c2       2001 TRANSPORTSECTORDVESTENrPROJECT                   37.    00 0o00                            0.00     38.11       S73       0.00
P048625       2C01 TN-CULTURAL HERITAGE                             17.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     17.11       0.00      0.0
POOS70       2001 TNAGRIC. SUPPORT SVCS                            21.33      o0oo                 0.00      .00      21.84       0.67      0.00
P050945       20DC  T.EAcduanPAQSETI                                99.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     97.01       0.18      0.00
P035707       2000 NWATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT                10o.        0.00                 0.00      0.0     10006       -2.08      0.00
Po05814        1999 TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                           35.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     24.58      13.10      0.00
P0437C0       1998 TRANSPORT SECTOR INV                             50.00      0.00                 0.00       oo       18.81     24M        0.00
POSD418       1998 TNAS0L2                                          42.00      0.00                 0.00      o.o0      5869       9.78      0.00
P00874s       1998 TN-HEALTH SECTOR LOAN                            50.00      0.00                 0.00      00oo     25.86      23.90      0.00
P005741      1M8 HIGHER EDUCG II                                   80D.0      0.00                 0.00      0.0      50.10      31.04      0.00
PO46832       1997 MUNICIPAL DEV. U                                 80.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      1.T7       7.81      0.00
P005731       1997 TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE                         000       00o                  0.00      0.0o      39.79     22.32      o.0o
P00573s        1997 NATURAL RESOURCE MGM                            28.0       o0                   0oo       0.00      14.00     14.10      0.00
P006745       1996 2NDEUPL &TRa                                     60.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      20.6      21S4       3.54
P04   8       1998 TN4NDUSTRY SUPPORTINSTUTIOnON                    38.70      0.0                  0.00      6.32      16.80     28.03      0.00
P006749       1995 RURAL ROADS                                      81.60      0.00                 0.oo      0.00      1.01       0.71      0.00
P005743       1995 SECONDARY EDUCATION                              98.30      0.0                  0.00      0.00       9.92     17.37     17.37
PO05M9        1995 SOLAR WATER HEATNG                                00        0.00                 4.00      0.00       1.42     -122       0.00
PO68O        1995 TN-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                     58.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      12.24     11.91      0.00
P005728       1992 HIGHER EDUCATION                                 75.00      0.00                 00oo      0.00      18.79     22.19     22.19
Total:    1082.l 3      0.00               4.00        8.32     542.03     247.41     43.10
-59-



TUNISIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Dlsbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  _Quasi   Partic
1998/00            BLAT                           0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00
1995               Maghreb IN5 Bank               0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00
1986/92/98         SrTEX                          0.00    0.77    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.77    0.00    0.00
1973/75            Sousse-Nord                    0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00
1998               Tuninvest                      0.00    4.59    0.00     0.00    0.00    4.59    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.00    6.57     0.00    0.00     0.00    6.57    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
Tota Pending Commintment:         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
- 60 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          a North   middle-
Tunisia    Africa   Income      Development dlamrnd
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                       9.6      296     2,046                 Ltfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Attas method, US$)                  2,090     2,040     1,140
GNI (AMsa method. USS btIlIns)                       20 1      602     2.327
Averags annual growth, 1994-00
Population I16)                                       1.4       2.0       .0
Labor force (                                         2.5       2 8       1.3     GNI           -                Gross
sto trecentestimate (latest year available, 199400)                              cpe                 ,        e primary
Poverty (IX of population below national poverty line)  8
Urban oopulation (X of total populaton)               66        59        42
Ltfe expectancy at birth (Years)                      73        e6        69
Infant mortalitv (Per 1,000 Omv births)               24        44        32
Child malnutrition (X of children under S)             9                  I, 1I       Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source I(1 ofpopulaton)    ..       89        80
lliitracy (1 of population age 15+)                   29        35        15
Gross primary enrotment (%of school-age population)  116        95       114              Tunlsla
Male                                               122       102       116            Lower-middle-4ncome group
Female                                             114        88       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           8.7     12.3      21.0      19.5
Gross domestic lnvestmenttGDP               29.4     32.5      26.8      27.4
Exports of aoods and services/GDP           40.2     43.6      42.2     44.0                     Trade
Gross domestic sevinas/GDP                  24.0     25.5      24.6     23.9
Gross national savinas/GDP                           27.1      24.6      23.5
Current account balance/GDP                 -4.3     -5.5      -2.1      -4.2     Domestic                   Investment
Interest paymentslGDP                        2.6      3.2       2.4       3.1     +aIngs
Total debt/GDP                              40.3     62.4      56.6      545      savings
Total debt servicalexports                  13.9     24 1      16.1      20 2
Present value of debt/GDP                                      56.2
Present value of debtexpotts                                  121.0
Indebtedness
19S0-90  199040      19t9      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.3      4.7      6.1       4.7       6.2              7unlsis
GDP per caglta                      0.8      3.0      47        3.4       4.8              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       5.6      5.1      4.7       6.6       5.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(IX of GDP)
Aariculture                                 14.1     15.7      12.9      12.3 3   
Industr                                     31.1     29.8      28.0      28.8 -
Manufacturing                              11.8    16.9       17.9     18.2        '
Services                                    54.8     54.5      59.0      58.9     10      5    so   97    e    9a9  00
Private consumption                         61.5     58.2      59.9      60.5    ao
General govemment consumption               14.5     16.4      15.5      15.7              -Gt                 i
Imports of goods and sorvices               45.6     50.6      44.4      47.6 6                                0
1960-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports wnd Imports (I%)
(average annual growth)
Aaricuiture                                  2.8      2.4      11.6      -1.0    1s
Industry                                     3.1      4.6       6.1       5.2    lo                 _
Manufacturina                              3.7      5.5       6.2       6.2       I
Services                                     3.5      5.3       5.7       5.3
Private consumption                          2.9      4.3       5.8       5.2           Os          97   s     99   00
General government consumption               3.8      4.1       4.3       4.7    4
Gross domestic Investment                   -1.8      3.6       4.8       1                aE-o-s :Imports
Imports of goods and services                1.7      3.8       3.0       96 f
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the countrV (in bold) compared with Its Income-aroup average, If data are missina, the diamond will
be Incomple.
- 61 -



Tunisia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FNANCE
198      1990      1f       2000     Infltoon (%)
DomoSdcprke
(% change)                                                                      *
Consumer prices                               .      6.6       2.7      2.9    t
ImplicIt GDP deflator                      12.8      4.5       3.8      2.4    4
Govemnment flnan 
(6 ofGDP, lndudtes cutm3ntgrants)                                              O..                 |    z 
Current revenue                            28.7     26.4      29.2     29.0           a5    es    57    es   a9
Current budget balance                      8.8      2.3       4.5      4.9                 G     SP d Wlater  *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     0 9     -4 6      -2.2     -2.9
TRADE
11980    1990     199       2000     EXPDrt w nd m t level (US$ mlD.)
(US$ mlbons)
Total exports (fbb)                       2,395    3,517     5,873    5,840     0.000
Fuel                                     1,347     607       420      651
AwriutLbre                                 as      398       667      470      ?   .*1
Manufactures                              905    1,995     4,058    4,005
Total Imports (cIf)                       3.623    5,525     8,481    8,564           *-
Food                                      388      SW        557      538     2^0
Fuel and energy                           799      487       541      827
Capital goods                             742    1,235     2,       2099
Export proe index (1995=100)                  ..     77       122         ..
Import pife Indtx (1995=100)                  ..     86       118         ..              KExpot       *ImpcrtB
Terrmsoftrade(1995100)                               90        103
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
1980    1i990      19i9     200      Current account balance to GOP %)
(US$ -Dons)
Exports of goods and services             3,517    5.191     8,793    8,608     0
Imports of goods and seIes                3,986    5.988     8,248    9.311
Resource balance                           469      -795      -455    -705
Net income                                 -293     -497     -890     -941        I         I      1-1- -        1
Net currnt transtfen                        390     613       902       825
Currnt acoount balance                     -373     -679     -443      -821
FInandng items (net)                        438     596      1,132      578
Changes nnet nrserves                       45       83       -690      243
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millros)        599     804      2,272    1,760
Conversion rate (DEC, loweIUS$)             0.4      09        1.2      1.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  CompaistIon of 2000 dabt (US mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbused       3,527    7,690    11.872   10,610
IBRD                                      269    1,346     1,323    1.211                G0o"      A: 1211
IDA                                        68      59        41        39                    -B39
TotEd debt service                          544    1,431     1,565    1,921                                   c: 32
IBRD                                       37     214       269       229
IDA                                         1       2         2         2
Compositlon of net resource flons                                               F:3          T               D:2,183
Offidal grants                             26     174        73         3
Offidal creditors                         251     342        121        0
Private creditofs                         102     -197      369       214                1'
Foreign clrect Investment                 236     185       337       731
Portfolio equity                            0       0         0         0                           E:2,590
World Bank pogram
CommItnents                               171      29        194      202     A - lRD                   E - Bsarsl
Dlsbwb ements                              52     213       210       136     B- IDA   D Other miutllateral  F - Prvat
Prlndpalrepayments                         15     112        168      152     C-I10                      G-Shctmm
Notflows                                   37     100        42       -17
Interest payments                          23     104        103       80
Net transfer                               14       -3       42       -96
Development Economics                                                                                           9117101
-62 -



Additional
Annex 11
STAP Review and Response:
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Reviewer: Hernin Torres
1. Assessment of the scientific and technical soundness of the project.
The scientific value of the proposed project is based on the fact that the three national parks were
selected on the basis of their importance to the regional and global biological diversity. Each of the
ecological regions represented by the three national parks is distinct and will present different challenges
to its effective management
Technically, the project is well structured to achieve the main goal intended, which is: To improve the
management and protection of the selected national parks for the purpose of conserving biological
diversity of global importance.
To reach this goal the project is organized in three components well articulated among each other. Their
contents should allow the achievement of the desired goal if the project is implemented appropriately.
From a conceptual point of view, the project proposes an important tool which is the participation of
local communities in the management of the national parks by establishing local Development
Committees. In addition to this, the project will look for appropriate technical approaches, institutional
frameworks and monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.
It was decided to limit the number of national parks to three in order to keep the project size manageable
by the existing institutional capacity. This is extremely important, considering that this is the Tunisia's
first major protected areas management project.
2.  Identification of the global benefits of the project.
The important biological diversity protected in the three selected Tunisian national parks is well known.
Bouhedma and Jbil National Parks are important priorities under the Bonn Convention on Migratory
Species of Wild Animals. Ichkeul National Park is listed as World Heritage Site under the Convention
on World Heritage and as Ramsar Site under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. The UNESCO's
Man and the Biosphere Program recognizes Ichkeul National Park and Bouhedam as Biosphere
Reserves.
* Bouhedma National Park protects an important habitat for rare artiodactyls such as the Dorcas
Gazelle (Gazelle dorcas) and the Oryx (Oryx dammah). The national park also protects 8 of the 14
endemic plant species of the country.
*   Jbil National Park protects unique Saharan ecosystems and intemationally important biological
diversity, some of which is found only in Tunisia. The national park protects a globally important
antelope species such as the Slender-Homed Gazelle (Gazella leptoceros) and a unique plant species
- 63 -



(Calligonum) which attain several meters in height
* Ickeul National Park is recognized as one of the four major wetland areas in the western basin of
the Mediterranean. The other three are Dofiana National Park in Spain, the Camargue in Southern
France and the El Kala region in Algeria. The national park is a critical habitat for the globally
threatened Marbled Duck (Anas angustirostris) and the White-Headed Duck (Oxyura leucocephala).
Both Bouhedma and Jbil national parks also have potential to be re-populated with species from other
parts of the Sahelo-Saharan region. An important fact considering that recently the Government of
Tunisia has worked to re-introduce extirpated antelope species in the country. This is part of an overaUll
action plan which the governments of several Sahelo-Saharan countries, together with specialists from
the World Conservation Union (IUCN), World Wild Fund for Nature and local groups have worked out
under the Bonn Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals to reestablish viable populations of
six antelope species in a large area.
Therefore, the successful implementation of the project in the selected national parks is globally
significant and the World Bank/GEF support is justified for the folowing reasons:
*   It will strengthen the conservation of critical Saharan and wetland habitats;
* It will develop incentives to naintain these protected areas in the long term;
*   It wil establish capacity to ensure adequate management of these protected areas in the long term;
*   It will promote community participation in the management of the national parks selected; and
*   It wiUl establish links and colaboration with neighboring countries.
3.     Evaluation of the project compliance with GEF objectives, operational strategy and
guidance in blodiversity focal areas.
The project wilU strengthen the management of key national parks in Tunisia with increased participation
of local communities for the purpose of conserving biological diversity of global importance. This
coincides with the GEF Operational Strategy in terms of biological diversity conservation and with the
operational progrms N° 1: Arid and Semi-Arid Zone Ecosystems and N° 2: Coastal, Marine and
Freshwater Ecosystems.
4. Assessment of the project's significance and potential benefits.
The project is significant because it will increase and improve the existing protected areas management
capacity with new skiUls needed to manage and conserve important biological diversity.
The improvement of the existing management capacity will be achieved by implementing the folowing
components:
* Capacitv building and Institutional Strengthening. This component includes training programs,
establishment of a national database on biodiversity and strengthening the ability to monitor changes in
biodiversity, studies on institutional issues including environmental legislation and additional funding
mechanisms for protected areas.
- 64 -



*    Protected areas management. This component includes the application of new skiUs in planning
and management of protected areas, sustainable resource management, alternative livelihood
mechanisms and ecotourism strategy.
*    Public awareness and education. This component includes the development of an awareness and
education strategy by using mass media, formal and informal education mechanisms, and by developing
links with local non-governmental groups, schools, tourism agencies, and other organizations to promote
public understanding about biological diversity resources.
The imnplementation of these components is an adequate way to conserve critical habitats and to enhance
the probability of their long term conservation. It will also make possible to establish effective
management capacity, develop incentives to maintain protected areas in the long-term and to introduce
the community participation as a new protected area management approach.
5. Potential replicability of the project to other sites.
The inclusion of multiple stakeholders participation in the management of protected areas by
establishing Development Committees is an experience that can be replicated in other areas of the
country and in the region as weUl. At the same time the management approaches to be applied such as
protected areas planning and management including site interpretation, awareness raising activities,
research and monitoring will certainly serve as models to be replicated in the other five protected areas
of Tunisia.
Morocco has proposed the establishment of BasDraa National Park which has a similar ecosystem as
that of Jbil National Park The experience gained in Jbil can be replicated in BasDraa, due the fact that
they face the same management challenges.
6.     Estimation of the project's sustainability in institutional, financial and technical terms.
The description of the project indicates that it wiU be institutionaUy, financially and technicaly
sustainable. An interministerial Steering Commitee with representatives from the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Environment and Land
Use Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of International Cooperation wiUl be formed
to provide oversight during project implementation.
The Steering Committee will be retained during project implementation and will be responsible for
providing project oversight advice and assistance in resolving issues associated with project
implementation.
At the national level the Directorate General of Forestry (DGF) wiU assume the responsibility for
project's management during its execution phase. A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
established and will have the responsibility for coordination, management, and monitoring and
evaluation of the project's development
At the regional level, the PMT wiU coordinate the project activities through local institutions and the
national park conservator who wiU be selected in agreement with local institutions will be the
coordinator of management activities including guard services, community outreach, and monitoring
activities. Local communities wil participate in the project's implementation through the formation of
Development Committees and a Forestry Association in the case of Ichkeul National Park.
-65 -



The experience gained in this project, in terms of financial mechanisms and management approaches,
will provide the basis for mainstreaming these factors in the broader government strategy for national
parks management.
7.     Extent to which the project will contribute to the improved definition and Implementation
of the GEF strategies and policies.
The project is an important attempt in the strengthening of protected areas management as a means to
achieve the conservation of biological diversity in Tunisia. This is an important strategy in the
implementation of the GEF policies.
The project will be the first World Bank/GEF experience in the country and will certainly contribute to
increase awareness and global support for the management of Tunisia's protected areas. In addition to
this, the project has been developed in close consultation with the UNDP/GEF, which at present is
working with the Government of Tunisia in an alterative livelihood project in Feija National Park.
UNDP/GEF is also preparing a project on marine protected areas which has been coordinated with this
initiative.
Other World Bank/GEF biodiversity conservation projects in the region (Morocco and Jordan) will offer
opportunities to exchange experiences in terms of biodiversity monitoring and evaluation, review, and
scientific oversight
8.  Linkages to other focal areas.
The proposed project is also linked to the operational programs N° 1: Arid and Semi-Arid Ecosystems
and N° 2: Coastal, Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems. The project design and implementation is meant
to support natural habitat conservation and is aimed at integrating the conservation of natural habitats
and the maintenance of ecological function into national and regional development. The project also
promotes the restoration of degraded natural habitats.
In addition to this, the project will serve as important tool for Tunisia's response to intemational
conventions such as Ramsar Convention, World Heritage Convention, Bonn Convention on Migratory
Species of Wild Animals, and the Convention on Biological Diversity. The National Biodiversity
Strategy, already prepared, will be greatly enhanced by this project
9. Degree of Involvement of relevant stakeholders in the project.
The project concept and its components have been prepared with a participatory approach. This active
participation of multiple stakeholders will continue during implementation of the proposed activities
through the Steering Committee and the formation of Development Committees and a Foreshy
Association in the case of Ichkeul National Park.
In addition to this, the project will build mechanisms and capacity to assist local stakeholders -in
particular the local communities dependent on the resources of the national parks, local governments,
and non-governmental organizations- to participate in the preparation and implementation of
management plans. The effective management of the selected national parks will benefit poor rural
communities and local economies adjacent to the national parks through stimulation of ecotourism as
well as activities based on the sustainable management of natural resources of the national parks.
-66 -



10.   Role, potential and importance of capacity building elements and Innovativeness of the
project.
The project will establish operating models to improve protected area management and build
management capacity at the local level in order to replicate this experience and mainstream biological
diversity conservation in other national protected areas and natural resources management projects.
The participation of multiple stakeholders in the management of protected areas by establishing
Development Committees is the main innovativeness of the project The public awareness action will be
focused on the local communities in and around the national parks and the local govermments in order to
develop the grassroots awareness necessary to sustain a participatory approach to national parks
management
11. Comments on evaluation and monitoring.
The evaluation of project performance will be based on the following general indicators:
Stabilization or improvement of demographic status of key bio-indicators specific to each national
park (vegetative cover and distribution; local aninal/bird populations)
*   Reduction in adverse impacts of resource use (grazing, forest products, etc.) on the biological
diversity of the national parks.
*   Development and implementation of management plans with the active participation of local
communities including additional financing mechanisms, database on biodiversity and number of
families participating in alternative livelihood projects.
This evaluation scheme seems appropriate to measure the progress in the implementation of the project
on the ground. To take advantage of this approach could be useful to prepare and implement a specific
and simple monitoring mechanism in order to allow the personnel to know when and what to measure, to
take maximum advantage of patrols, and to guarantee a systematic data collection. The design should
include the selection of indicators to evaluate communities, animal and plant populations and other
processes identified as priority within the national parks.
The design would consider the evaluation of monitoring activities and the suitability of indicators, in
order to make improvements in the mechanism. The following monitoring guidelines may be considered:
*   Clima*c monitoring:
In certain cases, the lack of climatic information of national parks makes it difficult carry out
management activities, therefore there is a need to install meteorological stations and to
complement those already existing and the current data processing, if any.
*   Monitoring offauna andflora populatons:
The objective is to make a record of specific populations important for conservation, based on
the abundance and biology of some species. This work should be carried out mainly by the
national park personnel and should be concentrated on key species. However, there will be a
need for support from specialized personnel.
*   Monitoring of human actvites:
A follow up of human activities including the local communities' use of resources and tourism
activities should be carried out to prevent and to control their environmental impact, based on
the appropriate indicators.
-67 -



Monitoring of ecosystems and sensitive sites:
A monitoring of ecosystems and sites defined by zoning, fragility and ecological importance
should be designed. This is important considering issues such as the evidence of climatic
changes and of the expansion of deserts that are more important in the dry regions. In the case
of this project, it seems necessary to carry out monitoring activities to learn the dynamics of
water resources and their influence on biological diversity.
Response to STAP Review:
It is encouraging to note that the STAP review is, in general, extremely positive. The project
team is fully in agreement with the guidance proposed by the STAP reviewer regarding the
monitoring aspects. The M&E system presented in Annex 1 has been revised appropriately.
Climatic monitoring has also been included in the indicators. The overall M&E will be further
strengthened during project appraisal.
-68 -



Additional
Annex 12
Social Assessment
TUNISIA: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Introduction
This annex highlights the issues that were raised by the social analyses conducted for the preparation of the
Protected Areas project by a joint team of BRL and GEOIDD. Each of the three proposed protected areas
presents a unique social configuration as well as an ecological set of problems and challenges. Because of
this, the analyses were conducted with the joint participation of a sociologist and technical teams to respond
in a holistic manner to the unique challenges posed by each area.
The fimdamental premise underlying the design of this project is that unless communities form an integml
part of the protected area management and are committed to the protection of the parks' biodiversity, any
initiative that is highly centralized and controlled will be doomed to failure. As such, this project presents a
key departure from other protected area projects in two fundamental ways: (i) it recognizes that the
proposed areas are not pristine and untouched, but are still highly significant in terms of biodiversity
conservation, but (ii) where human habitation has left its mark and will continue to do so while preserving
biodiversity. By such recognition and through a participatory approach, this project seeks to successfully
mainstream the spirit and procedures of biodiversity conservation while working in partnership with the
communities in and around the parks to ensure that the natural resources on which many households
depend, are not totally restricted but are used in a sustainable manner. A Process Framework for
Community Participation has been prepared by the Tunisian MEAT and accepted by the Bank in
compliance with OP 4.12 This framework will be the guide to ensure that the communities of beneficiaries
have an active role in the preparation of the Park Management Plans
Common Social Issues in the Three Parks
Root Causes of Biodiversitv Loss. The social assessments identified the root causes of biodiversity loss
from the ecosystenic and socio-economic perspectives. The two are linked because the increasing
population pressure on the natural resources has exacerbated biodiversity loss and soil erosion primarily
through overgrazing, and fuel and fodder collection. There are altematives to the way in which these
resources are used, but finding alternatives requires an in-depth understanding of how and why the current
populations came to use these areas in the first place.
Human Pressure. In the central and southern part of Tunisia, the population was primarily nomadic until
after the Second World War. There had been a gradual process of sedentarization, but by and large, in
these sections of the country the population remained mobile, with land use governed by well known
customary laws, accompanied by a deep understanding of the links between environment and people, and a
cultural tradition that continues to be rooted in the conception of desert and humans as a single entity.
Meanwhile, in the North, the population was agrarian and suffered the most because of loss of lands to
colonial settlers.
Historically, the process of sedentarization of what was once a nomadic population (Jbil and Bou Hedma)
resulted in dramatic changes in land use. Areas which were once used seasonally as nmgeland or grazing
land by nomads or trnshumants began to be used year round on a regular basis. This land whose use for
-69 -



agriculture is inappropriate and marginal, began to suffer from the encroachment of agriculture to feed a
population year round. This process has led not only to a deterioration of the resource base and loss of
biodiversity, but also to a disturbing cycle of gradual but deepening impoverishment of the population.
Leeal Frameworks. The Tunisian laws governing land tenure and land use (notably the Forestry Code)
which were established after Independence (1956), affect the populations of the parks directly. Once
govemed by customary laws, that were themselves rooted in tribal social forms of organization, the
population's traditional land use began to fracture under the French Protectorate. In the highly productive
agricultural areas of the country (north and Sahel region) where land had always been a prized commodity,
the impact of colonial establishment had already been felt, and impoverished segments of tribes had been
displaced to m^ore marginal, mountainous, and less favorable resource areas. However, the French
maintained and accepted the existence of habous (religious trust lands) as well as the collective lands under
tribal customary tenure. Because of this the people's production system and land use continued with
relatively few changes. The abolition of the habous and the collective lands after Independence had different
effects in various parts of the country. In those areas that had already been touched by colonization, it led
to a scramble to privatize what had once been common resources. However, in the central and southem
parts of the country, the new legislation had a severe impact because it in fact separated the social
organization and mode of production of the people from their land. This gave rise to contentious land
claims that still persist today.
The fact is that the legislation is one step removed from the reality of daily life of the people that, to a large
extent, still rely on their traditions, organizational forms and beliefs as a way of goveming their lives.
National legislation is only felt in case of conflicts with the law.
This reality is one that is central to the project because the main challenge will be to work for biodiversity
conservation, with community participation, while the existing legislation still maintains an outdated and
controlling approach to the management of natural resources.
Poverty. Finally, the unfortunate pervasive common problem to all three parks is the growing poverty
among the residents within and in the areas surrounding the parks. Because of the combination of factors
outlined above: restriction of exploitable space, and declining resources in light of a growing population,
the main stakeholders of the park space are those that traditionally have received the fewest benefits. The
poverty constitutes the main obstacle to the conservation of biodiversity, because without adequate
alternatives for livelihoods the people cannot do other than to continue over exploiting the resources within
the park boundaries (which have also been for the most part arbitrarily drawn). The approach developed
for this project is pragmatic in that it assumes that unless this issue of poverty is addressed, and the
implementation of the project recognizes the right of the people to exist and persist apace with the
biodiversity that is being conserved, the project will fail in the long term. This pilot is unique in that it is
Tunisia's first GEF-funded project, and because it is participatory as well as realistic. Challenges will
persist, but the design that has been put in place is the best that can be entertained at this time.
Ichkeul National Park
The area covered by the park has been considered a unique site since the XIII century. In modem times,
different areas of the park came under various jurisdictions: the lake under one agency, the mountain and
surrounding areas under the Domaine Publique, and later (1974) the marsh area of Ichkeul under the
jurisdiction of the Departement General des Forets (DGF). The National Park was formed by decree in
1980 and under the tutelage of the DGF, which continued to pursue the management philosophy of
establishing enclosures and forbidding access to the natural resources under their jurisdiction. The park is
- 70 -



an extremely high-profile site being on the World Heritage list as well as being a Ramsar site and Man and
Biosphere site.
The park currently is subdivided into three distinct areas: the mountain, the marsh, and the lake, each with
a different set of rules and development objectives. The mountain and marsh have rules oriented primarily
to the conservation of natural resources, while the lake has been the subject of economic exploitation and
concomitant protection of the fishing interests. There is intensive farming and livestock raising in the areas
immediately outside the park boundaries.
The ancestors of the current inhabitants of Ichkeul came from the surrounding areas of Sejnane and
Joumine and were primarily subsistence farmers and livestock raisers. There were also fishermen that
subsisted on fishing from the lake with traditional methods. The employment picture changed when the
marble quarries opened in the mid-twentieth century, creating an employment growth pole in the midst of
the Ichkeul natural region. This encouraged the settlement in the park of the poorest families in the
Gouvemorat of Bizerte that came to be employed in the quarries. According to the preparatory studies, in
1991 there were 130 households and 700 inhabitants. Many of these employees were left in Ichkeul when
the quarries closed in 1993, but because, inter alia, of the restrictions imposed on the use of park
resources, these numbers have declined to about 65 households and about 320 people (in 2001). The
majority of these people live in several small settlements at the southern foot of Ichkeul Mountain, and they
continue to have rights to live in their traditional homes for the moment, with the tacit understanding that
under current rules of the DGF the households will slowly disappear as the population ages and there are
no available sources of livelihood.
This situation makes for a very impoverished population of primarily day laborers (42 out of 62) receiving
an income from either the fishing (two households under the current concessionaire) or employees of the
park (30 positions total of which 15 are generaUy given to the people living within Ichkeul) that are
irregular, and opt for the daily wage of 3.5 Dinars a day for an average monthly income of 80 DT a month
whereas the minimum salary is 200DT. These '¶hadhira" (The term from the Arabic al haadr means
workers on a site, typically associated with a construction site, but the workers are paid under the Regional
Programs of Fight Against Poverty as a safety net against total unemployment and destitution, administered
by the municipalities. There are three categories: unskilled, Baccalaureat, and Bac + 2 with the highest paid
being the latter at minimum salary levels) employees accept this wage because of the lack of alternative
employment in the immediate area. The households in Ichkeul self-estimated their revenues by category of
employment as follows: the "hadhira" employees have an average annual income of 1,000 DT; the
employees of the quarries and other surrounding construction sites have an annual average income of 3,700
DT; the households with high number of livestock have the highest income levels, averaging about 10,000
DT a year including livestock sales and sharecropping. The annual average income of the families within
the park is about 5400 DT (- U.S$3900) but this masks important disparities. About half of the families
have a total annual income of less than 1000 DT (- U.S$700) and less than 5% of the population have a
total annual income more than 45,000 DT (- $U.S32,000).
The social assessment data show that livestock raising is one source of subsistence as well as savings for
some of the inhabitants of Ichkeul. However, it should be highlighted that these people are not livestock
raisers by tradition as is the case in many other areas of the country. Today, livestock raising for the
people of Ichkeul and the immediate surrounding area constitutes a coping device and strategy for survival.
The distribution of livestock shows this clearly. Livestock is distributed unevenly. The cattle within the
park belongs to an indigenous race, which occupy primarily the mountain zone and run wild. There are
only 36 families out of a total of 65 that actually have cattle, most households average about 8.5 head, and
only one owner has more than 200. In other words, a single owner can use the resources that 25
- 71 -



households could have with 8 head of cattle a piece. This creates a source of pressure for the poor
inhabitants to apply the rules of access more equitably since there is currently unequal use and access to
resources. Over half of the households in Ichkeul do not own and sheep, and only one household has over
200 head. The average per household is 20 sheep. However, these are used as a source of subsistence, and
four households actively raise sheep for the market as well as take in sheep from external households to
raise them within the park boundaries which is another source of friction between the households within the
park boundaries. Goats are raised almost exclusively for subsistence and not often sold. Almost all the
households have some chickens used for subsistence, but there is a high mortality rate since there are no
veterinary services available and vaccination is not commonly practiced.
This combination of unequal access and use of available resources, and lack of alternative sources of
employment, has been an important issue raised by the inhabitants of Ichkeul who see that their joint effort
to participate in the management of the park and its resources will improve their lot and make the rules
transparent and applicable to all. The remaining households with the park boundaries reflect that they
constitute the "last bastion" of a rapidly dwindling population and way of life, but all recognize that the
existing inequalities are the critical problems leading to degradation of resources, in the mountain and
marsh areas but also the water quality of the lake.
In spite, or perhaps because of, the impoverished condition of the inhabitants of Ichkeul there is a strong
feeling of solidarity among them and this has contributed to many community initiatives and attempts to
call the attention of government to improve their quality of life and to regulaize their rights to continue to
live within the park boundaries. However, part of the problem arises because the institutional actors
involved in Ichkeul have no coordination, and this has resulted in contradictory or piecemeal actions. For
the most part, the government agencies have not focused on the human development aspects of park
management, but rather the biological and ecological elements. Similarly, the NGOs that have been
involved have no clear strategy, and their actions are sporadic and uncoordinated.
The analysis of the constraints posed by the creation of the park without consultation of the affected
population and the rapid deterioration of natural resources point to the need to come to a rapid dialogue
between the agencies and the concemed population. The perception of the community that they are the
guardians of the lake and the mountain and they are at one with their environment is an important element
to consider in this dialogue.
There is a need to produce viable solutions including recommendations for negotiations with the population
of Ichkeul that will improve and restore the natural resources of the park yet pennit the impoverished
inhabitants to improve their economic and social situation. Many solutions have been proposed by the
affected people to reduce the charge on grazing and limit the numbers of all livestock. During the
community consultations, a Comite de developpement (CD) was created representing different
stakeholders. This group is a grass roots organization with virtual universal adherence on the part of the
community, that at the time of pre-appraisal was in the last stages of being formalized, and will be
subsequently acting as an AFIC. In it, the participants already have a substantial number of issues to be
resolved and ideas about training and improving their capacity to assist in the park management The
recommendation of the preparation studies is that such groups be legitimized and established as
representatives of the local stakeholders under the NGO law of 1988-93 in order to maintain their
autonomy conceming the development activities that they can undertake so that they can participate in the
management of natural resources while also undertaking other actions external to the park in the
surrounding areas to promote altemative livelihoods. The specific areas of intervention of the CD and the
AFIC(s) will have to be defined further as the organization evolves, but it is thought that they ought to
promote and initiate the management of the high marsh areas. A team of two community development
- 72 -



facilitators (animateurs) will be recruited under the project to work with the CD. They will be closely
involved in the training of the CD members for park management as well as activities that have been
identified, including the rehabilitation of the hammams (public baths), electrification, improvement in the
raising of poultry and rabbits, as well as initial ecotourism activities and products. The community
consultations also showed that there is a potential role for NGOs like the local WWF and the Association
for the development of Ichkeul to be involved closely with the CDs.
The pre-appraisal and appmisal missions made specific suggestions for the continued organizational
development of the CD and training assistance to be given in the interin time until the project is initiated.
This is planned to be initiated during the month of May 2002.
Bou Hedma National Park
The natural area of the region between Gafsa and Gabes was traditionally a formation of Accacia
raddiana. The degradation of this environment began as a result of the sedentarization of the population
which was, until the first quarter of the twentieth century, transhunant and nomadic. The information
gathered during the social assessment shows is incomplete and somewhat contradictory, hence this is one
issue that has to be clarified during project implementation. The existing information shows that the
national park was created in order to save this environment in 1936 but it was never delimited. At that time
the inhabitants used the lands within the national park "boundaries" on habous lands to which they kept
their rights. However, when the Tunisian State abolished collective and habous lands in the 1960s, only
some of the people claimed their rights to those lands as individuals, but the recognition of the title was
denied by legal intervention in 1961, and continues to this date. Their occupation is precarious and illegal,
but nonetheless the local people contest this and thus the clearings within the park boundaries that existed
already in 1936 continue to exist now.
The area that is now the park was subject to more pressure when during World War II Libyan tribes
related to the local ones in the area settled in Bou Hedma fleeing the Italian occupation. During the period
of 1950 through the 1970s different efforts took place to replant the Acacia and to improve the
deteriorating natural vegetative cover. Bou Hedma was integrated into the intemational network of
Biosphere Reserves in 1977. Finally the park assumed its current configuration in 1980 when it officially
was designated a national park by decree and thus placed under the tutelage of the Direction G6nerale des
Forets.
The park has two zones of "temporary occupation" localized in the Communes of Bou Hedma and Haddej,
with approximately 320 households and a total population of 2,400. This population contests the legal
status conferred on the clearing classified as "zones of temporary occupation", which in effect blocks the
possibility for regularizing and clearing the titles to occupancy. Many households were displaced from the
time of the creation of the park through the early 1990s in order to create the core of the park. Today,
young couples have to settle in neighboring communes because there is no possibility of expanding the
original plots, or leave, having received a mostly symbolic compensation. Because of this irregularity in
the status of the occupants, the park authorities have come to see them as illegally occupying a space that is
destined to be closed.
The complicated land tenure issue is accentuated by the total ignorance on the part of the population about
the rationale for the park's existence and its objectives. The social assessment found that in general there
was no awareness on the part of the population as to what a national park is or why they exist There is
universal ignorance of the concept of biodiversity because there has never been any communication. No
women or young girls had ever visited the eco-museum or the park. Few external visitors are allowed,
- 73-



since the permits have to be acquired in Tunis. Previously some of the past conservators established a rigid
and inflexible approach that banned the external population from visiting the park at all. This has begun to
gradually change in most recent years, but the conflict remains that until now the population has been
ignored and detached from its environment because of a lack of rapprochement between administrators,
scientists, and the local population. This situation must change at all costs if there is to be a future in Bou
Hedma, taking stock of the social reality in which the inhabitants live.
The population has depended traditionally on the extensive grazing of sheep, and to a lesser extent camels,
that were the mainstay of the nomadic economy, even with the dramatic reduction of grazing resources due
to closures and drought. The closure of the park automatically restricted access to these formerly used
resources and began a cycle of impoverishment as well as economic change for the population. Some of
the people turned to rainfed agriculture and there are patches of small irrigated agriculture. However, the
efforts are limited by the lack of access of these people to the development programs that exist in the region
because of the precarious nature of their occupancy rights.
Given the high level of risks to agriculture and drought together with the limited grazing areas, the only
recourse of many households is to try to obtain employment within the park. There is little doubt that there
is a need for manpower and workers in the park. In fact, some of them have worked there for decades but
all are still considered "temporary workers" because of budgetary considerations within the DGF. The
only recourse is to be employed as "adhira" which is the only safety net other than total unemployment
with a total annual revenue of 1,555 DT. As in Ichkeul, there is a wide variation in income distribution,
from 3,000 DT per household a year (an average per capita income of 253 DT or USD $177) to about
5,000 DT a year. This means that half of the population is below the poverty line. In fact, the majority of
the households in the park are considered officially indigent, which gives them access to medical services
with a payment of 1ODT a year, and reduction in the costs of medicines. This classification has two
consequences. First, only the households where there are no permanent salaried persons can qualify for this
classification, which leaves bereft of treatment the very poor that have "hadhira" types of salaries (3.5 DT
a day). The access to medical services is equally precarious since the closest dispensaries are at a 4
kilometer distance and the waiting time to see a medical nurse practitioner or doctor is at least 6 hours.
Complicating the health situation is a high natality and mortality rate combined. This in spite of the
national efforts of family planning that have dramatically reduced the size of families elsewhere. In Bou
Hedma there are many families with 6 to 8 children. The preferred marriage pattern continues to be the
traditional endogamous cross cousin marriage which also has consequences for a higher incidence of some
diseases.
Under conditions of such impoverishment the people do not understand the penalties imposed for
trespassing or using some of the resources that they need for survival. They also explain that some of these
prohibited resources, including alfa grass for example, are being degraded because they are not being used.
That alfa requires periodic cutting for its continued survival, and,, most of all, the women say that they
know the alfa requirements, they have never degraded the alfa because it was one of the local products on
which their very existence depended.
In spite of the material economic poverty of the people of Bou Hedma, the traditional culture remains
vibrant. Women produce traditional artisan work such as carpets, flij (tent strips), cereal bags, all woven
on traditional looms. Basket weaving is also well known in the region, but is declining due to restrictions
on the use of alfa grass in the park. There is also traditional pottery, as well as physical culture to maintain
in the form of petroglyphs, some Berber ruins, and Roman villas all of which are of interest to
archaeologists but have not been well studied. There has been no commercialization of the craf-s and local
arts, but the strong traditional knowledge and capacity of the artists and artisans make this a potentially
-74-



important source for income improvement and for the provision of alternative livelihoods.
The problems of the area, in addition to the relation of the people to the park and their poverty, is the
remoteness of the area and the lack of access to social services. There is limited access to running water,
roads, health and education facilities, electrification and sanitation, all have rendered the population's
existence even more precarious. Currently there are no community associations except for two water
users'associations for the existing potable water systems.
However, in the course of the community consultations it became evident that there was total consensus on
the urgent needs that have to be met, including the establishment of a local high school and improved public
transport In addition, of course, the demand for the clarification of the land tenure situation is primordial.
But the community has expressed willingness to work with the park administration to jointly use the park's
resources in a sustainable manner (production of honey, aromatic and medicinal plants, ecotourism, etc.).
More than anything, these people want recognition that they exist as part of the park; that they have been
there for generations, and fought for Tunisian independence with others and who are recognized and not
invisible. If there is this recognition, there will be considerable opening for joint efforts to manage the park
and its resources because they would have real as well as symbolic ownership and would insist on
maintaining its integrity.
The pre-appraisal mission defined the need to produce a detailed map of the occupied zone of the park
together with a census of the occupants and distribution of plots and clearings in order to have a clear idea
and definition of the problems confronting the management of the Zone 2. During the appraisal mission the
visits to the various douars in Zone 2 showed that the location of the douars is still fairly accurate
compared to the French base map, but also that there is a poor understanding of park boundaries, zonation,
and mapping among the local and national level representatives of DGF. This is without a doubt one of the
key issues to be addressed early in implementation. The, next steps will include the necessary measures to
begin the process of community organization where the focus will be not on clearing the issues of land
titling, but rather a focus on obtaining a community consensus for common action to preserve their
environment as well as to regulate the use of space regardless of official park boundaries. This will
eventually deal to a reconsideration of core and buffer zones on the basis of joint technical and sociological
analyzes. The proposed approach would be to establish a local Development Committee (as in Ichkeul, and
under the same conditions of autonomy) to bring together representatives of various groups of stakeholders.
Three community facilitators would be recruited to assist in the process of group formation. Additionally,
there is a need to identify persons that could act as resource persons in the promotion of education and
general sensitization of the population to ecological and biodiversity issues. Discussions during project
preparation with the key government officials have already assured the programming of certain priority
actions to improve the access of the community to the outside world, notably the improvement of the road
network; and electrification; during pre-appraisal, more progress was made with the local authorities as to
the placement of the "college" in the village of El Bouaa adjacent to the Park and initiating the
improvements in potable water supply.
Jbil National Park
The Jbil National Park has recently been created as part of the government's program to attempt to balance
the disparities that have always existed between north and south. The Tunisian South is particularly
challenging because it has been perceived as a "marginal" area divested of resources and with limited
human capital development potential. The emergence of tourism in the southwestern part of the country
began to change these perceptions, and with them the focus of government to increase development in these
regions. The creation of a national park symbolizes the presence of the state and defines the modalities and
- 75-



orientations for its development. It is against this background that the park must be seen.
The park area was identified in 1986-87 but the official decree creating the park was issued in October,
1994. Since then several constructions have begun to delimit the park but the park cannot be said to be
"functional". As with other national parks the decree places it under the tutelage of the DGF. The Jbil
park includes areas that were considered state domanial lands as well as collective grazing lands. A total of
18,200 hectares of collective grazing land was given to the domain of the state under contractual conditions
that have till today, not been accepted by many members of the tribes.
The park covers 150,000 hectares situated at the center of a great natural desert region of the Nefzaoua, an
ancient geographic and territorial entity with a mixture of salt soils, rocky outcrops, and sand, dotted by
some palm trees and covered in the southernmost point by the Grand Erg. It is of difficult access, a
minimum of 2 hours from Douz by trail in the heart of marginal lands of the Nefzaoua. The park limits
were defined by general physiographic characteristics and on a map, with only limited consideration of
ecological characteristics and distribution of the local fauna by ecosystems. The current park boundaries,
thus, are seen as illogical by the local population that can accurately pinpoint where the prized species,
such as the white gazelle can normally be found - and protected. It is generally acknowledged that the
objectives of the park and the criteria of viability and functionality will require a reconsideration of the
existing park limits.
There is no permanent habitation in the park. There have always been temporary users of these spaces,
including traditional nomads, some small village agglomerations, and recently, tourism. The four main
tribes of the Nefzaoua are the Ouled Yacoub, the Merazigues, the Adharas, and the Ghribs-Sabria. Once
all traditional nomads, they have been progressively sedentarized and have increasingly established
themselves in adjacent village areas while reducing the area of transhumance progressively. Today, the
space of the park continues to be used differently by all the populations of the area, but most distinctively.
(a)    The Merazigues sedentarized in Douz, Kebili and Tozeur, who pay shepherds to take care of their
flocks of sheep and goats. Many of these flocks make use of areas closer to Douz and not necessarily
within the park boundaries except in certain seasons under certain conditions (rainfall, wind and heat).
(b) the transhumant population including Merazigues and Sabria, that circulate between the Saharan
oases and the Saharan grazing areas, alternating between temporary occupation close to the oases and
movement of flocks. They transit the park in well defined seasonal transhumance patterns.
(c)    The local nomads belonging to the Tunisian groups, including Sabria and Adharas.
(d)    The grand nomads, above all located in the areas south of the Grand Erg including the Rebaya and
the Souf from Algeria that move with large herds without concern for political boundaries, these tend to
seasonally exploit the southern and western part of the park.
Even within these categories the social assessment showed that there is a typology of different users and
seasons of use that must be understood to ensure the success of any management plan, particularly because
the park area is one of the important areas of passage between ecosystems and therefore of strategic
inportance for the pastoral groups. Although the statistics stopped counting "nomadic households", in
1966 there were still 3,000 households in the Tunisian south. Unofficial sources indicate that there are still
about 200 households in this area that are "mobile in search of grazing".
If there is a feeling of attachment to the land on the part of the inhabitants in Ichkeul and Bou Hedma, in
- 76 -



Jbil, there is more than attachment, because nomadic culture is defined in relation to spaces. This identity
is shown in myth and in everyday life. Because of this identity, the claim to being a part of the territory
that is now within the park boundaries is one that must be understood above and beyond land tenure and
rights. Even if this population is sedentarized, their ancestral identity continues to show through their
culture, social organization and use of space. This space, so essential for the life of these people, was
deconstructed with the establishment of the park. Not only did they lose large areas of grazing land, but
they also were de facto recognized as having no rights to these areas by their exclusion from the decisions
on the delimitation and use of the space within the park.
The community consultations in Jbil were among the most productive and revealing. Many stakeholders
were consulted, including government agencies, travel bureaus, travelers and tourists, hunters' associations,
and other clubs. The most pressing recommendation to emerge from these consultations is the need to
establish a management plan that will be a joint effort between the local stakeholders and the government
agents in charge of the park administration. The consensus emerged that the largest cause of loss of
biodiversity in the Jbil park is not the local and seasonal human presence and animal pressure, but is much
more attributable to illegal hunting, illegal use of motorcycles and four by four vehicles, a lack of means on
the part of the local authorities to actively manage the park and impose sanctions for the transgression of
rules, and the total absence of communication between park authorities and the locally affected population.
Thus, the emerging agenda for action makes it clear that the first block to build an effective management
structure is the consultation and dialogue with the local populations. These consultations should take into
consideration the ecological characteristics and requirements of the local wildlife and vegetation making use
of the existing and prevailing local knowledge of the park area by its traditional users, prior to redefining
its boundaries. The local culture and population should be given the same consideration and protection as
the gazelles and other endangered species. The employment generated by the park should as a priority be
given to the "sons of the desert" adapted to this harsh environment and the best insurance for its continued
maintenance.
The Development Committee approach that was favored as a medium of action in the other two parks was
also favored here by the local population. A separate assessment was also conducted to investigate the
potential for ecotourism in the area of Jbil given the high profile of tourism already in the area.
Safeguard Policy Issues
The proposed project is in its entirety devoted to solve the questions of biodiversity conservation with a
participatory approach. The Tunisian Government is against resettlement of any of the parks'population,
and there is no anticipated action that wi'l result in resettlement or in any further restriction of access to the
resources in the existing parks. Nonetheless, the project team as well as the team responsible for the
preparation studies have taken into account the safeguard policy issues including physical cultural property
as well as resettlement The following general framework will be a guide to community participation and
to the approach required to deal with restriction of access to natural resources. It has the endorsement of
both the Tunisian Government and the Bank, and constitutes the first such document accepted by both
parties.
- 77 -



Process Framework for Community Participation in Biodiversity Conservation and
Resource Management
Tunisia: Protected Area Management Project
I. Introduction
A. Project Obiectives
The Tunisia Protected Area Management Project seeks to improve the management of three national parks:
Ichkeul, Bouhedma, and Jbil so that (i) the improved management contributes to the well being of the
populations living in and around the parks, and; (ii) the trends of biodiversity degradation in these parks are
arrested and/or reversed. The project will reinforce the capacity of the Tunisian Governnent and its
partners to protect and manage biodiversity of national and global importance in a sustainable manner.
The implementation of the integrated park management plans with the active participation of the
communities would provide a model that can be replicated in other similar areas. The project will also
contribute to the execution of the Tunisian National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan adopted in June
1998. The present project design reflects this strategy within its three components: (i) reinforcement of
institutional capacity; (ii) protected area management, and; (iii) public awareness and education.
B. Approach
The project's approach to biodiversity conservation is based on community participation that will take into
account the needs of the local populations and will associate them in the formulation of the management
plans for each park. Each community has its own unique dynamic. The issue of the size of the population
living in Ichkeul and its spatial distribution, for example, differ considerably from the situation in
Bouhedma and Jbil. Thus, the measures and scenarios for participation and the sustainable management of
resources will have to take into account the specific characteristics of each park. The project seeks to
establish the bases for a genuinely participatory approach involving the govermment and the local
populations. This development will be based on the conviction of both parties of the benefits to be derived
from participatory management and will require changes in behavior and attitudes to attain the joint goals
of biodiversity conservation and sustainable improvement of living standards for the populations living in
and around the parks. The project envisages the participation of the communities through the creation of
local development committees (DC) (Comites de Developpement) as described below. The management
plans for each park would be executed for a period of five to fifteen years. The plans will focus not only on
the technical aspects (inventories, infrastructure, surveillance), but also on the strategic socio-economic and
sustainabilify issues (including scientific monitoring and evaluation, negotiations with the local
communities on the key priority actions to reduce the pressure on resources, and to enhance sources of
revenues and alternative livelihoods) to ensure the conservation of biodiversity and sustainability of
resource use.
C. Institutional Framework
The project's participatory approach to biodiversity conservation and natural resource management will be
carried out through the coordination with national, govemorate, and local level institutions. The diverse
activities entailed by the project will require the involvement of other agencies and branches of govemment
- 78 -



(agriculture, education, tourism, scientific research) as well as other actors (construction, tourist operators,
consultant offices), socio-professional organizations and NGOs in the field of popular participation and
awareness.
The main institutions that will be involved in the implementation of the project and of this process
framework will be:
The Project Steering Committee (PSC) (Comite de Pilotage). Is a multidisciplinary body that includes
representatives of the following ministries: (i) Environment and Land use Planning, (ii) Agriculture, (iii)
International Cooperation and External Investment, (iv) Tourism, (v) Finance, (vi) Economic Development.
This committee will define the overall strategy and guidelines to be executed during the project The
committee will have oversight of the project's functioning and will evaluate and approve the work programs
and annual budgets. In particular, the conmmittee will be responsible for the use and implementation of the
Process Framework during the life of the project.
The Project Management Unit (PMU' (Unite de Gestion du Projet). The Project Management Unit will
be the central unit responsible for the coordination of project activities and will ensure the soundness of the
technical, scientific, and financial aspects of project implementation. The PMU will coordinate and ensure
the coherence of proposed actions proposed by the Park Management Teams. The proposed actions will be
discussed at the Local Development Committee (LDC) (Conseil Local de Developpement). The PMU will
submit the annual work programs and budgets to the PSC for validation. The PMU will also ensure that the
technical, human, and financial means will be made available to the implementing agencies and that the
latter will work in accordance with agreed-on procedures.
The Regional Development Council (RDC) (Conseil Regional de Developpement) The Council is located
at the level of each Gouvernorat and it is a consultative as well as decision-making body which has, inter
alia, the following functions: (i) formulation of the regional development plans that must be integrated into
the national social and -economic development plan; (ii) formulation of land-use plans outside of the
municipal boundaries and review of the urban planning for the gouvemorat; (iii) advising on matters of
programs and projects planned for the gouvemorat by the state and its agencies; and (iv) oversight of the
execution of the regional projects approved by various Ministries. In the project's implementation, the
RDC will be the instance of last resort for the resolution of conflicts between the Comites de
Developpement and the Equipes de Gestion du Projet. (See below section H-D).
The Local Development Council (LDC) (Conseil Local de Developpement). At the level of each
Delegation, this Council has the functions of (i) participating in the formulation and implementation of the
environmental protection plans, programs of nature conservation, and natural resources management plans;
(ii) advising on programs of local development and proposing priorities and programming as well as
participating in the formulation of regional development plans. Within the project, the Council will be the
focal point and forum for the discussion of the proposed park management plans as well as the annual work
programs.
The Park Management Team (PMT) (Equipe de Gestion du Projet). A Park Management Team will be
formed at each park, and will be responsible for the action planning and programming. The Park
Conservator will lead it. The team will include representatives of the Ministries of Environment and
Tourism, and will work in close collaboration with the representatives of the local population through the
intermediation of the selected members of the Development Committees (see below) (Comites de
D6veloppernent). Technical staff will be available to assist these teams. The Conservator is responsible
for the day-to-day organization and execution of activities in the park by the authority vested in him by the
- 79 -



Regional Agricultural Development Council (CRDA).
The Development Committees (DC) (Comites de Developpement). These committees will be the base level
institutions for the representation of the population, in order to ensure (I) participation of the communities
in the identification of local development measures within a social-economic space (terroir), (ii) the
provision of all relevant information on the needs of the populations they represent, (iii) mobilization and
organization of the population to facilitate their participation in the development of the park management
plans. As they become more experienced, the Development Committees will have the option of becoming
legally recognized development entities such as Local Interest Groups (Groupements d'Interet Collectifs
,GIC, Development Groups (Groupements de Developpement, GD), cooperatives, etc.
The DCs will be organized at the outset of the project with the necessary accompanying measures including
awareness and training programs, so that the participation of the local communities in the formulation of
the park management and development plans will be ensured from the beginning. These plans, with their
economic and social objectives, will take into account the actions necessary for the conservation of
biodiversity and will be based on an improved use of potential and available natural resources. They will
include activities that will permit the local population's development of, and rational management of the
natural resources in the protected areas. These community development plans will be an integral part of the
park management plans.
II.   General Principles of the Process Framework
A. The Context: conservation and restriction of access to resources In the Protected Areas
Some of the project components may trigger the Bank's Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)
which also includes specific provision for the loss of access to natural resources in parks and protected
areas. To achieve its objective of biodiversity conservation, the project may require the restriction of access
to the resources in the defined core areas that are currently utilized by the population. The protection of
biodiversity in the core areas will require the total restriction of access to its resources. In the rest of the
parks certain activities will be permitted. The activities planned for the implementation of the project,
including those that will result in the formulation of the park management plans, will be negotiated in a
participatory manner with the population, based on recognution of their needs and with the objective of
reconciling both the social development objectives as well as the biodiversity conservation objective of the
project.
According to national legislation, the protected areas are considered the domain of the state as forestry
areas, and activities within them are regulated by the Forestry Code administered by the Forestry
Department Different activities, including grazing, agriculture, and forestry extraction and other uses are
permitted in some areas. Restrictions on the use of these resources can be envisaged where there is a risk of
increasingly perturbing the ecosystem's balance, or where human activities pose a direct threat to
biodiversity. These limitations of access are currently regulated by the existing legislation. In the event that
there is non-conformity with the requiremedts of the Bank's Policy OP 4.12, this process framework will be
used.
B. Process Framework for Community Consultation and Particination
Steps for the formulation of a particpatory strategy. The participation strategy will consist of (a)
identification and caffying out a census of the people potentially affected by the project; (b) definition of
the eligibility criteria for the project affected populations; (c) formulation of the criteria for the
- 80 -



identification of vulnerable groups; (d) elaboration of the process for consultation and dialogue; (e)
propositions for the inclusion of the population in the implementation of the project
1. Community awareness and mobilization
A PMT will be formed for each protected area. These teams will be the main executors of the process
framework when called for through the formulation of action plans that will include:
a)     Dissemination of information, the mobilization of stakeholders, and the creation and training of
DCs.
b)    Information gathering and analysis concerning the specific use of resources and their social
impacts.
c)     Formulation of a management plan in collaboration with the DCs.
d)     Adoption of measures aimed towards the protection of biodiversity in specific zones in cooperation
with the DCs.
2. Participator Measures
a)     Participatory Mapping of condition and use of natural resources. Mapping will provide precise
information on (a) the spatial and temporal variation of resource use (grazing, collection of fire-wood,
medicinal plants, fishing, etc.); (b) methods, location and conditions under which stakeholders and affected
populations utilize the specific resources; (c) customary rights and claims. In the project context the
households considered as dependent on the protected areas will be those that have a direct impact on such
areas. The participatory mapping will be an input to the planning for resource use and for the definition
and formulation of the mitigation measures of any negative impacts.
b)     Participatorv Diagnostics. Are the base tools for a participatory approach, allowing the
identification of the populations and their activities including seasonal uses of the protected areas, the
means of communicating with the affected people, and the types of resources they use. The diagnostics can
also furnish information on the general use of resources in the surrounding areas and they will be used as
the baseline from which mitigation measures as well as other accompanying measures can be defined
(training, integration into the management plans) and for monitoring and evaluation.
c)     Participation and Consultation. Consultations with all concerned stakeholders have already taken
place during the preparation of the project These consultations have confirmed the validity of the
participatory approach as well as underlined the need for compensatory measures required for the people in
the parks and surrounding areas that may lose access to resources. The social analysis during project
preparation has already proposed the measures that will be required for the diffusion of information to
ensure the awareness and involvement of the communities from the onset of the project The information
concerning the planned project activities and the participatory mechanisms will be widely disseminated in
both Arabic and French so that the local populations are informed and involved from the outset of the
project.
3. Creation of the Development Committees and Selection of Representatives for the PMT
The DCs are in the process of being organized and will be operational by the beginning of the project Each
- 81 -



committee will be represented in the PMT. In order to ensure the participation of the communities, the
project will rely on the creation on the development committees at the level of the douar or settlement
(terroir) as appropriate. All the concerned population will be able to participate in these committees and
they will select a number of their members to represent them. The modalities will be defined to ensure that
the interests of women, in particular, are represented in these committees.
For each protected area, a technical inter disciplinary team that will include different specialists will be
available to assist the park conservator. The team will include (among others) a sociologist/anthropologist,
community development specialist, and environmental education and awareness specialists. The training of
the personnel of the PMT and the assistance for the necessary studies and surveys to be undertaken as well
as the activities for community organization will be the responsibility of the technical support team.
4. Key Steps for the Particigatory Strategy
a)     Identification of affected people. There will be a distinction made between the people directly
affected by the restriction of access to resources in the protected areas and those that claim rights for
historical reasons (traditional land occupancy, collective lands with a temporary occupancy status").
b)     Eligibility Criteria of project affected people. Eligibility criteria will be defined at the outset of the
project. They may include, inter alia, physical presence in the protected areas for a certain number of
years, dependency on the resources of the protected area, and benefits or claims of use of the resources, etc.
c)     Criteria for the identification of vulnerable groups. The most vulnerable groups in a population
should be identified early and as a priority because they would be the population with immediate needs that
can only be fulfilled through the use of existing resources to secure their survival and food needs. Criteria
for the identification of these groups could be based on: inability to fulfill their dietary needs, no livestock
or only a small number of livestock and/or poultry, degraded and precarious habitats, inability to ensure the
schooling of children, use of small plots for subsistence or having tenancy status, lack of permanent
income, lack of access to basic infrastructure, etc. Individuals and/or households meeting these criteria will
have a high priority for training in alternative revenue-generating activities and their participation will be
essential in the decision-makdng meetings where reduction of access to resources of the protected areas are
discussed, and participate with inputs to the management plans.
C. Budnet for the Execution of the Process Framework Provisions
The budget for the execution of this process framework is included in the overall project budget
(institutional support, training, education, and alternative livelihoods) and no additional budget is envisaged
for its execution.
D. Process of Consultation for Conflict Resolution and Modalities for the Settlement of Clahms.
It is likely that during the project implementation there will be conflicting views and opinions concerning
the utilization of resources of the protected areas. Where such conflicts may arise, the DC and the PMT
will be the forum for dispute resolution. If they cannot reach an acceptable solution they will present their
claims to the LDC that will strive to reach appropriate solutions and measures. Should conflicts not be
solved by these means, the chims will be settled by the RDC.
- 82 -



E. Monitorine and Evaluation of the Process Framework
The measures taken to execute this process framework will be the responsibility of the PMT and will be
monitored by the PMU. The monitoring reports and the measures taken will be submitted to the PSC by the
PMU and will be followed closely by the Bank during project supervisions. The performance indicators to
ensure that the measures included in this process framework are taken into account are included in the
project log-frame (participation of the population in the development committees, implementation of
accompanying measures, financial benefits accruing to the affected population, claims and dispute
settlement, etc.).
An evaluation of the provisions of this process framework will be undertaken in the third and sixth year of
project implementation.
-83 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31835
5°                9°               10°               11-               12°               13-
M edliterra n ea n    Lake Ichkeul National Park  izerie
Sed,terranean    PartNaotionaldeVi*=                                          TUNISIA
C Iforrin'sTUNISIE37
oTU n,.e          ,         PROTECTED AREAS
_,-,,Jenou aMANAGEMENT PROJECT
z -            PROJET GESTION DES
-36'Et jS,w,4j_ r,, t                                   AIRES PROTEGEES
-36° '(                                /  f            't                                                            36'
~~ ~~,  Maca~~stir
Molidia            PROJECT SITES
A        L G E R I A  ,)                           ,                                  SITES DU PROJET
t v +~o,,  %( .                                           ,- _,   t  , RIVERS
LAKES AND SALT LAKES
335'                            7   J     Sidi Bou Zid                                  DACS ET LACS SALTES          35
Bouhedma Nat''i61 Park                            GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
,-f - ,-  Parc National , e ohda SCAP/TALES DES GOUVERNORATS
)_  J   ,-    ~~~~Parc National  ubodieema   sFX  P
iJ >st   5.C4 #   /  Kerkenohls INATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALE DU PAYS
0Goafo sa                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5                             - rl  . W- g = FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
,---    I   " ? _   _-5 s            -- i-       OIt
34'   _''_         _                                   Gobes
(  ~ ~ Zeur   .'   ,,-.           *Gabes                         __________________Gabes_3_
g   s{eUr .-  /__  \____o,_SCt-  >Gobes  ,                ,0 2~~~~~~~~~~~9  5  5,0  75  10,0
\ ~~~~~~ /  >_rX k-_o-t   <       2 Dlcrbv3 ~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
\  __  ,./"hott el Jer,d \<reGlelil  >S
\      2C-=>                     te                     J° 
-   7 i,?  _@--         ModonJne Mee                 Mediterranean
-                 Jbil National Park  ,
33°                        Parc Nationale Jbg                                                                        33d
s\ * 8 s~~~~~~~~~~~~Tataoutne            v Z \ 
\  0/                                                       12-               1,3-
.32'                                                            /             32'  M0dr'            0. it
SPAIN>  /   32  S  MediterrJaneon Tun   E -
\                  ~~~~                                ~~/ Alger  Tuijgr e:-S.AT
\                _-           ~     ~    ~3/               jTUN151A  vo(n
'   ,/                                         . '> F4Tripoli
ALGERIA                                             LIBYA             -30-
31   This mpwas produced by the     \                                                  ALGERIA
Mop Design Unit of The World Bank                                        31                             LIBYA
The boundaries, colors, denominations                                        25O                                25
and anyother information shown on  *             I                            ,
thbs map do not imply, on the port of                                         \                       .'..
The World Bank Group, ony judgment             /                                \                   " I1  -
on the legalstatus of any territory, or
any endorsement or acceptance of  \         *-20-                                                     .?       .
such boundaries                                                                 M ALI -  AIi  /  NIGER    CHAD
B                                        MAL 10°1      j          CsA 10M
MARCH 2002









IMAGING
Report No.           23339   TUN
Type:      PAD



