                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001171



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF-21160 TF-51308)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.2 MILLION
                        (US$ 5.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                        FOR A

                PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                 August 25, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Maghreb Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 2009)

                  Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar, TND
                         TND 1.00 = US$ 0.71
                         US$ 1.00 = TND 1.4

                             FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1-December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAD     Association (formal) for Agricultural Development / Groupement de
        développement agricole
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CGF     Contrôle Général des Finances
CDP     Community Development Plan
GEO     Global Environmental Objective
GDEQV   General Directorate of Environment and Quality of Life / Direction
        Générale de l'Environnement et de la Qualité de Vie
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GDF     General Directorate of Forestry / Direction Générale des Forêts
GOT     Government of Tunisia
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IUCN    International Union for Conservation of Nature M&E Monitoring &
        Evaluation
MoA     Ministry of Agriculture / Ministère de l'Agriculture et des ressources
        hydrauliques
MoE     Ministry of Environment / Ministère de l'Environnement et du
        Développement Durable
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
PMP     Park Management Plan
PMU     Project Management Unit
UNDP    United Nations Development Program




                       Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                     Country Director: Mats Karlsson
                      Sector Manager: Luis Constantino
                 Project Team Leader: Ayat Soliman
                    ICR Team Leader Ayat Soliman
                                       REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                  Protected Areas Management Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................. 13
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 16
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 19
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 53
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 54
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 56
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 57
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 58
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 75
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 76
  MAP: IBRD 31835
A. Basic Information
                                                                          PROTECTED AREAS
Country:                Tunisia                 Project Name:             MANAGEMENT
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P048315                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-21160,TF-51308
ICR Date:               06/10/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TUNISIA
Original Total
                        USD 5.1M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 5.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C                       Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
 Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/22/2001     Effectiveness:             10/11/2002        10/11/2002
Appraisal:            02/25/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/27/2002     Mid-term Review:           11/06/2006        11/27/2006
                                     Closing:                   08/31/2008        02/28/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                    Satisfactory
                             Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                                   Moderately Satisfactory
                           Unsatisfactory       Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                 Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:               Unsatisfactory       Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     29                  20
Forestry                                                              61                  70
General education sector                                              10                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                          34                  60
Environmental policies and institutions                               33                  40
Export development and competitiveness                                33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                        Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:            Luis F. Constantino                  Petros Aklilu
Project Team Leader:       Ayat Soliman                         Shobha Shetty
ICR Team Leader:           Ayat Soliman
ICR Primary Author:        Jean-Marc Bisson
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The project's main development objective is improved management and protection of
selected national parks for the purposes of conserving biodiversity of global importance
and contributing to the overall improvement in welfare of local populations.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                 Biodiversity degradation is stopped or reversed and animal population is
Indicator 1 :
                 increased.
                                                                               ICHKEUL:
                                            ICHKEUL:                           Sirpaies cover:
                                            Sirpaies cover:                    increased by 80%
                 ICHKEUL:                   50%                                Ptamogeton cover:
                 Potamogeton population: Potamogeton                           60%
                 14%                        cover: 20%                         Freq. of geese
                 Scirpaies cover: 15%       Frequency of                       increased by 5
Value            Frequency of geese: 500 geese: +20%.                          times
(quantitative or BOUHEDMA:                  BOUHEDMA:                          BOUHEDMA:
Qualitative)     Population Dorcas (107), Dorcas (150);                        (i) gazelles dorcas
                 Mohr (25), Oryx (124). Mohr (40), Oryx                        (124), mohors (26),
                 Acacia density 17          (150).                             oryx (117),
                 trees/ha)                  Acacia density                     (ii) Acacia density:
                 JBIL: Gazelles: traces     (15%)                              23 trees/ ha,
                                            JBIL: Gazelles:                    increase of 35%.
                                            +15%                               JBIL: 7 gazelles
                                                                               sighted
Date achieved 08/01/2002                    08/01/2002                         02/28/2009
                 BouHedma fauna was affected by 3 years of consecutive drought. Final oryx
Comments
                 count includes translocation of 10 oryx to 3 other parks in 2007. At Jbil, animal
(incl. %
                 traces were used as proxy for a population count. The original target is estimated
achievement)
                 to be achieved.
                 Improved management of the three parks contributes to the improved welfare of
Indicator 2 :
                 the populations within and around the parks.
                 A. % population                                               A. Surrounding
Value            convinced of the                                              communities
                                            A=20%
(quantitative or economic interest of the 3                                    recognize the direct
                                            B=15%
Qualitative)     parks is insignificant.                                       and indirect
                 B. Money benefit                                              benefits of the
                captured by local                                            parks (10% in Y3;
                population at start of                                       20% in Y6).
                project: 0%                                                  B. 16% of Park
                                                                             budget (40% of
                                                                             civil eng budget)
                                                                             goes to services
                                                                             rendered by local
                                                                             communities.
Date achieved 08/01/2002                08/01/2002                           04/17/2009
Comments      The monetary benefits consisted mainly of salaries and other revenues paid to
(incl. %      local community for civil works, incl. rehabilitation of park and social
achievement) infrastructure. Gender disaggregation was not undertaken.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                           Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
                 Capacity of the administration and their partners, for biodiversity conservation
Indicator 1 :
                 and protected areas management, is improved
                                           At least 80% of
                                                                                Over 80% of the
                                           the annual work
                                                                                annual work
                                           programs are
                                                                                programs have been
                                           implemented every
                                                                                implemented every
                                           year. 100% of
                                                                                year. 100%
                 No annual programs for permanent staff
                                                                                permanent staff of
                 the 3 parks, limited      have received
Value                                                                           the 3 parks received
                 capacity and no training training to
(quantitative or                                                                managerial and
                 for permanent staff,      upgrade their
Qualitative)                                                                    technical training.
                 communities not involved skills. Results
                                                                                Results of research
                 in park activities.       from research used
                                                                                have been applied
                                           in mgmt plans,
                                                                                to park mgmt.
                                           SSEPN is used in
                                                                                SSPEN functioning,
                                           daily management
                                                                                yet link to planning
                                           of 3 parks from Y3
                                                                                needs support
                                           on.
Date achieved 08/01/2002                   08/01/2002                           02/28/2009
Comments
                 Planning, monitoring and budget control are considered adequate. Procurement is
(incl. %
                 done according to plan in 90% of cases.
achievement)
                 % of local communities who have benefitted from training are involved in a park
Indicator 2 :
                 management related activity
                                                                                Almost all GDA
Value            No community members                                           members are
(quantitative or involved in park          50%                                  involved in park
Qualitative)     management                                                     management
                                                                                activities
Date achieved 08/01/2002                      08/01/2002                          02/27/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 The 3 parks are better managed, suitably integrated in the rural economy, and
Indicator 3 :
                 contribute to local development
                                                                                  The participatory
                                              The participatory
                                                                                  process with the
                                              process with the
                                                                                  local councils is
                                              local councils and
                 Very little management                                           functioning
                                              populations, for
Value            planning is taking place                                         adequately and has
                                              the formulation
(quantitative or and is not carried out                                           been used to
                                              and
Qualitative)     through a participatory                                          produce three park
                                              implementation of
                 process                                                          management plans
                                              the park
                                                                                  and three
                                              management
                                                                                  community
                                              plans, is functional
                                                                                  development plans.
Date achieved 08/01/2002                      12/31/2006
Comments
                 . Also, the result of the various research works carried out in the 3 parks are
(incl. %
                 being incorporated by the park staff in the management plans.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Park management has influence on regional plans
                                                                                  Ichkeul: water,
                                              Three parks have
                                                                                  agric., animal
                                              influenced the
                                                                                  husbandry mgmt.
Value                                         regional plans for
                                                                                  Bou HedmaL water
(quantitative or insignificant                water, livestock,
                                                                                  and agriculture
Qualitative)                                  agriculture,
                                                                                  mgmt, school map,
                                              forestry and
                                                                                  high school
                                              tourism
                                                                                  construction
Date achieved 08/01/2002                      08/01/2002                          02/27/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : % implementation of the park action plans
                                                                                  Over 80% of annual
Value                                         At 50% in Year-3
                                                                                  work programs
(quantitative or 0%                           and 100% in Year-
                                                                                  implemented every
Qualitative)                                  6.
                                                                                  year.
Date achieved 08/01/2002                      08/01/2002                          02/27/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Reduction of illegal activities index between Y1 and Y6
                                                                   Ichkeul: Brac Ichkeul: in distinct
Value                                                              (na) Graz (2) decline
(quantitative or 0%                                                Circul(na) cut Bou Hedma: in
Qualitative)                                                       (2)            decline
                                                                   BouHedma: Jbil: reduction from
                                                              (na) (2) (na)    32 (2004) to 1
                                                              (2)              (2007)
                                                              Jbil: (2) (na)
                                                              (2) (2)
Date achieved 08/01/2002                    08/01/2002                         02/27/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Water management plans lead to expected results on the physio-chemical
Indicator 7 :
                 parameters of the waters of Lake Ichkeul
                                                                               Satisfactory water
Value
                                            distinct                           quality and
(quantitative or unsatisfactory
                                            improvement                        restoration of
Qualitative)
                                                                               critical vegetation
Date achieved 08/01/2002                    08/01/2002                         02/27/2009
Comments
                  Lake Ichkeul was removed from the list of World Heritage Sites in Danger at the
(incl. %
                 30th session of UNESCO World Heritage Committee in 2006.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Score cards for three parks general management indicate improved management
Value
                                             5% in Y3 and                      Improved by 5% in
(quantitative or not measured
                                            10% in Y6                          Y3 and 10% in Y5.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2002                    08/01/2002                         03/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 A position of one deputy conservators in charge of relations and communication
Indicator 9 :
                 created for each of the 3 parks.
Value                                                                          3 deputies
(quantitative or 0                           3                                 designated and are
Qualitative)                                                                   operational.
Date achieved 08/01/2002                    08/01/2002                         02/27/2009
Comments
                 The DPM role and mandate in terms of communication with the public remains
(incl. %
                 to be clarified.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : % of activities of the annual work programs entrusted with communities
Value                                       Ichkeul,
                                                                               At least 25% on
(quantitative or nil                        Bouhedma:
                                                                               average
Qualitative)                                15%Jbil: 10%
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11 : % population sensitive to key themes
Value                                                                          Ichkeul: 37%
(quantitative or negligible                  25% in each park                  BouHedma: 30%
Qualitative)                                                                   Jbil: 53%
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 12 : % of pupils having received a 70% score on a test on the park and its value
                                                                                 Degree of
                                                                                 awareness:
                                                                                 90% low (Y3), 0%
                                                                                 (Y6)
Value                                                                            10% average (Y3),
(quantitative or NA                          70%                                 9% (Y6)
Qualitative)                                                                     0% satisfactory
                                                                                 (Y3), 40% (Y6)
                                                                                 0% very
                                                                                 satisfactory (Y3),
                                                                                 51% (Y6)
Date achieved
Comments         This original indicator has been replaced by a qualitative survey of 100 pupils to
(incl. %         determine the degree of sensitization of pupils, justified by the lack of data
achievement) before the creation of the environmental clubs.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              GEO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     10/29/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     01/08/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.35
  3     05/07/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.35
  4     11/06/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.35
  5     05/12/2004          Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                       0.35
  6     11/23/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.47
                             Moderately                 Moderately
  7     04/27/2005                                                                          0.59
                           Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
  8     06/27/2005      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                  0.66
  9     03/02/2006      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                  0.88
 10     08/01/2006      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                  1.21
 11     03/20/2007      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                  2.05
 12     10/08/2007      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                  2.79
 13     05/19/2008      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                  3.75
 14     10/25/2008          Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                  4.53
 15     05/08/2009          Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                  5.06


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal


At appraisal, it was indicated that out of the 2 200 species of plants in Tunisia, some 150 were
considered rare, threatened or endemic. Many of these plants are valuable as a genetic resource;
mainly for food, forage and medicine. Unfortunately, there had been a decline in forest cover,
from 3.3 million hectares in the Roman period to less than one million hectares in 2002.
Furthermore, Tunisian fauna included 80 species of mammals, 362 species of birds and more
than 500 species of reptiles and fish. Several of the mammal species were endemic to North
Africa. But there was evidence of a substantial decline in the populations over the previous
century. Around 110 animal species were threatened, including all large mammals. Generally
speaking, the principal threat to biodiversity was (and still is) habitat degradation; mainly
because of overgrazing, fuelwood and fodder collection. This, in turn, had exacerbated erosion
and contributed to desertification.
Already in 2002, biodiversity conservation constituted an important element of the Government
strategy. Reportedly, there was a strong political commitment towards improving conservation
per se as well as its integration into the economic, social and cultural context. There was also a
growing realization that earlier protected areas management interventions had sometimes failed
because community participation was too limited. A participatory National Biodiversity Strategy
and Action Plan were therefore formulated and adopted by the Government in 1998. The
strategy's key priorities were to: (i) improve the biodiversity knowledge base, (ii) prevent the
erosion of the genetic resources, (iii) reinforce the management/protection of critical ecosystems,
(iv) integrate biodiversity conservation in relevant sectoral strategies, and (v) strengthen the
institutional/regulatory framework.
The present project was the first to give concrete content and initiate implementation of this
strategy. It was designed mainly to assist the Government in the formulation/implementation of
park management plans, with direct community participation; providing thereby a basis for
replicability in other protected areas. The capacity of the relevant Government structures ­ to
plan, implement and coordinate biodiversity conservation ­ would be strengthened, at the local
as well as national levels. Also, the project was meant to build on the momentum generated by
previous projects ­ such as the Second Forestry Development Project closed in 2001 ­ and to
link with ongoing national and donor-financed projects. The objective set for the project was
fully consistent with the Bank's CAS of the time.
Tunisia has ratified the following major international environmental conventions and
agreements : CITES (1974), UNESCO World Heritage (1974), Ramsar Convention (1979), Bonn
Convention (1986), Desertification Convention (1979), Berne Convention (1995) and the
Biological Diversity Convention (1993). In particular, the project was designed to support the
articles 6, 7, 8, 11 and 13 of the latter convention.



1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


                                                13
 The project's main development objective is improved management and protection of selected
national parks for the purposes of conserving biodiversity of global importance and contributing
to the overall improvement in welfare of local populations.

The GEO was to improve the management and protection of selected national parks (Ichkeul,
Bouhedma and Jbil) for the purposes of:
1. Conserving biodiversity of global importance. The key indicators for measuring the
   achievement of this goal were: (i) stabilization or improvement of the demographic status
   specific to each national park (vegetative cover/distribution, local animal/bird populations,
   etc.) ;
2. Contributing to the overall improvement in welfare of the local populations. The main key
   indicators for this goal were: (i) % of activities of the annual work program that are entrusted
   to local communities, (ii) the participatory process for the management plans and annual
   work programs, through the local councils for development and the project management
   team, is functional, (iii) number of tourism concessions in each of the three parks, (v) overall
   improvement in management effectiveness as defined by the IUCN scorecard; and (iii)
   creation of permanent deputy conservators in the 3 parks in charge of community and public
   relations.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original GEO has not been revised.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The project was to contribute to sustainable conservation management in 3 well-known national
parks, covering about 180 000 hectares and representing three different ecosystems with
biodiversity of regional/global importance (wetland, arid-mountain / pseudo savanna and desert,
respectively). The benefits were therefore expected to reach far and wide and generally be as
follows :
At the local level. The project would contribute to alleviate poverty among local populations
dependent on the resources of the protected areas; the majority of them deemed to be destitute.
This will be achieved mainly by supporting community development including the establishment
of social infrastructures, the promotion of income generating activities and the development of
ecotourism. There would be a positive gender impact since many of the off-farm income
generating activities (like handicraft) are being carried out by women who are also involved in
collecting fuelwood.
At the national level. The beneficiaries would include the staff of the General Directorate of
Forestry (GDF) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) as well as the staff of the General
Directorate of Environment and Quality of Life (GDE) of the Ministry of Environment (MoE),
whose institutional capacity to deal with biodiversity conservation will be strengthened. The
project would also raise the awareness of the public at large concerning biodiversity conservation
in general and the importance of protected areas in particular.



                                                14
At the global level. The project would establish linkages with biodiversity conservation
initiatives in neighboring countries. The conservation models and techniques developed would
be of great help for similarly critical Saharan and Mediterranean habitats.


1.5 Original Components

The description of the components, as given in the appraisal report, is as follows :
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (US$ 2.02 millions [with physical/price
contingencies]). This component is aimed at reinforcing the institutional capacity of the GDF and
GDE ­ at the national, regional and local levels ­ in sustainable protected areas management.
The sub-components are: (i) strengthening of the Project Management Unit (PMU), (ii) training
(on-site, of trainers, academic), (iii) carrying out technical and scientific studies, and (iv) setting
up of a scientific monitoring system for protected areas.
Component 2: Protected Areas Management (US$ 7.18 millions). This component is aimed at :
(i) managing/restoring the ecosystems in the three parks of Ichkeul, Bouhedma and Jbil, (ii)
formulating [with the local populations] community development plans compatible with
biodiversity conservation, and assisting in the development of ecotourism. Park management
plans would be formulated and carried out ; equipment/materials, training and infrastructure
facilities would be provided for the three parks. Measures would be taken, including the setting
up of resting areas (for regeneration), in order to reduce/eliminate the overexploitation of natural
resources, particularly those shared in common such as grazing lands. The management plans
would focus not only on the technical aspects but also on negotiations with communities for the
purpose of reducing human pressure on the park areas. Incentives for the communities to
participate would include the establishment of social infrastructures (electrification, rural water
supply, etc.) and the promotion of alternative income generating activities. Developing
ecotourism would include feasibility studies, construction of tourism infrastructures (parking,
recreation areas, etc.) and the training of specialized staff (mainly eco-guides).
Component 3: Public Awareness (US$ 0.68 million). This component is aimed at building public
support for biodiversity conservation at the local/park and regional/governorate levels.
Information/ sensitization campaigns would target mainly local governments, park visitors and
school children. This would be achieved through the use of mass media as well as
formal/informal education, and the establishment of linkages with NGOs, schools, tourism
agencies, etc. Flagship species/themes would be chosen for each park and community activities
carried out to develop grass-root awareness.


1.6 Revised Components

The original project components were not revised.




                                                  15
1.7 Other significant changes


The grant agreement was initially denominated in Special Drawing Rights (virtual currency used
by the International Monetary Fund) and converted in 2004 into US$. This conversion, plus the
gradual depreciation of the US$ in the following years, resulted in a reduction of the grant
amount equivalent to US$ 1.2 million when measured against the Tunisian Dinar. In addition,
the financing of some categories of expenditures was modified in 2008, to accommodate the
need for more civil works and equipment/materials than planned at appraisal. These additional
needs emerged from the Park Management Plans (PMP) and Community Development Plans
(CDP), which were formulated and implemented in close participation with the populations (see
later). The additional funds needed for these categories were met by the use of unallocated
amounts as well as savings under the Technical Assistance category. Finally, the grant's closing
date was extended by 7 months (from 08/31/08 to 02/28/09), to allow for the completion of
activities already committed.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Generally speaking, the project was well suited for an intended first phase of implementation of
the Government's National Biodiversity Strategy. Its GEO was fully consistent with the Bank's
CAS of the time. Also, the general description of the project components and sub-components
was adequate and relevant to the set GEO. The project design had two important innovative
features. First, it pioneered the introduction of participatory planning and management tools into
biodiversity conservation, and second, it included alternative livelihood activities as an important
element of sustainable natural resources management. These features are now being considered
for scaling-up in other parks in Tunisia. Overall, the project design can be considered ambitious
given its wide scope and multiple goals, particularly when compared to the limited institutional
capacities of the existing implementing agencies (even with project strengthening). It is the
ICR's view that the project design had two specific shortfalls which impacted on the
implementation later on. First, several of the impact and output indicators under the M&E
framework set at appraisal were not sufficiently defined, and therefore difficult to measure. With
no established baseline values; thereby exacerbating the problems encountered in the
monitoring/evaluation of the project. In particular, the indicators selected for assessing improved
welfare of the populations within and around the park were hard to measure objectively.
Second, the design did not pay adequate attention to readiness for implementation, particularly in
view of the limited capacity at the local level. Several activities to be carried out were not
formulated in sufficient details, thereby causing delays during project implementation ­ for
example: the definition/organization of the research activities, the setting up of the scientific
monitoring system for protected areas, and the process for elaborating the Park Management and
Community Development Plans. Finally, the price contingencies estimated at appraisal were
clearly insufficient (7% over six years). This explains partly the under-estimation found during
project implementation of several of the project costs.
Quality at entry is therefore rated moderately satisfactory.



                                                 16
2.2 Implementation


Overall, the project set out to achieve its stated objectives, and implemented the majority of the
planned activities with visible results in terms of the improvement in biodiversity conservation,
and the overall management of the three parks. One of the key factors affecting implementation
was the delays in start-up of the activities. The grant agreement was signed in July 2002 but the
bulk of the project activities started only in the second part of 2004. The two main reasons are :
(i) most of Year 2003 was devoted to putting into place the institutional setup (mainly national
steering committee, PMU and park staff) as well as preparing the bid documents and
conventions; and (ii) the procurement procedures were found to be numerous, complex and
relatively rigid. For instance, the PMU had to prepare 12 conventions with different research
institutions and science faculties, in addition to bidding documents for the carrying out ­ by
various consultancy firms, NGOs and consultants ­ of several project activities (for example) :
the formulation of 3 Park Management Plans (PMP) and 3 Community Development Plans
(CDP), and the preparation of information/sensitization campaigns for public awareness.
The problems encountered include: (i) the obligation for the procurement procedures to meet the
terms/conditions of both the Government and the Bank; (ii) delays in obtaining non-objections
from the Bank, (iii) several unsuccessful bids, and (iv) lack of knowledge at the regional/park
level about Bank procedures. For instance, the bids for the formulation of the PMPs and CDPs
were initially regrouped to simplify procedures, but had to be subsequently launched in separate
packages because the consultancy firms did not have sufficiently large capacities. Even then,
three attempts were necessary for finding a suitable candidate in the case of Bouhedma's PMP. It
must be pointed out however that the problems were much less acute for the MoE/GDE because
a full-time consultant was hired in Year 2005 for carrying out most of the activities planned
under the project component 3, and also due to the fact that the number of contracts to process
was limited. The situation was exacerbated by the considerable period of time (almost one year)
between the departure of the first Bank TTL and the nomination of the successor. Finally,
another constraining factor was the substantial cost inflation of several of the equipments and
materials provided during project implementation, which created difficulties in finding suitable
products.
The approach under project component 2 was to formulate and implement a comprehensive PMP
in each of the 3 parks, complemented by a CDP aimed at gaining the proactive support of the
local populations living within and in the vicinity of the parks. To this effect, the CDPs were to
be composed of motivating investments for the benefit of the populations, mainly in the form of
community development programs (essentially the construction/rehabilitation of social
infrastructures, the promotion of income generating activities and the provision of basic training).
Some of these investments were also meant to compensate for opportunity costs incurred by
these populations, following for instance the establishment of closed resting areas for vegetative
regeneration within the parks (consequently restricting livestock movements). Unfortunately,
mainly because of the procedural problems indicated previously, the formulation of the PMPs
and CDPs was finalized much later than planned: 2005/6 for Bouhedma, 2006/7 Ichkeul and
2008 Jbil. In the meantime, given the growing impatience of the populations ­ expectations
having been raised by the information campaigns already carried out ­ the PMU was compelled
to start carrying out in 2005 the most obvious investments included later in the CDPs. This
reversal in approach created initial confusion, although it helped in responding to most urgent


                                                17
needs and thereby gaining the confidence of the communities. Due to limited remaining time and
overall resource envelope, it was not possible to complete all of the activities under the PMPs
and CDPs, whose budgets and timeframe are much broader than that of the project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Two M&E systems were planned for different purposes: the first to monitor the physical status
of protected areas (scientific monitoring system for protected areas), and the second to
monitor/evaluate the project's realizations and impacts (project M&E system).
 (i) Concerning the scientific monitoring system, a specialized consultancy firm was contracted
in 2008 after several procurement delays, for the purpose of setting up the scientific monitoring
system. The base data on the three parks, including topographical maps and satellite images,
have been assembled and the system has been designed and installed at the GDF's Information
System for Forest planning in Tunis. Moreover, the necessary equipment and materials for the
three parks have been acquired and specialized training given (in Tunisia and abroad) to selected
staff at the central and regional/park levels. The set up of the system and the generation of
information and results for the purpose of tracking different aspects of biodiversity status was
completed by the end of the project, and have been reflected in the updating the relevant key
performance indicators. However, since, the three parks do not yet have internet connections,
supplying the system with timely data (particularly given the distances) ­ as well as its regular
use by the park staff ­ remains relatively weak.
(ii) Concerning the project M&E system, the system was fully set up, however it was fragmented
and did not realize its full potential as a dynamic management tool. The first two project
components were under the responsibility of the GDF whereas the third component was
implemented by the GDE. The necessary data were therefore collected separately and integrated
only when required for the production of progress reports. The monitoring of the project's
financial realizations and the progress in terms of the technical aspects of biodiversity
conservation were carried out in a satisfactory manner. On the other hand, some of project's
impacts, particularly with regard to the contribution to community welfare, were not being
monitored continuously and consistently. The relevant community surveys were only conducted
in the last two years of the project life. This shortcoming is mainly due to the limited capacity
and experience on the part of GDF with instituting similar M&E systems and utilizing them as a
live management tool.
Overall, the ICR found the main weakness to be related to monitoring the outcomes in terms of
the impacts on the welfare of the communities and their perception and level of awareness of the
value of the park. The number of indicators for these aspects proved to be too many and in some
cases difficult to measure, requiring strong baseline information and rigorously designed follow
up surveys. For this reason, as well as the fragmented institutional responsibilities, the evaluation
of this aspect of the project's realizations and impacts tends to rely more on partial evidence than
on full scientific analysis. Nevertheless, the information available is deemed sufficient to
demonstrate substantial positive project outcomes.




                                                 18
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial management generally was globally acceptable. The PMU prepared the financial
statements, covering commitments and disbursement by components, sub-components and
category and also by financing sources. Audits were conducted annually by CGF (Contrôle
Général des Finances), delivered to the Bank, and revealed no particular accounting issues.
Initial financial management shortfalls included delays in communication of financial
information from regional level (CRDA) to central level (PMU), delays in transmission of
Interim Financial Reports and audit reports. These were identified during the first supervision
missions and successfully rectified over the course of the project. The procurement management
issues faced during implementation have been outlined under section 2.2 above, and relate to the
limited knowledge at the regional and park levels with Bank procedures and the complications
resulting from the need to adhere to both Bank and GOT guidelines. These led to implementation
delays, but overall the procurement procedures during implementation were in line with Bank
guidelines and requirements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The continued operation of the park management activities fall under the responsibility of the
DGF, which will continue to manage the staff and assets established under the project. As such,
the institutional structures set ­up during implementation will continue to operate under the
jurisdiction of the relevant authorities. The key challenge will be to ascertain that adequate levels
of funding are allocated for long term operation and maintenance, as well as for the support of
the Associations for Agricultural Development (AADs) and environmental clubs created under
the project.

At the national level, the project was meant to be the first phase of implementation of the
Government's National Biodiversity Strategy. There is now a Tunisian Program in place and
aimed at establishing 9 new parks and 11 reserves, in addition to the existing 8 parks and 16
reserves. Hence, the aim of providing a replicable model under this project has been achieved.
When considering a scaled-up national park management structure, adequate running costs for
the three project parks as well as all the others remain a question. In particular, with the
limitation on revenue generating activities, such as tourism concessions, the reliance on
Government funding will continue in the near future. In this regard, refining the participatory
methodology for prioritizing investments introduced by the project becomes an important tool to
promote efficient resource allocation in a constrained budget environment. Finally, the MoE is in
the process of formulating a program for submission to the GEF, which would draw from the
lessons of the present project, with a focus on expanding the ecotourism potential.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

 Biodiversity conservation in general, and the establishment of protected areas in particular,
remain high priorities for Tunisia, in political as well as in economic terms. Indeed, the existence
of a Tunisian Program for new parks and reserves is a concrete evidence of this. Moreover, the


                                                 19
use of participatory approaches with populations is now a mandatory feature of all rural
development projects in Tunisia. The benefits of such approaches are well known and accepted
by most people involved ; in the public sector as well as with the private sector and consultancy
firms, at the national and local levels. Finally, the Government is keen to unlock the potentials of
ecotourism, which if properly managed would bring new economic opportunities and local jobs.
The project fits well within the Bank's evolving assistance strategy in Tunisia. When the project
was designed, it contributed to the 2000 Country Assistance Strategy objective of supporting
human development by consolidating long-term development, and addressed the management of
natural resources and community participation in an integrated manner. The project continues to
be relevant to the current CAS approved in June 2004, and the CAS Progress Report of 2007,
contributing to the outcome on improved competitiveness of agriculture and natural resources
while ensuring that social and environmental concerns are properly addressed.


3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives


Conserving biodiversity of global importance. All 3 project components contributed directly or
indirectly to conserving biodiversity (see annex 2 for details). Under project component 1, a
wealth of research results has been produced about the fauna and flora in the parks. This precious
information allows the staff to understand better the evolution of the specific biodiversity in each
park and to intervene more effectively for improving and protecting it. The interaction of the
several research institutes and science faculties undertaking the research has also created a new
dynamic and these entities are now more interested and competent to carry out similar works in
the future. Under project component 2 : (i) the necessary basic infrastructures are now in place in
each park (including fences/gates, resting areas and watch towers), (ii) significant works have
been carried out for the regeneration of key vegetative species and the
reintroduction/multiplication of rare animals, as evidenced by the surpassing of appraisal targets
on most of the related indicators, (iii) for all three parks, the participatory park management
plans (PMPs) and community-based development plans (CDPs) have been formulated and their
implementation initiated; and (iii) the staff has been reinforced, mainly with the provision of
additional eco-guards, transportation means, equipments/materials and training (covering park
management, participatory approaches and communication techniques). This reinforcement has
improved the staff's deployment capabilities and results in a better protection of the park areas
and their biodiversity. Under project component 3, the numerous information/sensitization
campaigns carried out and targeted at very diverse groups (from regional staff of the MoA and
MoE to the local authorities , park staff and neighboring communities), plus the rich audio-
visual support/documentation produced for the 3 parks as well as the creation of 14
environmental school clubs (with audio-visual equipment, training of selected teachers and
guided tours for pupils), has certainly raised the public's awareness about biodiversity in general
and protected areas in particular. Six formal Associations for Agricultural Development (AAD)
have also been created to serve as interface between the public administration and populations. It
should be stressed that, as will be indicated later, the AAD and school clubs created are still
fragile and will need further support to remain functional. On the other hand, although not
planned at appraisal, the MoE has almost completed the formulation of a national strategy in



                                                20
communication/sensitization about protected areas. A national workshop will be soon organized
with a view to validate the strategy and find donors to co-finance its implementation.
On balance, as an overall result of the implementation, biodiversity is now better conserved in
the 3 parks. The key indicators for measuring this achievement were based on the regeneration of
the vegetative cover and the repopulation of animal species. The evolution of these indicators at
project's completion was shown earlier in Section F. Flagship species/themes had been identified
for each park. For Ichkeul, water resources was the theme and the indicators demonstrate that
stands of potamogeton has been reestablished and the land coverage of sirpaies has increased by
80% (50% was the target at appraisal). The project was also instrumental in having the park
removed from the the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites in Danger. For Bouhedma, the
acacia ( tortilis) radiana was the species and their density per hectare has increased by 35% (no
measurable target was given). Moreover, the substantial growth of hoofed animals in the park
has allowed the transportation of addaxes to Jbil and of oryxes to the Dghoumes Park in Tozeur.
For Jbil, the sand gazelle (leptoceros) was the species and the target was a population increase of
15%. Although it was found impractical to quantify the population, three times as many traces of
animals were detected at project completion, plus 7 gazelles were sighted. In addition, the
establishment of resting areas has resulted in a noticeable vegetative regeneration and allowed
the reintroduction of rare animal species such as the sand gazelle and the red neck ostrich.
Contributing to the overall improvement in welfare of the local populations. Project component 2
contributed directly to this goal. The opportunities for work created by the
construction/rehabilitation of the park infrastructures (including for ecotourism), as well as the
other civil works carried out for better enriching/conserving biodiversity within the parks,
brought revenues to the populations. Moreover, the motivating investments in community
development (particularly rural roads and income generating activities such as bee keeping,
handicraft, etc.), certainly helped improve the living conditions. However, because of the lack of
a proper M&E system, including structured surveys of the beneficiaries, the specific benefits
(although certainly positive) are difficult to measure, particularly in the case of the income
generating activities for which the current financial situation is not well known. As already
indicated, the CDPs were formulated towards the end of the project and the 2 NGOs in charge of
realizing the community development investments, as part of the CDPs' implementation, were
contracted in 2008 only. Consequently, only part of the investments (already agreed with the
AADs) have been implemented.
The key indicators set at appraisal refer mainly to the communities' participation in the
formulation of the parks' annual work programs as well as in their implementation. It should be
noted that the three parks exhibit different characteristics in terms of the surrounding
communities and the opportunities/ threats they pose. BouHedma had the highest number of
surrounding communities, estimated at 320 households. Ichkeul's surrounding population is
mainly concentrated in small settlements at the southern foot of Mount Ichkeul and is estimated
at about 65 households and 320 people (2001). Finally, the communities at Jbil are the smallest,
with unofficial sources indicating that about 200 nomads pass through the vast area in search of
grazing. The project has concentrated its efforts in engaging the surrounding communities, with
salaries and other forms of remuneration paid to the populations representing 40% of the civil
works carried out for the construction/rehabilitation of the park and social infrastructures. The
revenues obtained by the populations from the parks' annual operations are limited, for now, to
the manual labor needed periodically and to incomes derived from some of the visitors' daily


                                                21
expenses. In addition, a total of 71 beneficiaries received small grants in support of apiculture,
camel breeding and weaving activities. Ecotourism was also expected to bring revenues to the
populations. Indeed, some tourist infrastructures were put into place in each park (eco-museums
rehabilitation at Ichkeul and construction at Jbli, panoramic tracks, signalization, documentation)
and specialized training was given to selected park staff (converting some eco-guards into eco-
guides). Furthermore, a pre-feasibility study on ecotourism development was realized for the 3
parks and 8 other protected areas. In conclusion, the project achievements towards welfare
improvement are positive and provide a good basis for long term collaborative engagement using
the established participatory planning and management tools. .

3.3 Efficiency

The benefits of most of the project investments are dedicated to public commons, so they are not
readily quantifiable. Also, cost recovery was not required except for the promotion of some of
the small scale income generating activities. Consequently, it was not appropriate to attempt a
calculation of the financial/economic rates of return. Nevertheless, the evidence from the
activities in each park demonstrates that the project has achieved concrete/positive results.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
In spite of the problems encountered during the early years of implementation, the project was
able to achieve its set targets and to generate important and significant outcomes. The twin goals
of conserving biodiversity and contributing to the improvement of the populations' welfare were
achieved. The project was able to demonstrate significant conservation results in terms of the key
flaura and fauna, as evidenced by the surpassing of appraisal targets on most of the related
indicators, and manifested by the global recognition through removal of the Ichkeul Park from
the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites in Danger (2006). A wealth of research results has
been produced about the fauna and flora in the parks, and strong collaborative partnerships
established with local research institutions. The management and planning capacity of the parks
has been upgraded, and the necessary basic infrastructures are now in place in each park. The
staff has been reinforced, leading to improved staff's deployment capabilities for a better
protection of the park areas and their biodiversity. Welfare of the communities has improved,
and the local social capital has been fostered, including through the establishment and
partnership with AAD's, NGOs and environmental clubs. Equally important, the project served
as pilot for the formulation of PMPs based on a participatory approach with the populations
involved. This experience and the learning by doing undertaken through this first such project
has had important national level impacts. These are demonstrated at several levels, including the
heightened awareness and attention to parks conservation and the increased number of officially
declared national parks and reserves in the country, the transformation in terms of community
perceptions of protected areas, the formulation of a strategy to enhance eco-tourism potential in
all parks, and discussions for new programs to improve and replicate the experience gained in
other protected areas. Finally, the project had important influence on the regional development
plans, resulting in added attention and support given to the park's ecological needs and enabling
infrastructure requirements (incl. transport and education), and to an increased awareness at the


                                                22
national level of the importance of the park systems in the country. The rating "Satisfactory" is
therefore deemed appropriate.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

While the primary objective of the project was the conservation of globally significant
biodiversity, the projects contribution to the livelihood of the local communities has also
demonstrated tangible benefits. The construction/rehabilitation of social infrastructures as well as
the promotion of income generating activities resulted in concrete improvements in the living
conditions of the local populations, the majority of which were said at appraisal to be destitute.
In particular, women are benefiting since they are directly involved in several of the income
generating activities, for example handicraft, carpet weaving and bee keeping. Furthermore, the
work carried out in the context of the formulation of the 3 CDPs was deemed to have a positive
impact on the social development of the beneficiaries, in particular because it offered them an
opportunity to organize and discuss their needs and priorities. Finally, the establishment of the
AADs assisted in building local social capital and an opportunity for longer-term collaboration
among the communities and with potential financing bodies to sustain the efforts started in the
development of income generating activities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

One of the specific aims of the project has been to increase local capacity of the administration
(forestry, environment, tourism) and their partners (scientific community and local population)
for biodiversity conservation, and towards that end the project has achieved the following
concrete levels of institutional strengthening: (i) a better management structure in the three parks,
by providing the minimum essential tools and staffing, targeted training of park management and
rangers, setting up the systems for monitoring and follow up, (ii) initiation of partnerships with
the scientific community for collaboration and integration of research results into management
decisions, (iii) institutionalizing the mechanisms of involvement of the communities in park
management and follow up. The ICR views these as important factors contributing to a change in
the way park management is conducted in the three target parks as well as other parks in the
future. However, there have been some limitations faced during implementation; in terms of
strengthening coordination mechanisms across relevant sectors, which has continued to be a
challenge during implementation and required higher level political support. In particular, the
partnership with tourism to enable the implementation of effective eco-tourism programs could
have been strengthened. Also, the limited utilization of the M&E system as a dynamic
management tool between the center and the local level has deprived the local park staff of an
important mechanism for demonstrating results and linking them to central funding allocations.
All in all, given the scope and funds of the project, these activities should be seen as a key first
step and pilot demonstration towards improved park management at the national level. The
limited resources provided by the project (two vehicles and some computer equipment for the
PMU; 2 vehicles, 3 pickup trucks, office and computer equipments/materials, plus 8 additional



                                                   23
eco-guards, for the 3 parks) should be considered as a bare minimum given the role and
responsibilities attributed to the park staff, and the vast geographic expanse of each of these
parks.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

There are several encouraging signs that the project's activities and outcomes are generating
secondary effects: (i) the Ministry of Equipment has paved rural roads leading to the Bouhedma
park and intends to pave some others constructed with the project, (ii) the Ministry of Transport
is running buses on roads adjacent to the parks, and (iii) the Ministry of Environment and the
Ministry of Tourism intend to build bungalows in the vicinity of the Bouhedma park.
Furthermore, the MoE indicated that, in collaboration with German and Spanish aid agencies, it
initiated a wide ranging program aimed at promoting environmental education, based on the
experience of the project. Also, another program is being formulated for submission to the GEF
and which would draw from the lessons of the present project. Concerning ecotourism, it is also
worth signaling that the MoE is carrying out a national program aimed at capitalizing the
existing natural resources; detailed studies have already been produced for a Sahara circuit and
the oasis. Finally, the NGO involved with the CDP's implementation in Ichkeul has found other
sources of financing from Spain, UNDP and also a Tunisian bank dealing with microcrédit
(Banque Tunisienne de Solidarité). It therefore intends to continue providing support to the AAD
put into place under the project.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

A beneficiary survey is not required for a core ICR. But a short socio-economic evaluation was
carried out by the client in February 2009. The two main conclusions were that : (i) there is now
a greater interest on the part of the populations within and in the vicinity of the 3 parks, reflected,
among other things, by a reduction in illicit wood extractions, and (ii) the project had a definite
positive impact, albeit limited, on the living conditions of the populations; mainly through the
jobs/earnings created by carrying out civil works, the rural roads constructed/rehabilitated and
some daily labor for maintenance in the parks.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The project has achieved solid outcomes that have enhanced the local capacity to conserve
biodiversity in the three target parks. Despite the encouraging signs already noted, the
sustainability of the project's outcomes is not without some risk, albeit moderate. The new
infrastructures and the reinforced staff in the three parks necessitate adequate financing for their
efficient maintenance and operation; the annual (regular) budgets provided so far by the MoA are
limited and may not be sufficient in the future. Financing should be found for the remaining
activities under the PMPs and CDPs to be carried out. For example, it will be necessary to carry
out dredging operations at the mouth of the Lake Ichkeul; a failure to do so could compromise
the ecosystem in the park. Some encouraging signs of leveraging additional funding were seen in
the case of the Ichkeul AAD, and this should be encouraged and replicated Also, the


                                                  24
populations' support for sustainable park management necessitates the finalization of the CDP
activities;. The 6 AADs and 14 environmental clubs are still fragile and need further support. In
particular, now that the project is closed, the AADs must carry out new productive activities in
order to stay fully functional. It must be pointed out however that the Government has the means
to finance some of these operations and that there are already discussions with donors including
the World Bank concerning possible follow-up operations to the present project. Finally, an
important factor contributing to sustainability would be an enhanced ability for these parks to
generate and retain local revenues, including through the finalization and implementation of the
national eco-tourism strategy, of which a draft is currently discussed by the Government.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As previously discussed, the project was well suited for a first phase of the Government's
National Biodiversity Strategy. The general description of the project components and sub-
components was adequate and relevant to the GEO. However, the project design was somewhat
ambitious given its wide scope and multiple goals, particularly when compared to the limited
institutional capacities of the existing implementing agencies. In particular, the number of impact
and output indicators set at appraisal was too high to efficiently monitor in a consistent manner,
particularly in a project of this size, and some were vague and therefore difficult to measure.
Moreover, insufficient attention was given to ensuring readiness for implementation by the time
of project effectiveness. The limited focus in design on the institutional/organizational aspects
given that more than one implementing agencies are involved, proved to be the main bottlenecks
facing implementation in the first couple of years. This resulted in some of the activities to be
carried out not being formulated in sufficient details, thereby creating some confusion/delay
during project implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Bank supervision missions were staffed with specialists covering the main subject matters, who
provided regular guidance and support to the client during implementation. The Bank
supervision teams were proactive in addressing the funding shortfalls, and supporting the client
in reallocation of funds to meet the priority needs. Also, the missions raised consistently and
continuously the main issues as they emerged ­ for instance: the shortcomings in the general
management of the project, the absence of a comprehensive and fully functional M&E system,
the difficulties with the procurement procedures, the delays in the production of the progress
report as well as their shortcomings in content. Often, matrices were produced showing the
situation concerning the main outstanding issues and proposing solutions. However, the missions
did not succeed in improving markedly the situation, and it did not always reflect on an adequate


                                                  25
rating implementation progress during the early period of the project which witnessed significant
delays.

Over the life of the project, the frequency of supervision missions was less than every six months
on average. Interestingly, it is indicated in the aide-mémoire dated November 2003 that the
Government requested more frequent Bank missions. A stronger procurement involvement
would have been merited, given the fact that procurement issues were a recurrent problem. A
considerable period of time (almost one year) lapsed between the departure of the first TTL and
the nomination of the successor. The borrower also noted recurring delays in communicating
procurement non-objections. Indeed, the need was raised by commentators in some of the ISRs
for closer supervision of the project and with more resources, including better support in the field
of procurement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

While there has been significant technical guidance and support to the client during
implementation, which has contributed to the overall successful project outcome, an overall
moderately unsatisfactory rating is deemed appropriate due to the shortfalls in certain design
aspects at entry in addition to the above mentioned inconsistencies in supervision over the life of
the project. .


5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government is lauded for embracing the new participatory park management approach and
integrating it into its national biodiversity strategy. Central ministries provided regular
supervision and guidance to the implementing agencies throughout the project life, and
intervened to address bottlenecks as they occur. Over the life of the project, the government has
also demonstrated continued commitment and increased emphasis on biodiversity conservation,
as demonstrated by the declaration of 9 additional national parks, the formulation of the national
ecotourism strategy, and supporting activities to enhance awareness at all levels of the
importance of integrating biodiversity conservation into local development planning. Ideally, the
Government could have reached out to engage the Ministry of Tourism in supporting the
implementation of the ecotourism concessions, however given the need to first have the required
park infrastructure in place and the limited remaining time under the project, this is now
envisaged to be undertaken under a new proposed project encompassing a network of parks.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The grant agreement was signed in July 2002, the launching seminar was held only in December
2002 and the PMU created in March 2003. As already indicated, the bulk of the project activities
started only in the second part of 2004 because of the difficulties with the procurement
procedures. The PMU was staffed with the personnel recommended at appraisal but none of


                                                26
them (mainly the national coordinator and his assistant, plus 2 technical coordinators) were
working full-time, which explains partly the delayed project start. Furthermore, project
components 1 and 2 were implemented by the MoA whereas project component 3 was the
responsibility of the MoE. The tendency to compartmentalize activities between the two
ministries was found to be a real obstacle to a truly integrated management of the project as well
as to the setting up of a comprehensive M&E system (even on an ad hoc basis with Excel sheets).
Fortunately, these weaknesses were partly compensated by the admirable dedication of most of
the people involved in project implementation, in particular the two technical coordinators at the
central level and the conservators of the three parks, and the support and oversight from the
central Government.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

On a whole, the performance of the Borrower is deemed moderately satisfactory. While the
project was a pioneering pilot, which managed during the latter years to turn around its
performance and meet, and in some instances surpass, its set objectives, the initial delays and
limitations in coordination among the two implementing agencies reduced the opportunity to
fully harness the lessons and benefits from the newly introduced park management tools beyond
their first round of formulation and implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

Coupling park management activities with local partnerships and awareness raising
programs has a strong positive impact on improving community perceptions. The project
demonstrated that the partnerships with schools, research institutions, media and local private
sector helped solidify the collaborative spirit towards nature conservation objectives in each of
the regions, improved the understanding and positive perceptions of the local people and
significantly reduced the number of illegal activities. Among the three parks, Jbil proved to be
more challenging in this aspect given the small number of communities, many of which are not
settled. In future, a dedicated awareness strategy based on the specific characteristics of each
park is merited.
Fostering local partnerships for knowledge generation of the existing biodiversity in a park
enhances its management capacity. Rather than mobilizing a large scale technical assistance,
the PMU has contracted several research institutes, science faculties and consultants to carry out
small-scale analytical works on very specific subject matters. This approach showed that a very
rich and useful information base could be obtained at a lower cost than with classical technical
assistance, and engages local institutions for more sustainable partnership relations
Phasing of park management programs is advised to establish strong institutional,
participatory and infrastructure foundations before expanding to more ambitious goals of
eco-tourism development. It is important to manage expectations about what can be achieved in
a first phase of a participatory natural resources management project. The project required
significant time and resources to set up the participatory planning methodology, with a strong
element of learning by doing as it went forward. Also, there was a need to bring the parks to a
level where the minimum infrastructure required for receiving increased visitor numbers are in
place. These are prerequisites to the launch of successful eco-tourism activities, which require


                                               27
more sophisticated institutional collaboration structures across different sectors and can be
envisaged in a follow-on phase.
Integrating tools to prioritize allocation of investments can be helpful to promote efficiency
in a resource constrained environment. The project served as pilot for the formulation of
PMPs on the basis of a participatory approach with the populations involved. The experience
was very enriching for all concerned and deserves to be improved and replicated in other
protected areas. In the face of budget limitations, it would be useful to include a threat analysis
when elaborating the PMPs so as to focus on the interventions that will mitigate against
identified threats to the ecosystem. Also, informing the communities of the available budget
when elaborating the CDPs avoids long wish lists and forces a prioritization towards most urgent
needs.
Readiness for implementation is key to effective start up; participatory planning needs to
be started at the preparatory phase. To allow for effective start-up upon effectiveness, the
following items are critical: (i) to put into place the necessary institutional setup (steering
committee, PMU, etc.) and (ii) to advance insofar as possible the required procurement
procedures (preparation of bid documents, conventions and other agreements), and (iii) given the
importance in this project of the participatory planning process, it is important to elaborate with
the communities during preparation at least the set of activities for the first year to be able to be
address priority needs at the onset of implementation start up
In setting up results-oriented M&E systems that serve as dynamic management tools,
baseline information, resource allocation and community involvement are critical. To go
beyond collecting data on progress indicators for the purposes of external reporting and make
them an integral input into decision making, the following elements are essential: (i) define
beforehand the baseline situation to give management the incentive to monitor improvement, (ii)
set a small number of output and impact indicators that are clear and easily measurable, and
within the technical/ financial reach of all users, and (iii) select a small number of indicators that
can be monitored by community representatives to create a feedback system from the
beneficiaries to the decision makers.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The full summary of the Borrower's completion report is included in Annex 7.

The Borrower's report highlights the achievements of the project, and details the resulting
impacts under the following categories:
   - An improvement in the conservation of biodiversity in the three parks.
   - An improvement in the living conditions of the local population
   - An enhancement in the capacity of park management
   - An integration of the park management in local development in the three areas
   - A solidification of partnerships with scientific institutions and local communities in park
       management
   - An enhancement in the capacity of monitoring of protected areas in Tunisia




                                                 28
In terms of lessons gained and future perspectives, the Borrower emphasizes that the dynamic
unleashed by this project should not be lost. The experience gained under PGAP should be
extended to other parks, and the partnership and participatory process should be further pursued.
On the other hand, the scientific research in other protected areas should be intensified, building
on the lessons and experiences gained under this project. Finally, the socio-economic aspects in
research need to be strengthened.


(b) Cofinanciers


None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




None

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                              Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
            Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                        (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                 millions)
INSTITUTIONAL
                                               1.81                  1.94
STRENGTHENING
PROTECTED AREAS
                                               6.39                  6.91
MANAGEMENT
PUBLIC AWARENESS                               0.60                  0.66

               Total Baseline Cost            8.80
Physical Contingencies                          0.42
Price Contingencies                             0.66
                Total Project Costs             9.88
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00
         Total Financing Required                                    9.51


(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of                                   Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                Estimate       Estimate
                                           Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                         (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                     4.24           4.22          99.5%


                                                  29
Local Communities                                0.16   0.026   16.3%
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                5.33    5.11   95.9%
Foreign Multilateral Institutions (French
                                                 0.15   0.15    100%
GEF)




                                            30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Protected Areas Management Project is the first major initiative to improve national parks
management in Tunisia. This is the first World Bank GEF operation in this area, and is
considered by the Government of Tunisia as a pilot project.
1. Component 1 : Institutional strengthening
With an initial cost of 2.02 million Euros, the component objective was to build the institutional
capacity of the Directorate General for Forestry at the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources (Direction Générale des Forêts du Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources
Hydrauliques --DGF/MARH) and the Directorate General for the Environment and Quality of
Life of the Ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Development (Direction Générale de
l'Environnement et de la Qualité de Vie du Ministère de l'Environnement et du Développement
Durable -DGEQV/MEDD), with regard to sustainable management of protected areas. This
component focuses on the following areas:
1.1 Support to the Project Management Unit (PMU);
1.2 Training (3 types): in-service-training, training of trainers, and certificate courses;
1.3 Technical and scientific studies;
1.4 Establishment of a National Parks Scientific Monitoring System (Suivi Scientifique des Parcs
    Nationaux -SSSPN).
The training program was designed with a strong regional emphasis, targeting parks management
personnel, local administrations at the level of the Regional Commissariats for Agricultural
Development (Commissariats Régionaux de Développement Agricole -CRDA), and for other
potential partners (including the private sector and NGOS). Particular emphasis was given to
participatory approaches regarding the management of protected areas. Training was also
planned for DGF and DGQV staff at the central level.
1.1 Support to PIU
Expectations: The project aimed at strengthening PIU (within the DGF) monitoring and
supervision capabilities through technical assistance. This included the recruitment of
consultants specialized in monitoring and evaluation, and the acquisition of a software for
financial management, as well as of a vehicle, office automation equipments and VHF radios.
This sub-component also included the support for a mid-term review during the third year of
project implementation.
Achievements: The establishment of PIU was performed in 2003. Employees working under
contract have not been recruited because of a defective candidate selection procedure. Technical
assistance to PIU for monitoring and supervision was not provided, but PIU technical capacity
was strengthened through the appointment of three engineers in 2003/04. DGFIOP provided
technical assistance in the areas of accounting and reporting during project inception, for DGF to
acquire the necessary expertise in project financial management. This directorate has already
gained substantial experience through projects like PISEAU and PISA.
At the regional level, three park keepers were targeted by the project, but only four of them were
really involved; this is justified by the special situation of Bouhedma Park which belongs to the
CRDA of Sidi Bouzid and Gafsa. A deputy park keeper was officially designated for each park,


                                               31
except for the Gafsa section of Bouhedma Park (covering 1/3 of the total park area) who was
hired in a part-time capacity. Out of twenty four environmental protection guards (écogardes)
anticipated in the beginning of the project, only four were recruited, two for Jbil and two for
Ichkeul. Two all-terrain vehicles instead of one initially planned were bought: one for DGF and
another for DGEQV. The office automation equipment has not been acquired, and UGP got that
equipment through other programs. Computer equipment has been provided to PIU, and VHF
radios were supplied only at the regional level.
The final phase of the consultants' recruitment process for project appraisal has been carried as
initially planned. The acquisition of financial management software has not been carried out.
PIU has used the software which has already been employed in the 2nd Forestry Development
Project (PDF) financed by the World Bank. Equipment and computer software have been
acquired for SIG. Although there has been a delay in the start of the project of about 2 years,
while the acquisition of equipment and material needed for project implementation was carried
out. This activity benefited from experiences that the implementing agencies gathered from
several previous projects.


1.2 Training (in-service-training, training of trainers, and training leading to formal
    certification)
Expectations: Training programs were intended for employees in charge of the parks day-to-day
management as well as for the staff of the concerned Ministries and their partners involved in the
parks administration. This sub-component was considered essential to strengthening project
implementation capacity. Indeed, the emphasis on the participatory approach for this project
implied that the DGF staff acquires new skills. The training of individuals that are not part of the
concerned administration (from local associations, tour operators, etc.) but closely involved in
the management of the country's protected areas has also been envisaged. There are about one
hundred of these individuals. A training consultant was supposed to be hired to, among others,
identify domestic and international trainers needed to implement the proposed training program.
Training included: (I) training on the job comprising five modules: management of a GEF/World
Bank project, conservation management, environmental education, improvement of public
awareness regarding the importance of the environment, biological diversity centered on key
species. The themes identified in each park include: white gazelle for Jbil, Acacia tortilis subsp.
raddiana for Bouhedma and water resources management for Ichkeul); (ii) training of trainers
with the formation of a group of five students who specialize in biodiversity management and
conservation that would take more focused 13 weeks-long training courses abroad and in
Tunisia; (iii) training leading to formal certification provided in order to fill the lack of
specialists in the field of biological diversity conservation and management. Four scholarships
would be provided in Mediterranean biology, ecosystems flora and fauna, biodiversity in Tunisia,
and community socioeconomic development.
Achievements: Three types of training were included in the project:
In-service-training for conservation technicians and environmental protection guards from the
three parks concerned by the project and other parks in various regions, including management
of wildlife, and use of participatory approaches and communication techniques with regard to the
environment. In-service-training was also provided regarding GEF project management (6



                                                32
individuals trained in Sénégal), national parks management (two study tours of 20 days in Kenya
for 15 district heads, 15 park keepers and 20 PIU members (hunting wardens and forest
technicians), avian fauna management (20 environmental protection guards) and information for
the general public (20 environmental protection guards). Four engineers have also participated in
the 26th international conference on ESRI products use held in California (USA). Twenty (20)
environmental protection guards and ten (10) park keepers were trained in avian fauna
management, and ten (10) environmental protection guards in public reception. In 2008, training
in herpetofauna and mammal population management has been provided to ten (10) park keepers
and twenty (20) environmental protection guards, as well as in ornithology and GIS to
technicians from 3 parks. In February 2009, a study tour in Spain on the theme of "management
and investment in protected areas" has been organized for 5 technicians (4 from DGF and 1 from
DGEQV).
It should be noted that In-service-training has also been offered to individuals outside
government agencies. Indeed, in 2007, training in community development has been provided in
Tabarka, in collaboration with the NGO Appell, for twelve (12) GDA members. Members of the
three (3) GDA parks have also received training. In addition, in 2006, twenty (20) members of
local communities have also benefited from training in the Chaambi NP on how "To make the
most of the environment by developing local activities".

(i) Training of trainers: this training program was scheduled in conjunction with the research
program and contributed to the preparation of 28 master's degrees and 2 PhD dissertations. The
program dealt with ecology and the functioning of natural ecosystems in protected areas. A
similar training was provided for a DGF executive, during a 2-month period in France, in 2006.
(ii) Training leading to formal certification: PGAP allowed the preparation of several scientific
works leading to formal certification. These are 6 PhD dissertations, 24 master's degrees and 4
research projects for leaving certificates (Projets de fin d'études -PFE). This is a first in Tunisia,
which, thanks to the project, can benefit from specialists in fauna and flora who can contribute to
the development of protected areas.

1.3 Technical and scientific studies
Expectations: The project supported four basic studies common to the three parks in the
following areas: (I) monitoring of the parks vegetation dynamics and establishment of
phytoecological maps; (ii) reptile population inventory and monitoring, (iii) ornithological
population inventory and monitoring, and (IV) mammals inventory and monitoring.

Moreover, this sub-component was designed to support specific research studies in each park.
For Ichkeul, the project supports research regarding a mathematical model for lake water
resources management. The long-term viability of the lake depends entirely on the execution of a
well conceived and scientifically proven plan, in order to release water in the lake taking into
account the existing dams (old and new) located upstream of the lake. The mathematical model
developed in 1995 by BCEOM, a German research entity, needs to be updated and improved by
taking into account current physical realities and needs, and be calibrated (with experimental
water releases) in order to become a genuine management tool.



                                                 33
The project will support this exercise of research of an appropriate model so that the Directorate
for dams and large-scale works (Direction des barrages et des grands travaux hydrauliques ­
DGBGTH) within MARH benefits from a valid protocol (based on solid tested scientific data),
in order to integrate the lake ecological requirements in the Master Plan for North Water (Plan
directeur de l'eau du nord). The project will support research activities on the lake's biological
and physical parameters to strengthen ANPE capacity in its monitoring scientific activities.

For Bouhedma, the project recommends undertaking two research studies, on the ecology and
dynamics of Acacia tortilis subsp. Raddiana, and on the ecology of parasitic insects that prey on
Acacia. For Jbil, the research studies will focus on the dunes gazelle's biology and ecology, and
the Houbara bustard behavior.

Achievements: In order to carry out this sub-component, 12 research agreements were signed by
DGF with research, higher education, and management organizations to perform research. These
agreements aim at contributing to ensure the sustainability of Parks biodiversity, improve
management and monitoring tools of the protected areas in Tunisia through the development of
study techniques and appropriate scientific inventories, and define an adapted protocol for
natural environments scientific monitoring. These agreements include 28 research actions spread
between various research institutions: INRGREF (4), IRA Médenine (4), ANPE (3), SSNT-FS
Tunis (5), ASTMer-FS Tunis (8), ATPNE-FS Sfax (3), INAT (1) and ENMV-Sidi Thabet (1).

Four (4) research actions are common to the three parks; the remaining ones are specific to each
park: 8 for Ichkeul, 8 for Bouhedma and 7 for Jbil. Regarding the various research themes, 3
themes deal with aspects related to water in Ichkeul Park, 7 themes with the study of vegetation,
and 18 themes with the study of fauna. Two research actions were not carried out, and the
conventions signed with the association Friends of the Birds and with ENMV - Sidi Thabet, were
cancelled. These cancellations are explained by the delay accumulated by signatory
organizations.

The research actions carried out within the framework of the project have delivered products in
the form of activity reports (annual), specific reports, guides, and fact sheets. A seminar was
organized as part of the project, during which PGAP results were presented (November 2008).
The quantity of results obtained within this sub-component is a very important element.

With regard to research common to the 3 parks, a monitoring of the vegetation dynamics for the
3 parks was carried out and phytoecological maps developed, which allowed knowing in a much
clearer way than before the implementation of this project, the nature of the parks constituent
units and the evolution of covers. In addition, plant groupings were identified and charted
according to the type of soil and geomorphology of the area. Moreover, species on danger of
disappearance have been the object of specific studies (census, multiplication techniques). In
addition, reptiles and mammals population precise inventories and monitoring as well as an
inventory of terrestrial invertebrates were developed in the 3 parks. For research specific to each
park, they can be summarized as follows:



                                                34
For Ichkeul National park, a study has been conducted in order to actualize the mathematical
models and adaptat them to the current computerized information systems. Furthermore, the
actualization of the Ichkeul entry parameters has also been done. These actions made it possible
to accurately assess the contributions of the water released from the dams, which represented
more than 50% of the total volume of the lake water. The results of the model application show
on the one hand that forecasts are relevant, since the water and salinity levels planned for
January 2008 are in conformity with the values recorded on the ground, and on the other hand
that if we are dealing with an average year, salinity should be lower than 10 g/l; which should
allow herbaria of potamots to remain in the lake. The model will continue to function after the
end of the project.

A support has also been provided for the monitoring of scientific activities related to the
biological and physicochemical parameters of the Ichkeul lagoon-lacustrine (laguno-lacustre)
system, where it has been noticed that the lake water salinity level has been lowering by 7 g/l
during the months of April and May 2008 (recorded for the fifth consecutive year). It should be
noted here that several other factors, not all linked to the project, contributed to these results.
These include in particular the startup operation of the lock. It is however certain that the project
played a catalyst role in the re-establishment of normal hydrological conditions in the park.
A study of the Ichkeul PN entomofauna biodiversity has shown that there are 145 species
distributed in 13 orders with a clear predominance of Coleopters (35% of the species), 5 aquatic
species (new for Tunisia), and an Odonate species, new for North of Africa. The parasitic
pathology study of Ichkeul National Park buffaloes made it possible to identify parasitic agents
found in these animals, and to better determine the infestation level. The most outstanding
conclusion is the absence of fasciola gigantea, a highly pathogenic parasite, particularly for
young animals. Infestation by nematodes and protozoa is more frequent, though of low intensity,
and could justify pest-control spraying with low cost molecules. Lastly, the presence of ticks on
these animals and in the grazing areas constitutes a long-term risk and a more attentive
monitoring of these parasites taking into account their vector role as disease-causing agents is
needed.

An analysis of the Ichkeul water buffaloes population genetic variability was carried out showing
that allelic diversity and heterozygosity are low and even very low by comparison to other
European populations of buffaloes (using the same parameters). This is probably due to a certain
degree of consanguinity. Currently, the obvious effect is a detrimental genetic depression.
Bouhedma National park: a research on the ecology and dynamics of Acacia tortilis subsp.
raddiana (the key species of the park) concluded that the evolution of this species stand shows
that the number of Acacia plants increases regularly every year, which indicates that there is
natural regeneration and that efforts are made locally in this area. A. tortilis subsp. raddiana
morphological variability has been displayed prominently in the park. The species phonological
cycle was analyzed and important parameters for regeneration were identified. Acacia tortilis
subsp. raddiana germinative behavior, with respect to osmotic and saline stress, showed that this
species prefers high temperature to germinate, that the seeds are characterized by a tegumentary
inhibition, and that it is very resistant to saline stress since it continues to germinate even with
high NaCl concentrations (15 to 22 g/l).


                                                 35
The karyological study of Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana has shown that there are two levels of
ploïdy in the case of this species. The isoenzymatical characterization of Acacia tortilis subsp.
raddiana has given prominence to a polymorphism rate of 45%. This shows that the studied
population is in best condition when genetic diversity is maintained, and has a tendency toward a
stable equilibrium of genotypical distribution.

The study of population distribution and overlapping with regard to Acacia tortilis subsp.
raddiana has shown that there is an increase in density going from mountains to plains. The
conservation of these stands with such a density allows the maintenance of the species and the
reconstitution of the entire ecosystem specific to this species.

The study of Acacia tortilis subsp raddiana fructification has shown that its average rate of seed
production is very low, and that the average rate of seeds attacked by beetles by tree is high
(64%). Altitude does not seem to have a significant effect on the quality and quantity of
produced seeds. On the other hand, the production of seeds varies significantly in the Park
protected area.

Research undertaken to estimate the position of Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana within the
Bouhedma agro-forestry system shows that the presence or the absence of the Acacia tree in
cereal fields does not have a notable effect on cereal production. On the other hand, Acacia
tortilis subsp. raddiana has a significant effect on the herbaceous layer, attested by an increase in
the density, cover, as well as biomass produced under canopy. Consequently, it is advised to
preserve the trees belonging to this protected species in the areas where cereal cultivation is
practiced.

The study of Oryx and Addax energy needs, and of the pastoral potentialities of Bouhedma
National Park, made it possible to optimize the feeding of these two antelope species that were
introduced, and to evaluate pastoral production and its seasonal availability. The impact of the
availability of pastoral resources within the Park with regard to meeting antelopes, oryx and
addaxes theoretical food needs has been estimated, and the feeding balance and the holding
capacity determined.

The study of the ecology of parasitic insects found in the pods of Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana
in Bouhedma, has shown that this species seeds are attacked by two types of bruchids whose
biological cycle was studied and the rate of seeds infestation assessed. The observation of the
impact of infestations on seeds germination showed that no treated infested seed has germinated,
whereas the visually healthy seeds have shown variable rates of germination according to time
and to the type of treatment used. The natural enemies (parasites) of these bruchids were
identified and the rate of seeds infestation by these parasites seems to be relatively low.

The study of the park avifauna diversity has shown that it shelters a diversified, original and rich
avifauna. 127 species, with different phenologies and ecological requirements. They are
sedentary species related to the open Tunisian steppe in the south, and species of migratory


                                                 36
transient and wintering birds with very varied ecological requirements. This study showed in
particular that the ecology of the fulvous babbler in the park depends on the areas and the size of
the species groups. The fulvous babbler seems to take into account primarily acacias density,
height and foliar, to establish its territory as a group. Old acacias seem to be important for this
bird.

The Mhorr gazelle ecology, adaptation to the environment and genetic characterization were
analyzed, and its reproduction parameters determined. The identification of species of ruminants'
ticks, and that of antelopes' piroplasms species in Bouhedma Park was conducted.


Jbil National Park: The assessment of Jbil National Park pastoral activities was performed and
has shown that grazing exclusion had a very beneficial effect on overall vegetation cover.
The analysis of certain plant species germinative aptitude found in Jbil Park revealed a general
fall in germinative power related to a decrease of water potential of imbibition solutions. With
the same water potential, species are more sensitive to saline stress than to water stress.
The study of the houbara bustard ecology and behavior in Jbil national park, confirmed its status
of endangered rare species in Jbil area. The houbara bustard is found in only one small section of
the park.
The fennec fox ecology in Jbil Park was studied through prospections carried out in the park
where fennecs were observed in day light and there tracks detected (footmarks, droppings,etc).
A closing seminar for the research component was organized by INRGREF (November 11 to
November 13, 2008). The seminar gave the opportunity to present GAP project research
outcomes, exchange information and strengthen co-operation between research and higher
education institutions involved in the project.
It should be noted that the GAP project provided the opportunity to generate, through
conventions with research organizations, a training program leading to formal certification, new
in Tunisia. PhD dissertations, master's degrees and end of studies research projects benefited
from the scientific dynamics created by the project, and their number testifies to the kind of
interest that was trigerred.
The details on scientific productions (articles, booklets, data and technical sheets) and research
projects prepared as part of the training program leading to formal certification are presented in
the summary report of scientific outcomes generated through the said project.


1.4 Scientific Monitoring of National Parks

Expectations: One of the project's objectives is to support the establishment of SSSPN within
the DGF Subdirectorate for National Parks. SSSPN will capitalize on existing results and data
from the Information System for Forest Planning (Système d'Information pour la Planification
Forestière -SIPF) which is currently under operation within DGF. A team of three technicians
will be assigned to SSSPN and trained to meet the needs for monitoring and evaluation of the
project, benefiting from the experience of the SIPF team already in place and its equipment. A


                                                37
node will be established in every park and within MEDD. The training of Parks technicians and
keepers will address the use of SSSPN as a management tool. Basic spatial data are already
available for Bouhedma and Jbil within the General Directorate for Spatial Planning (Direction
Générale de l'Aménagement du Territoire), prepared by the National Remote Sensing
Centre (Centre National de Télédétection), and data from the project SAIDE, using
nomenclature "Corinne". Ichkeul will benefit from the acquisition of orthophotos (1/25.000),
part of SIPF. Additional data will be obtained during project implementation, according to the
needs. A specialized consulting firm will be hired to design and implement the system and train
its users. SSSPN will use nomenclature Corinne (project SAIDE), which will be adopted at the
national level as part of the GEONAT project (national maps actualization project).

Achievements: This system has been connected to the DGF's Information System for Forest
Planning (Système d'information pour la planification forestière -SIPF). The launching of this
activity has experienced considerable delay; it is only in 2008 when a contract was signed with a
consulting firm to design and implement the system which has been conceived so that it can be
accessible from DGF offices as well as from the 2 parks of Bouhedma and Ichkeul. Jbil Park was
not included in this contract because of a lack of financing.
The implementation of this system was performed in 4 phases: the first one dealt with the study
and design part (finished and approved), the second one with data collection, organization and
harmonization (within a database), the third one concerned the development of the system, which
was done directly on DGF server, while it was already hosted in MARH's FSI, and the fourth
concerned the implementation of the System, which ended at the time of the evaluation mission.
Computer hardware acquisitions for DGF, DGEQV and the 3 regional Parks, as well as
topographic maps and satellite pictures covering the 3 parks are completed. Training activities at
the central and regional levels have also been completed with a training course in California on
ESRI products for 4 engineers, and ISG training for 6 technicians from the Bouhedma, Jbil and
Ichkeul Parks, and DGF and DGEQV technicians.
It should be noted that nodes planned in every park have not established for lack of Internet
connection in these parks.

Component 1 implementation impacts

Component implementation indicators, as presented in the log frame, are: I) achievement of
annual activity plans, ii) acquisition of equipments and contracting of works, iii) budgetary
planning, monitoring, and control, iv) parks executives using methodological tools to raise
awareness, planning/communication, v) parks executives have received training, vi) research
outcomes are used in PAGs, vii), SIG-PN is used.

(i) More than 80% of annual activity plans has been implemented
(ii) More than 90% of equipments and works have been acquired and contracted.
(iii) Budgetary planning, monitoring and control are adequate even if there is room for
improvement.
(iv) Parks executives are able to use methodological tools for awareness-raising, and planning /
communication.


                                               38
 (v) Parks executives have all received the planned training, and their management skills have
improved. It should be noted that some training topics did not receive the attention they deserve,
particularly in environmental socioeconomics, ecotourism management, and sociocultural topics.
Support for training activities in ecotourism would have been beneficial for the parks
management. The same can be said for foreign languages training for young people living near
the parks.
(vi) Research results have only been partially exploited in the PAGs because the said PAGs and
research conventions have been launched simultaneously. However, results obtained at the end
of the project are used as tools for decision-making and are likely to be useful to parks managers
in future planning actions and PAGs revisions.
(vii) SSSPN is not used directly by the 3 parks, but has a website accessible through Internet
(http://193.95.122.123/sigpn2/ennahli.php) and its evolutionary design allows regular update. It
is hoped that the parks will be connected to this system, which is open and could be expended to
all the APs of Tunisia.

2.   Component 2: Management of protected areas
With an initial costs of 7.18 million $EU, this component aimed at (I) managing and restoring
ecosystems in the three national parks of Ichkeul, Bouhedma and Jbil, in order to protect the
important flora and fauna on a global level, (II) to assist with the development of ecological
tourism, and (III) to define community development plans with the local population, in order to
ensure the sustainable conservation of biological diversity.

Expectations: The project included the design of detailed management plans; and the provision
of equipment, training and small infrastructures for the three sites. It was also expected that
mechanisms be put in place intended to reduce the excessive use of natural resources, in
particular shared resources such as grazing lands. Ecological tourism strategies were to be
formulated stressing the interactions between conservation and economic benefits for local
communities. Land use and management plans were to highlight not only the technical aspects
(inventory, infrastructure, monitoring) but also issues of strategy and sustainability. These plans
were to be carried out throughout project implementation. This component also comprises an
additional financing from the French GEF (CMS management), for Bouhedma and Jbil parks,
which relates to sahelo-Saharan antelopes, particularly their translocation in the 2 parks.

Activities part of this component are: (I) general study about the potential and methods for the
development of ecological tourism in national parks and reserves, including private tourist
concessions, emphasizing the three project sites; (II) creation of leisure areas (zones de loisirs)
and provision of their infrastructures and equipments, (parking spaces, main entrances/doors,
botanical garden, enclosed park for animals, etc.); (III) provision of equipment and material for
reception centers and ecological museums (including the construction of a new ecological
museum in Douz for Jbil Park), (IV) purchase of horse-drawn carriages and other means of
ecological transportation, (V) support for the launching of tourism products including visits/stays
with Ichkeul Park local communities, (VI) information campaign and production of documents
to promote ecological tourism (posters, charts, guides, postcards, etc.), and (VII) training of




                                                39
ecological guides as well as reception centers and ecomuseums personnel in management /
conservation of the protected areas in accordance with the training component (component 1).

The promotion of ecological tourism in Ichkeul and Bouhedma parks is planned as part of
PATC; with the development of support infrastructure outside the parks, including improvements
in electrification, water provision in rural areas, communications, and access roads, as well as
trees plantation, roads signaling, and construction of waste discharge systems, and a geological
museum in Ichkeul.



Achievements
Development and Management Plans (PAG)
The 3 PAGs were developed in 2005 (Bouhedma), 2007 (Ichkeul), and 2008 (Jbil). The delay in
the formulation of these PAGs did not allow implementing all planned actions in time. The
delays can be explained by procurement and conventions procedures, and by the time needed for
the no-objection from the World Bank.
These PAGs are considered orientation tools for future interventions, part of new projects; and
are regarded satisfactory in terms of the analysis of the Park' situation and the suggested
conservation, rehabilitation and development programs. These PAGs gave a response to the main
questions and include intervention programs to fulfill the requirements of conservation and
sustainable development, integrating local populations, and proposing diagrams and
development programs for ecotourism around the parks.

Each PAG includes a presentation of the park current situation, a synthetic description, and a
vision for development in the mid-term (5 years) and the long-term (10 years), as well as a
development and management program at the administrative and institutional levels. Technical,
social and land measures have been recommended in various parts of the park (integral zone,
buffer zone and peripheral zone). Emphasis was made on conservation and ecosystems
protection aspects in the integral zone, and on the need for integrated economic development in
the peripheral zone.

The awareness-raising, education, and training aspects in relation to each park, were also
addressed through a proposal for an awareness-raising and public education program, and the
selection of target groups and pilot actions for that activity. There was also some discussion
about developing an operational plan for the development of ecotourism. An investment and
operational budget was adopted for each PAG. Every PAG included appendices with flora and
fauna inventories and cartographic documents, one of them relating to ecotourism development.
If the PAGs quality is considered satisfactory, they have been only partially implemented. This is
explained in part by the delay in their development and by the lack of funding. Even without
delay, the budget allocated within the framework of this project would not have allowed to
implement the 3 PAGs.



                                               40
Community-based Development Plans (PDC)
Each park has presently a PDC. These PDCs were developed in 2006 (Bouhedma and Ichkeul)
and 2008 (Jbil). Each PDC includes a presentation of the park and its context, characteristics,
natural environment degradation processes; as well as the socio-economic characteristics of the
populations living within and in the periphery of the park, the main activities economic in the
area, the reception in the park, unemployment and its causes, labor specialization, and the
beneficiaries of the income-generating activities.
The end-results of the participatory diagnosis and planning processes were presented with these
PDCs, including the concerns of the speakers, proposals for solutions, hierarchisation of the
problems, and development main orientations. An action plan was also prepared, with costs
estimates and financing schemes. The development of these PDCs included an animation and
assistance component in the related area. PDCs were developed with the participation of
agricultural development groups (Groupements de développement agricoles -GDA) from
communities in the parks's periphery (1 in Ichkeul, 3 in Bouhedma, and 2 in Jbil). Compensatory
and inciting activities were proposed and implemented as micro-projects in the areas of animal
husbandry, bee-keeping and artisanat. GDAs capacity building through the provision of small
equipments and training in various fields was also provided.

These plans were partially implemented thanks to agreements signed with some NGOs (ASAD
for Ichkeul and FCTD for Bouhedma), and the PDC of Jbil regional administration. Participants /
speakers at the local level expressed mixed opinions about the development of these PDCs. The
methodology that was used has obviously benefited from the capitalization of DGF in this area,
but the implementation of these PDCs revealed some weaknesses (for example, some income
generating actions were not carried out, although they were included in the
agreements/conventions with 2 development NGOs).

It should be pointed out that the separation between PDC design and implementation was not a
judicious choice in this type of situation. It is obvious that the period of time between the
beginning of PDC implementation and the end of the project is very short, but the creation of
GDAs, as part of the project, generated a better collective mobilization compared to the situation
existing before project implementation. This dynamics continues at least with regard to the 3
GDAs. Monitoring, evaluation and giving specific supports to these GDAs by the Regional
Development Councils (CRD) has proven to be necessary.

Developing ecotourism activities
The development of ecotourism activities around the parks is addressed in studies including all
the parks development plans and in the PDC. These studies have proposed interventions in the
parks and their peripheries in order to generate and support ecotourism activities to be carried out
by small entrepreneurs from the local population or GDA, or by concessionaires under the
condition that they hire members of these communities.




                                                41
PAGs have studied the potential for sustainable ecotourism activities in each park, in terms of the
approach strengths and weaknesses, ecotourism products to be developed, potential markets,
promotional and marketing activities, potential profits from these activities, and ecotourism
management and the involvement of local populations. An indication of the necessary measures
needed for each park or its surroundings to develop minimal infrastructure for ecotourism
services is provided. This, in addition to regulatory and support measures for local population
involvement in ecotourism activities, to be integrated into national and regional strategies for
sustainable development.
Moreover, a study entitled "Wildlife contribution to the development of ecotourism and
improvement of local communities living conditions" was carried out (February 2009). Leisure
areas infrastructure, including equipment, parking spaces, main entrances, botanical garden,
enclosed plot of land for animals, have been built in the 3 parks. Equipment and material for the
reception centers and ecological museums have been acquired for the 3 parks. Means of transport
inside the parks have been acquired (quads, motorcycles, and VTT) as well as dromedaries (Jbil).
Support for the launching of new ecotourism products such as stays with the local community in
Ichkeul Park didn't materialize, in spite of efforts that were pursued after the end of the project.
This type of activities requires authorizations from various government agencies. The
information campaign and the production of documents to promote ecological tourism were
carried out for Ichkeul and Bouhedma Parks. Posters and flyers were published and disseminated
in addition to what was produced for the project component # 3. The training of ecological
guides and reception centers and ecomuseums personnel in protected areas
management/conservation was carried out according to the program planned for the three parks.


Achievements for each park may be synthesized as follows:

Ichkeul National Park: In this case, important works have started as part of the project. They
concern marshes rehabilitation, infrastructures implementation (headquarter equipment, firewalls,
avoids, and pedestrian paths). These actions have contributed to withdrawing Ichkeul NP from
the UNESCO World Heritage list of sites in danger. External factors have also contributed to
improving the situation, such as operating the lock. Other works could not be implemented for
lack of funding.

The following actions were taken to improve the park condition : acquisition of office furniture,
electronic office equipment, computer materiel, construction equipment, a boat, a tractor, a
backhoe loader, a van, hydromechanical equipment to produce drinking water for the
ecomuseum, electrical equipment; and construction of an entry hall, construction of a geological
museum, purchase of woodwork, electrification of the ecomuseum in solar energy, kitchen
equipment, purchase of observation materiel, and photocopiers.

Training has been provided to park technicians and environmental protection guards, and took
place in Senegal for GEF project management, national parks management, procurement,
ornithology, and SIG-related. Monitoring has improved thanks to the acquisition of watching
material, transmitter-receivers, and 5 moppets, as well as the supply and installation of a mesh


                                                42
enclosure on 14 km to protect the marshes, and another one to protect the mountain (Djebel) on
7Km, the construction of fire-breaks (8Km) and pedestrian paths (5Km), and the rehabilitation of
existing tracks (6.2 km). Activities of environmental conservation and rehabilitation were carried
out through the spreading of Joumine wadi (river) and accommodation works of a tributary
ravine of Tinja wadi.

The carrying out of PDC activities by the NGO ASAD led to the acquisition of equipment for the
GDA buildings, the grafting of oleasters (households were given the right to graft 300 trees, but
the results are not satisfactory and the rates of union are very low; the causes of this failure are
linked to the grafting and to a lack of technical knowledge), the training of GDA members (for
keeping the books and registers), the training of 31 beneficiaries in bee-keeping (of which 28
launched their own micro-project), the training of 2 beneficiaries in rabbit breeding (these
beneficiaries did not create their own micro-project because the proposed buildings were not
adequate), the rehabilitation of Hammams (the analysis of thermal springs was performed and
difficulties to obtain authorizations were overcome, but the lack of time has not allow
performing the rehabilitation work. However, and given the profitability of this activity, efforts
will be pursued after the closing of the project to carry out this activity with GDA), and the
creation of a community meadow exploited by the residents and the improvement of
(community) dirt paths (the access has improved in and around the park).

Ecotourism promotion included the study of ecotourism development methods for the 3 parks,
the acquisition of equipments for the playing area, signaling systems (although more is needed),
40 bicycles (still with the local government agency at the end of the project), and the conversion
of a building in a geological museum and 3 other ones as a nature shop, restaurant and lodging
facility. For awareness-raising, extension and education purposes, a camera, a video camera, a
television set, a video player, sculptures of life-size animals, have been purchased, and an exhibit
in the ecomuseum organized.
 
Additional training to develop professional skills was provided to environmental protection
guards in the areas of fauna management, reception and education of the public, and
management of the mammary populations. Research activities and ecological monitoring
achievements in Ichkeul Park are presented in component I. The project's achievements in
Ichkeul Park contributed to significantly improving the Park condition. Some weaknesses have
however been noted during implementation. They are about income generating activities for the
local population, whose purpose was to induce the population to better preserve and manage the
park.
Bouhedma National Park: The PAG and PDC as well as the ecotourism potentials study have
been completed and are used to provide guidance regarding the conservation and development of
the park and its peripheral area. The scientific research activities that were performed made it
possible to better understand the natural ecosystem and adapt planning and implementation
activities. In terms of zoning, the integral reunification of protected areas in order to create a
larger area of 10000ha was carried out with the extension of the enclosed areas.



                                                43
The construction of several checkpoints, watchtowers, and dirt roads has been performed, and
this has allowed, with the improvement of transportation, to better monitor the park. CES works
and plantations have improved the rate of vegetation cover with regard to the Acacia tortilis
subsp. raddiana. The transfer of a first batch of Addax in the national parks of Jbil and Sanghar,
as well as of Oryx in the national park of Dghoumes, has been performed.

The administrative and institutional aspects have been addressed by means of training sessions in
GDF projects management (Senegal), national parks management, market management,
ornithology, SIG; and the construction of a meeting room, the connection of park buildings to
the electrical network, the electrification of the drilling area (area 2), the construction of a
reservoir and a tank, the construction of a house, the construction of entrance doors, the
rehabilitation of buildings, the installation of solar energy systems, the installation of an electric
transformer, the construction of a shelter (for the engine), the rehabilitation of the park electrical
network, the construction of the park residences, the acquisition of office equipment including
data processing equipment (4PC, 4 printers, a scanner, a laptop, a photocopier) audio-visual
material (video-projector, television set, video player, portable VHF) and a meeting room
equipment.

Two all-terrain vehicles and a tractor with a trailer were bought. Monitoring has improved with
the construction (22Km) and maintenance of dirt roads (24Km), the acquisition of 4 motorcycles,
and the installation of a fence for the protected areas, on 35 km. Environmental conservation and
rehabilitation concerns were addressed through a drilling (with its equipment), the construction
of a drain tank and the vegetalisation of 130 ha.

PDC implementation has been performed through a contract signed with a development NGO
(FTDC). This implementation made it possible to implement microprojects, including the
purchase of pregnant goats (10 for 10 beneficiaries), camels (2 female per beneficiaries for 5 r
beneficiaries), bee-keeping equipment (6 full hives with accessories per beneficiaries for 5
beneficiaries); the plantation of fruit trees (1ha per beneficiary for 30 beneficiaries; the
acquisition of 8 greenhouses (1 greenhouse per beneficiary for 8 beneficiaries), surface well
equipment with electric pumps for 5 beneficiaries (these have not been used because 380V
electric current is not available, although it is needed to reach ground water at more than 40 m
depth; and the equipment needed for a carpenter was not provided for same reason ; the
acquisition of weaving machines for 20 beneficiaries, and sculpture tools for 6 beneficiaries; and
the training of 12 guides specialized in ecotouristim was provided.

Ecotourism promotion was performed through the conduct of several studies on: ecotourism
development modalities in the 3 parks, parks reception areas, ecotourism equipments; and the
construction and rehabilitation of dirt roads inside the park, a watchtower at a strategic location
for visitors to observe wildlife and admire typical landscapes, the construction and rehabilitation
of the park main entrances, the construction and equipment of a meeting room, and the
construction of a pond behind the ecomuseum filled with water from the Ain Charchara river.
 


                                                 44
Component 3 contributed to awareness-raising, extension, and education through the
programmed actions (environmental clubs within schools). Additional training was provided to
environmental protection guards in fauna management, reception and education of the public,
and mammary population's management (populations mammaires). The results of research and
ecological monitoring activities in Ichkeul Park are presented in component I.

Most project objectives were implemented in Bouhedma Park which now seems better prepared
to absorb the maximum of possible investments, because of its statute of ancient park, the
opportunities that it offers, and the dynamism of the park keeper. Weaknesses in implementation
concern the approach developed vis-à-vis local communities, and the scope of income-generating
activities, which were supposed to provide incentives for the local population to better preserve
and manage the park. In fact, a very small percentage could benefit from these endeavors, and
the GDAs own efforts in this direction should be encouraged (the GDA of Belkhir2, for example,
is looking for potential donors to pursue those efforts after the project).

Jbil National Park: Jbil National park: the PAG and PDC for Jbil Park have been prepared. An
integral protected area of 8500 ha was created and enclosed in order to allow biological recovery
(remontée biologique), and the reintroduction of species that had disappeared (White Gazelle,
Addax and Red-Necked Ostrich). Basic infrastructure has improved (residences, offices, wells,
service station at the northern entry to the park); an ecomuseum has been built and another one
equipped. All-terrain vehicles have been bought to allow the monitoring of the park. In terms of
biodiversity, the slender-horned gazelle, the addax and the red-necked ostrich have been
reintroduced. In terms of community development, 2 GDA have been established.

The equipment needs have been addressed through the acquisition of 2 vans (4X4), a tractor, a
drilling, the construction of a north and south logistic base, a comfort station; and the acquisition
of computer equipment, office furniture, and an air-conditioner Administrative and institutional
needs have been addressed through the provision of training sessions.

Monitoring and control have improved with the purchase of transmission material, the supply
and installation of a 10 km fence, the construction of observation towers, the construction of 15
km of dirt roads; and the acquisition of all-terrain vehicles, computer material, monitoring
material, and signal equipment.
Environmental conservation and rehabilitation activities included plantation works. Habitats
rehabilitation included the construction of fences, the translocation of 28 Addaxes, the
introduction of 7 white gazelles, and a study on the re-establishment of fauna in the park.
PDC implementation was performed through the regional administration of Kébili. In the
particular case of Jbil Park, the activities intended for the local population have been reduced
(given the size of the population bordering the park). Implemented activities included a drilling,
the construction of 2 shadow shelters (ombrières) of 320m2, and of a drinking trough for the
transhumant population.

The promotion of ecological tourism was made through the acquisition of camping material,
motorcycles, traffic signs, tents, dromedaries and Quads.


                                                 45
Awareness-raising, extension, and education activities have benefited from the acquisition of a
numerical camera, mattresses, and especially ecomuseum equipments.

Additional training was provided to environmental protection guards in the areas of fauna
management, reception and education of the public, and mammary population's management
(populations mammaires). The results of the research and ecological monitoring activities in Jbil
Park are presented in component I.

Impacts of component 2
Indicators, as presented within the log frame, are: (I) the setting up of dialogue and validation
forums, (II) availability of sociocultural and ecological information, and (III) a satisfying rate of
engagement/commitments and payments.

(i)The project contributed to PAGs and PDCs development, and GDAs creation. It also
contributed to their operations, through the setting up of dialogue and validation forums. The
type of relations that existed between them before the project did not allow dialogue, and most
activities performed in the 3 parks "were imposed" by the government. The project contributed
to establishing a spirit of partnership (although fragile and in need of consolidation), and to the
fact that bordering populations have, for the first time, the sense of really being involved in the
parks management; the formation of GDAs is likely to prolong this partnership if their
sustainability is strengthened.

(ii)The component has contributed to obtaining sociocultural and ecological information useful
for future interventions in the 3 parks. Diagnoses and solutions obtained through the PDCs
represent references (lacking before the project) that have contributed to their implementation.
The ecological information collected through the research actions or during component 2
implementation is much diversified; an optimized valorization of this information would be very
useful.

3. Component 3 : Public awareness
Expectations: With an initial costs of 0.68 million $EU, this component aimed at strengthening
public support for the conservation of biological diversity at the local and regional levels. The
action plans were to be centered on priority groups like members of local governments, visitors,
and schoolchildren to raise their awareness about the importance of biological diversity
conservation in the three parks. Awareness tools include media for the general public, formal and
informal education, and the development of interactions with local NGOs, schools, tourism
agencies, and other organizations, to promote a better understanding by the general public of
biological diversity resources and develop an interest in protected areas participative
management.
For each park, key species/themes have been identified, and constitute the core of public
awareness campaigns, and the main research, monitoring and conservation activities. These key
species/themes are the Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana and the slender-horned gazelle for the



                                                 46
parks of Bouhedma and Jbil respectively, and the theme of water resources management in the
case of Ichkeul Park. The mentioned activities will be developed at the local/community level
around these species/themes in order to raise-awareness for the purpose of supporting biological
diversity conservation in the long run.

Achievements: The execution of this component began at the end of year 2005 with the
recruitment of a national consultant in charge of the implementation of the planned actions.

The achievements concerned 4 main themes: (I) communication with and awareness-raising of
priority groups (communities and local and regional governments, parks visitors and students),
(II) creation of 14 environmental clubs, (III) design and development of tools and audio-visual
aids for information and awareness-raising, and (iv) support for organizing bordering populations
(of the three parks).

Communication with and awareness-raising of priority groups: local workshops were organized
between 2006 and 2008, in the localities of the 3 parks, and were attended mainly by members of
local governments, NGOs and schools with environmental clubs.

(i) The themes that were dealt with are: "the Role of Jbil National park in Sustainable
Development and Saharan Environmental Tourism" in Douz-Kébili, "Sustainability and
Valorization of Terrestrial and Marine Protected Areas" in Ichkeul Park; and the organization of
regional meetings, inter alia in Gafsa, Sidi Bouzid and Kébili, about: "The Role of GDAs and
NGOs in PDC Implementation", "Local Agenda 21: A Tool for Sustainable Development".
Other related activities included visits to exhibits organized by environmental clubs. Each one of
these events was attended by approximately 60 participants, representing local authorities,
various local administrative structures and GDAs, as well as NGOs, teachers, school principals
and student from schools hosting the environmental clubs.


(ii) Creation of 14 environmental clubs: The project carried out a collaboration agreement
between the MEDD and the Ministry of national education concerning the creation of
environmental clubs. Fourteen (14) clubs were created, including 12 in elementary schools and 2
in high schools, with supply of didactic, data-processing and office automation material, as well
as posters, documents and flyers. Nine (9) teachers were trained to implement animation
programs. The clubs animators benefited in their respective areas from 2 information sessions on
the role of the 3 parks in local development. However, and in order to ensure the sustainability of
this initiative, it is recommended to take measures to maintain these clubs so that they can fully
play their part in the future.

(iii) Design and development of information and awareness-raising tools and audio-visual
aids: the tools developed include CD-ROM on the protected areas of Tunisia and a document,
five (5) booklets on the protected areas concerning six (6) parks (in Arabic, French and English),
five (5) sensitization brochures (in Arabic, French and English) on the possibilities of ecotourism
promotion in 5 parks, including Bouhedma, Ichkeul and Jbil, and three television commercials
about ecosystems, landscapes and potentialities of the 3 parks. An Atlas and an interactive CD


                                                47
Rom on the protected areas have also produced and disseminated. Excursions for schoolchildren,
members of the environmental clubs have been organized. They concern 14 clubs: Ichkeul
towards Bouhedma, Jbil towards Bouhedma, Bouhedma towards Ichkeul and Jbil towards
Ichkeul. All these visits were supervised by the project expert and an executive from the
DGEQV.

(iv) Assistance for the organization of the three parks border populations: Animation and
facilitation meetings led to the organization of 6 formal groups: 1 GDA in Ichkeul, 3 GDAs in
Bouhedma and 2 GDAs in Jbil, and the constitution of four monitoring regional committees, for
the three parks, in order to assist with project planning and implementation. The people in charge
of the component within DGEQV, supported by a national consultant, contributed to the
preparation of Tunisia's request to the World Heritage Center to withdraw Ichkeul from the list
of World Heritage in Danger, which was done during the last session (30th). Basic training in
protected areas management and safeguarding was provided to GDAs members.

Although not envisaged in the evaluation document, it has been decided to formulate a National
strategy for awareness-raising and communication around the national parks. At the end of the
project, this strategy was not been finalized; a workshop was to be used to validate the strategy,
but it didn't take place. This strategy was based on the analysis of other experiences,
investigations, dialogues with the population and the stakeholders at the national and local levels,
thus responding to the focus of the project aiming at integrating the local population as much as
possible, which would benefit from improved ecosystems and the provision of services. It was
thus proposed to integrate PDC orientations in the aforementioned strategy, based on the
conception that awareness raising /communication and community development are two
concepts that go hand in hand.


Component 3 implementation impacts
Implementation indicators for component 3 as presented in the logical framework are: (i) the
creation of communications associates positions, and (ii) the percentage of students having
obtained a grade of 15 on 20.

(i) If the position of communications associate for each park is officially created, a more precise
definition of the job remains to be done. Efforts in communication recently developed at the
local level were not dependent on such a position. It is difficult to give a high weighting
coefficient to this indicator to evaluate the impact of the component achievements.

(ii) The same can be said for the indicator `percentage of students having obtained a note of
15/20', which was replaced by a qualitative investigation to find out the degree of awareness of
the student. This substitution is justified by the lack of data, before the creation of environmental
clubs. The survey carried out in 2005 and 2007 shows that the degree of students' awareness was
low in 2005 (90% of the sample have a low degree of awareness). In 2007 the degree of
students' awareness was remarkable for practically all the students in the sample. In addition to




                                                 48
environmental clubs, the implementation of all the project components has certainly contributed
to the improvement of awareness.

In addition, the implementation of the project induced MEDD to launch an education and
environmental communication program using the project outcomes. This was done with the
support of German and Spanish development cooperation. With regard to ecotourism, DGEQV
started a program to develop natural heritage. Detailed studies were carried out for initiatives
such as the Sahara and oases circuit. A program is also under development to be submitted to
GEF for financing, which will allow to build on the lessons learned from the present project.




                                              49
                                                                      Results Framework/ Key Performance Indicators
                                                                     End of project results     Initial situation                                   End of project situation
           GENERAL IMPACT INDICATORS
    1)    Biodiversity has improved in the three parks:
Ichkeul:                                                                 2 stands are re-
                                                                                                      14%                                                      60%
  Potamogeton stands re-established                                    established at 80%
  Index of land-cover of sirpaies                                       increases by 50%             25%
  Greylag Geese attendance                                              increases by 20%           500 units                                                  2 800
Bou Hedma:                                                              150, 40 and150
                                                                                                  107, 25, 124                                             124, 26, 117
  Population of gazella leptoceros, gazella dorcas, and Oryx             respectively
  Density in Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana                           increases by 15%           17 trees/ha                                            23 trees/ha (35%)
 Jbil :
                                                                       increases by 15%           Tracks (2x)       track (3x) and 7 gazelles observed
  Population of gazella leptoceros and gazella dorcas
2) Improvement in the interest of peripheral populations
  % of the population convinced of the importance of parks                    20%                 insignificant     20% of the population. Source: Opinions survey of GDAs, clu
  % of the budget paid to communities
                                                                         15% in year 5                0%            16% of the budget (40% of the budget for civil engineering w
(% of salaries for development works and dirt roads construction)
         IMPACT INDICATORS BY COMPONENT
Component 1: Institutional strengthening

 Communities involved in Parks activities                           50% of GDA's members               0            Almost all GDA's members
Component 2: Development and management of three parks
                                                                                                                    Ichkeul : water, agriculture and animal husbandry manageme
 Park management has an influence on regional plans                 For water and agriculture     insignificant     Bou Hedma : water, and agriculture management
                                                                                                                    Bou Hedma : School map :high school construction
 Reduction of illegal activities                       Ichkeul                   0                    ND                                                 In distinct decline
                                                     Bou Hedma                   0                    ND                                                     In decline
                                                           Jbil                  0                    ND                                      Jbil: Reduction of 32 (2004) à 1 (20
                                                                                                                    Law (regarding forestry and tourism concessions in parks) am
 Tourism concessions in the parks                                         Satisfactory               None
                                                                                                                    to be published soon.
 Ichkeul water Physicochemical parameters                            Distinct improvement       Unsatisfactory      Distinct improvement (see ANPE reports)




                                                                            50
                                                                         Improved by 5% in year
  Score for Parks general management                                                                   Not measured                                                      -
                                                                          3, and 10% in year 5

 Component 3: Communication and awareness-raising
                                                                          Ichkeul, Bou Hedma :
  Percentage of activities assigned to communities                                 15%                       nil                                                  At least 25%
                                                                               Jbil : 10%
  % of the populations are sensitive to key themes                           25% in each park            Very weak                                  Bou Hedma 30% Ichkeul 37% Jbil 5
  IMPLEMENTATION INDICATO BY COMPONENT
 Component: Institutional strengthening
  Yearly activity plans implemented                                          at 80% each year               0%                                                        80%
  Equipments bought and works performed                                     in 80% of the cases             0%                                                        90%
  Budgetary planning, monitoring and control                                     Adequate                 Average                                                   Adequate
  Parks executives use methodological tools for awareness-
                                                                                Satisfactory                 0%                                                     Adequate
   raising, planning and communication
  Parks executives having received training                               100% of the executives             0%                                                       100%
 Results of research activities are used in management plans                                                              Organization of `scientific days' (Nov. 08). On going exploita
                                                                                Satisfactory                weak
 (PAG)                                                                                                                    social sciences or socio economics.
                                                                                                                          SSSPN finalized at the central level
  SSSPNPN is used                                                           For the three parks              nil
                                                                                                                          (Web site : http://193.95.122.123/sigpn2/ennahli.php)
  Rate of recruitment and payments                                              Satisfactory                 NA                                                  Satisfactory
 Component: Development and management of the three parks
  Forums for dialogue and validation are set up                             Fully operational               little                                                 Adequate
  Sociocultural and ecological information                                 Available and in use            average                                       Increasing availability and use
  Rate of recruitment and payments                                            Satisfactory                                                                        Satisfactory
 Component: Communication and awareness-raising
                                                                                                                            An executive has been officially designated for the deputy p
  Creation of communication associate positions                          One position in each park       No position
                                                                                                                                              terms of communication remains to be s
  % of pupils having received a grade of 15/20                                      70%                      NA                                                       See1/

1/ This indicator has been replaced by a qualitative survey to determine the degree of sensitization of pupils. This change is justified by the lack of data before the creation of enviro
Pupils considered with a very satisfactory sensibility are those who:
     have carried out at least 3/5 activities in the environmental clubs
     have a good or very good judgment for environmental communication and participation
     have participated to, at least, one excursion to the national park


                                                                                 51
Survey results:

                                                           Year 2005    Year 2007
              Size of the sample                           100 pupils   100 pupils
              Size of the sample                              36%           36%
                                       Low                    90%            0%
              Degree of awareness      Average                10%            9%
                                       Satisfactory            0%           40%
                                       Very satisfactory       0%           51%




                                                           52
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

No attempt has been made to carry out a financial and economic analysis due to the
inherent difficulty in quantifying all the costs and benefits for environmental operations
involving public goods.




                                           53
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Abderrahmane Ben Boubaker                 Consultant            MNSSD
Luis F. Constantino                     Sector Manager          MNSSD
                                                                MNSRE
Fabrice Cuzin                               Consultant
                                                                 - HIS
 Abdelghani Inal                            Consultant          MNAPR
 Moez Makhlouf                              Consultant          MNAFM
 Abdelkrim Oka                              Consultant          MNSSD
 Ayat Soliman                    Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Spe MNSSD
 Catherine Cormont Toure                    Consultant          MNSSD
Lucie Tran                             Operations Officer       MNSSD
Jean Marc Bisson                            Consultant          FAOCP


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                      23.79
  FY98                                                                       9.17
  FY99                                                                      49.51
  FY00                                                                      11.57
  FY01                                                                      52.74
  FY02                                                                     141.13
  FY03                                                                       0.00
  FY04                                                                       0.00
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                       0.73
  FY07                                                                       1.41
  FY08                                                                       0.00
                               Total:                                      290.05
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                                        0.00
  FY98                                                                        0.00
  FY99                                                                        0.00
  FY00                                                                        0.00


                                             54
FY01                       0.00
FY02                       0.00
FY03                 3    61.52
FY04                      64.19
FY05                      49.39
FY06                      60.92
FY07                      80.75
FY08                     114.21
       Total:        3   430.98




                55
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)


Not required for a core ICR.




                                      56
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)


Not required for a core ICR.




                                   57
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Borrowers ICR (English Translation of Original French Report)

Summary of objectives and project components
1.1   Development objectives

The Protected Areas Management Project (PAMP) main development objective is to
improve the management and protection of Bouhedma, Jbil, and Ichkeul National Parks
for the purposes of conserving biodiversity of global importance, and contributing to the
overall improvement of local populations' welfare.

1.2   Components
The PAMP includes three components:
       (i)     institutional strengthening,
       (ii)    development and management of the three parks, and
       (iii)   raising public awareness.


1.3   Cost
  The total project cost of the project was estimated at its inception in 2002 at 9.88
  million USD, 54% of which were financed by the Global Environment Facility (or 5.3
  million, later reduced to 5.15 million) and 43% (4.24 million) by the Government.
  Funding (0.15 million) was also provided by the French Fund for World Environment
  (FFEM) and some small contributions by local concerned communities and
  multilateral financial institutions.


1.4   Implementing agencies
 The project is jointly implemented by the Directorate General for Forests (Direction
 Générale des Forêts -DGF) within the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
 (Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Hydrauliques -MARH), for the first two
 components; and by the Directorate General for the Environment and Quality of Life
 (Direction Générale de l'Environnement et de la Qualité de la Vie ­DGEQV) of the
 Ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Development (Ministère de
 l'Environnement et du Développement Durable - MEDD), with regards to the third
 component




Main factors influencing implementation



                                            58
2.1. Factor linked to the delay in launching the project
A delay occurred at the beginning of the Project caused by lengthy procurement
procedures necessitating several administrative steps and therefore a lot of time. This,
however, didn't have a major impact on the final achievements of the project, because it
was possible to make up for lost time during the last three years of the said project.


2.2. Factor related to the exchange rate
Depreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Tunisian Dinar (TD) (TD = $ 0.77 in
late 2006) has affected project implementation, but the devaluation did not compromise
the objectives of the project, since less funding was spent on the implementation of
component 2 of the project through the use of small contracts with consultants and
national scientific institutions.
2.3.Factor linked to the design and implementation of planning tools
Park Management Plans (Plan de Gestion des Parcs -PGP) and Community
Development Plans (Plan de Développement Communautaire -PDC) have been designed
relatively late and their implementation was not fully completed at the end of the project.


2.4.Factor linked to the large number of interveners in project implementation
In addition to the usual call for tenders procedures launched by the PGAP, it should be
noted that there was a relatively large number of interveners in the project. This multitude
of interveners was not easy to manage, and made it difficult to monitor the
implementation of planned actions.


Project Implementation
3.1 Implementation Arrangements
The project was supervised by an interministerial steering committee, including the
MARH and MEDD, and other ministries such as the Ministry of Development and
International Cooperation, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and Local
Development, and the Ministry of Tourism and Handicrafts.

The Project Management Unit (UGP) was located within DGF, performing coordination
activities, and providing technical, scientific and financial monitoring. A project
management team was created, whose members belong to MEDD MARH in addition to
regional committees.




                                            59
3.2 Component I Achievements : Institutional Strengthening
The objective of this component was to strengthen the institutional capacity of DGF
(MARH), CRDA, MEDD, its regional directorates and other partners, in relation to
sustainable management of protected areas

This component includes:
        support to the Project Management Unit ;
        training of the staff involved in the project, including on-the-job training, training of
        trainees, and degree courses;
        technical and scientific studies;
        establishment of a scientific monitoring system for national parks.


      3.2.1     Support to UGP

UGP was strengthened through the recruitment in 2005 of technical and management
staff, as well as deputies for parks conservators. In addition, two all-terrain vehicles were
acquired: one for DGF and the other for DGEQV. All-terrain vehicles were also
purchased for the 3 parks: 2 vehicles for Bou Hedm NP, 1 pickup truck for Ichkeul NP,
and 2 others for Jbil NP. Computer equipment, and office supplies and furniture were
acquired for the central and regional offices, which contributed to strengthening their
capacities. The recruitment of consultants to carry out project evaluation is in its final
stage and equipment and software were acquired for SIG.

Each agency involved in implementing the project has officially appointed a coordinator
in charge of preparing sub-projects accounts and financial monitoring reports. The
implementing agencies have put in place the required logistics for the project, benefiting
from experience acquired through the implementation of several previous projects.

      3.2.2     Training
The project has implemented the three expected types of training:
    (i) Training on the job, for conservation technicians and eco-guards from all three
    project parks and other parks in various areas:

a. wildlife management;
b. use of participatory and communication techniques in relation to the environment;
c. FEM projects management (6 people trained in Senegal);
d. national parks management (two field trips of 20 days in Kenya for 15 district heads,
15 conservators and 20 UGP members, as well as hunting warden and forestry
technicians)
e. avian fauna management (20 eco-guards);
f. public reception and education (20 eco-guards);
g. four engineers attended the users of ESRI products 26th international conference in


                                                60
California, USA. Twenty (20) eco-guards and 10 conservators have been trained in avian
fauna management and ten 10 eco-guards in reception of the public;
h. training in herpetofauna and mammal populations management for 10 conservators and
20 eco-guards;
i. training in ornithology and SIG for technicians from the 3 parks.

Other individuals from outside the administration (12 GDA members) have also received
training in community development in Tabarka, in collaboration with the NGO APPEL.
Twenty (20) local communities members have also received training, entitled: "Valuing
the Environment: Developing Local Activities." This training was held at Chaambi NP.

(ii) Training of trainers: This training has been scheduled in conjunction with the
research program and has contributed to the achievement of 28 Masters' degrees and 2
PhD dissertations. Training was provided in the area of ecology and the functioning of
protected areas natural ecosystems. A 2 months training for a DGF official took place in
France in 2006, focusing on protected areas ecology and natural ecosystems functioning.

(iii) Degree courses: Several scientific research works have been performed through
PAMP, including:
             a. 6 PhD dissertations,
             b. 24 master theses, and
             c. 4 research projects as End of Studies Work.
This training emphasizes PAMP pilot aspects and is a first for such projects in Tunisia.
Specialists in flora and fauna have been trained and may in future contribute to the
development of protected areas.


     3.2.3      Technical and scientific studies
UGP has signed 12 conventions with research centers, higher education institutions, and
management entities for this sub-component. These conventions concern 28 research
projects to be performed by various research institutions: INRGREF,'IRA Médenine,
l'ANPE, SSNT-FS Tunis, ASTMer-FS Tunis, ATPNE-FS Sfax, INAT, and ENMV-Sidi
Thabet.
Four research projects are the same for the three parks, while others are specific to each
park: 8 for Ichkeul, 8 for Bouhedma and 7 for Jbil.

The results of these research projects are many, varied and practical. Progress reports,
final reports, special reports, guides and fact sheets were provided. PAMP allowed for the
organization of a seminar where results obtained (under PAMP) were presented
(November 2008).

The monitoring of vegetation dynamics for the 3 parks has been carried out, and
phytoecological maps have been established; endangered species have been the subject of


                                            61
a specific study; and precise inventories and monitoring of the reptiles and mammals
population, as well as an inventory of terrestrial invertebrates have been conducted for
the 3 parks.


For Ichkeul National Park: The updating of mathematical models used to evaluate
water supply from dam water releases, has allowed determining water and salinity levels
compatible with the park specificities.

A study of insects' biodiversity identified 145 species in Ichkeul NP, spread over 13
orders. Another study regarding buffaloes' parasitic disease in the park allowed to
identify their parasitic agents, and to better understand the level of infestation. An
analysis of the genetic variability of the water buffaloes population in Ichkeul NP has
also been performed.



For Bouhedma National Park: The ecology and dynamics of Acacia tortilis subsp.
raddiana (the flagship species of the park) have been identified; a morphological
variability of this species has been identified as well; the phenological cycle of the
species was analyzed and important parameters for regeneration have also been
identified; the germinative behavior of Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana vis-à-vis salt and
osmotic stress was evaluated; the Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana caryological study was
performed, and a polymorphism rate of 45% has been identified.

Analyses were conducted regarding the distribution and cover of Acacia tortilis subsp.
Raddiana stand, its fruiting, the ecology of pests insect of pods of this species, the attacks
of Acacia tortilis subsp raddiana seeds, the relationship between Oryx and Addax energy
needs and the pastoral potential of Bouhedma PN, birds diversity, the Mohr gazelle
ecology and the identification of the species of ruminants ticks in Bouhedma Park.


For Jbil National Park: An assessment of the grazing capacity of this park was
developed showing that fencing had a very beneficial impact on the overall recovery of
vegetation.

An analysis of the germination ability of some plant species in the park revealed a
general decline in germination capacity related to the decrease of water potential of
imbibition solutions. With equal water potential, species are more sensitive to salt stress
than to water stress.


A study of the Houbara Bustard ecology and behavior in Jbil National Park confirms its
status as a rare and endangered species. Houbara Bustard is found only in a small section
of the park.



                                             62
The fennec ecology in the Jbil Park was studied through investigations conducted in the
national park, where this type of fox was observed in broad daylight and its tracks were
detected (footprints, presence of feces, etc.).
A concluding seminar for the research component was organized by INRGREF, from
November 11 to November 13, 2008. The seminar provided an opportunity to present
research results achieved under the GAP project, and exchange information and
strengthen cooperation between research organizations and higher education institutions
involved in the P-GAP project.
It should be noted that PGAP has allowed, through agreements with research
organizations, a level of training that lead to the obtention of degrees, for the first time in
Tunisia. Indeed, doctoral dissertations, master's degrees, and end of studies research
papers have benefited from the scientific dynamics triggered by PAMP, and their number
reflects the enthusiasm created.Details on scientific outputs (articles, brochures, data
sheets) and dissertations are included in the report including scientific outputs of the
project.
        3.2.4    National parks scientific monitoring system
The system was set up by the project PAMPA and linked to the DGF's Information
System for Forest Planning (Système d'information pour la planification forestière -
SIPF). The system was designed and developed after considerable delay, with a structure
of digitized data integrated in the database. Computer equipment, topographical maps,
and satellite images covering the 3 parks have been acquired and training has been
provided at the central and regional levels.
The nodes that were supposed to be established in each park were not set up, due to the
lack of Internet access in the parks.
3.3 Component II Achievements : Protected areas management
          The objectives of this component ware the following:
          (i) ecosystems management and restoration in the three national parks, to protect
          flora and fauna important at the global level;
          (ii) assisting in the development of ecological tourism activities, and
          (iii) defining local community development plans aimed at conserving biological
          diversity.
3.4.1 Managing and restoring the ecosystems in the three parks

There was a delay in the preparation of Development and Management Plans (PAG).
This prevented from implementing all actions in a timely manner, but the 3 parks have
management plans that will guide future interventions. The PAGs include analysis of the
parks situation, and programs have been proposed for conservation, rehabilitation and
development of these parks.
3.4.2     Community Development Plans (PDC)

The 3 parks have community development plans developed in agreement and


                                              63
consultation with the local population, and the various services and regional and local
organizations. These plans have been implemented by NGOs or regional administrations.
These PDC have been developed in collaboration of Agricultural Development Groups
(GDA), the Parks surrounding communities (1 from Ichkeul, 3 from Bou Hedma, and 2
from Jbil). In addition, micro projects have been initiated in farming, beekeeping and
crafts, in addition to the strengthening GDAs capacities through the provision of small
equipments, and training in various areas.

3.4.1 Development of ecotourism activities

The development of ecotourism activities around the parks is addressed in all PAGs and
PDCs. These plans include specific interventions in the parks and their peripheries in
order to launch and support ecotourism activities to be organized by small entrepreneurs
from local populations or the GDAs, or preparing programs that could be implemented by
concessionaries under the condition that they hire members of the local populations or
through their development groups.

PGAP has led to the creation of recreational areas and their infrastructure and equipment,
parking areas, entrance gates, botanical garden and enclosed areas (pens) for animals.




3.4 Component III Achievements : Public awareness/sensitization

The achievements in this case concern 4 areas:

(i) communication and awareness raising of priority groups (communities and local and
regional park visitors and school children);
(ii) establishment of 14 environmental clubs;
(iii) design and development of audio-visual information, and awareness tools;
(iv) support to organizing the three parks surrounding populations.

3.4.1 Communication and awareness of priority groups:

Local workshops were held in the 3 parks between 2006 and 2008, and attended mostly
by members of local administrations, NGOs and schools with environmental clubs.
The topics covered are: "The Role of Jbil National Park in Sustainable Development and
Saharan Environmental Tourism" in Douz-Kébili, "Sustainability and valorization of
terrestrial and marine protected areas" in Ichkeul Park. In addition regional meetings
were organized (in Gafsa, Sidi Bouzid and Kébili) on the following themes: " GDAs and
NGOs role of in the implementation of PDCs", "Local Agenda 21: a tool for sustainable
development"; and visits to environmental clubs exhibits were organized.


                                             64
3.4.1 The Environmental Clubs

The project has initiated a collaboration agreement between MEDD and the Ministry of
Education regarding the establishment of environmental clubs. 14 clubs have been
created, twelve (12) in primary schools and 2 in high schools and other secondary schools,
with provision of educational materials, computers and office equipment, as well as
posters, pamphlets and documents. Nine (9) teachers have been trained to implement
related animation programs. The clubs leaders have benefited, in their respective regions,
from 2 information sessions on the role of the 3 parks in local development.

3.4.4 Design and development of audio-visual information and awareness tools


The tools include CD-ROM on protected areas in Tunisia, and 5 brochures on protected
areas regarding 6 parks (in Arabic, French and English), five (5) awareness brochures (in
Arabic, French and English) on the possibilities of promoting ecotourism in 5 parks,
among which are Bouhedma, Ichkeul, and Jbil; and three TV spots on ecosystems,
landscapes and the potential of the 3 parks mentioned. An Atlas and an interactive CD
ROM on protected areas have also been produced and disseminated.

Field trips were organized for the benefit of schoolchildren members of 14 environmental
clubs.



3.4.5 Support for organizing neighboring population of the three parks

Support (for animation and facilitation) was provided with regard to the organization of 6
GDAs, and basic training in protected areas management and conservation, for GDA
members.

A consultant has been hired who has developed a proposal for an outreach and
communication strategy around the national parks. A workshop is planned in order to
validate the said proposal. The proposed strategy is based on an analysis of all previous
experiences in this regard, on surveys and consultations with citizens and stakeholders at
national and local levels, on the experience with and achievements of the communication
and awareness activities. This has been done in the spirit of integrating the local
population in order to benefit from the ecosystems and the services provided.


Project impacts
PAMP was successful in:
   improving biodiversity conservation in the three parks;
   improving local populations living conditions;



                                              65
     park management capacity building;
     integrating park management in local development;
     insuring partners and local populations collaboration in park management; and
     capacity building for monitoring protected areas in Tunisia.

Future Outlook

It is important to maintain the momentum generated by PAMP in the 3 NPs.

Experience with the GAP project should be extended to other protected areas, and the
dynamics of the partnerships should be sustained. However, scientific research in the
other protected areas should be intensified based on PGAP achievements. Socio-
economic aspects should also be addressed in this research.



Rappels des objectifs et des composantes du projet
1.1 Objectifs de développement
Le Projet de Gestion des Aires Protégées (PGAP) a pour objectif principal de
développement l'amélioration de la gestion et de la protection des parcs nationaux de
Bouhedma, Jbil et de l'Ichkeul en vue de conserver la diversité biologique d'importance
mondiale et de contribuer à l'amélioration des conditions de vie des populations locales.
1.2 Composantes
Le PGAP comprend trois composantes sont :
        (iv)    renforcement institutionnel,
        (v)     aménagement et gestion des trois parcs,
        (vi)    et sensibilisation du public.
1.3 Coût
    Le coût total du projet était estimé à son lancement en 2002 à 9.88 millions de $EU,
    dont 54% financé par le Fonds pour l'environnement mondial (soit 5.3 millions, plus
    tard réduit à 5,15 millions) et 43% (soit 4.24 millions) financé par le Gouvernement. Il
    était également prévu un financement de 0.15 million du Fonds Français pour
    l'Environnement Mondial (FFEM) et des contributions minimes par les communautés
    locales concernées et des institutions multilatérales de financement.
1.4 Agences d'exécution
   Le projet est co-exécuté par la Direction Générale des Forêts (DGF) du Ministère de
   l'Agriculture et des Ressources Hydrauliques (MARH) pour les deux premières
   composantes et par la Direction Générale de l'Environnement et de la Qualité de la Vie
   (DGEQV) du Ministère de l'Environnement et du Développement Durable (MEDD) en
   ce qui concerne la troisième composante.




                                               66
Principaux facteurs influençant l'exécution
   2.1 Facteur lié au taux de change.
La dépréciation du Dollar des EU par rapport au DT (1 DT = 0.77$ EU en fin de 2006) a
eu des répercussions sur la mise en oeuvre du projet, mais cette dévaluation n'a pas
compromis les objectifs fixés du projet étant donné que des économies ont été réalisées
sur l'exécution de la composante 2 du projet par le recours aux petits contrats avec les
consultants nationaux et les institutions scientifiques.
   2.2 Facteur lié au retard de démarrage effectif du projet
Un retard a été enregistré au début du Projet vu les diverses actions prévues et qui
dépendent de nombreux appels d'offre dont la préparation et le traitement ont exigé
plusieurs étapes administratives et donc énormément de temps. Ce facteur n'a pas eu
de conséquences majeures sur les réalisations finales du projet étant donné que ce
retard a été rattrapé durant les trois dernières années.
   2.3 Facteur lié à l'élaboration et la mise en oeuvre des outils de planifiaction
Les Plans d'Aménagement et de Gestion (PAG) et des Plans de Dévelopement
Communautaire (PDC) ont été élaboré relativement en retard et leur mise en oeuvre n'
pas été achevée en totalité à la fin du projet.


   2.4 Facteur lié au nombre d'intervenants dans la mise en oeuvre du projet.
En plus des procédures habituelles d'appels d'offres lancés par le PGAP, il faut signaler
le nombre relativement important des intervenants dans le projet. Cette multitude
d'inervenants n'est pas simple à gérer et rend difficile le suivi de l'exécution des actions
prévues.

Réalisation du projet
3.1 Modalités d'exécution
Le projet a été supervisé par un comité interministériel de pilotage qui comprend, outre
le MARH et MEDD, d'autres ministères tels que le Développement et Coopération
Internationale, les Finances, l'Intérieur et Développement Local, et le Tourisme et
Artisanat.
L'unité de gestion du projet (UGP) était localisée à la DGF, elle a coordonné et assuré le
suivi technique, scientifique et financier du Projet. Une équipe de gestion du projet a été
créée ; les membres de cette équipe appartiennent au MARH et MEDD en plus de
comités régionaux et de
3.2 Réalisations de la Composante I : Renforcement institutionnel
L'objectif de cette composante était de renforcer la capacité institutionnelle de la DGF
(MARH), des CRDA, du MEDD et de ses directions régionales et d'autres partenaires en
matière de gestion durable des aires protégées.
Cette composante comprend
       Un soutien à l'Unité de Gestion du projet ;
       Une formation du personnel impliqué dans le projet avec trois types: de
       formation sur le tas, formation des formateurs et formation diplômante
       L'élaboration d'études techniques et scientifiques


                                              67
       L'établisement d'un système de suivi scientifique des parcs nationaux.
   3.2.1       Soutien à l'UGP ;
L'UGP a été renforcée par le recrutement en 2005 de personnel technique et de gestion,
des adjoints aux conservateurs des parcs ont été nommés, deux véhicules tout terrain
contre ont été acquis: un pour la DGF et l'autre pour la DGEQV. Des véhicules tout
terrain ont été également acquis pour les 3 parcs: 2 véhicules pour le PN de Bou
Hedma, une camionnette tout terrain au PN d'Ichkeul et de 2 camionnettes tout terrain
pour le PN de Jbil. Au niveau central et régional des équipements bureautiques et
informatiques étaient acquis ainsi que des fournitures, des constructions, entretiens et
des meubles ont permis de renforcer les capacités des administrations régionales. Le
recrutement de consultants pour l'évaluation du projet est effectué dans sa phase finale
et des équipements et logiciels informatiques ont été acquis pour le SIG
Chaque agence d'exécution intervenant dans le projet a désigné officiellement un
coordinateur responsable de la préparation des comptes des sous projets et des
rapports de suivi financier des sous projets. Les agences d'exécution ont mis en place la
logistique nécessaire pour l'exécution du projet en bénéficiant des expériences
accumulées tout au long des plusieurs projets qu'elles ont exécutés auparavant.
       3.2.2   Formations
Le projet a réalisé les trois types de formation prévus :
(iii) La formation sur le tas : qui a touché les techniciens de la conservation et les éco-
gardes provenant des trois parcs du projet et d'autres parcs dans divers domaines :
       a. gestion de la faune,
       b. utilisation des techniques de l'approche participative et des techniques de
          communication sur l'environnement.
       c. la gestion des projets FEM (6 personnes formés au Sénégal),
       d. la gestion et la direction des parcs nationaux (deux voyages d'étude de 20
          jours au Kenya pour 15 chefs d'arrondissement, 15 conservateurs et 20 des
          membres de l'UGP, des brigadiers de chasse et des techniciens forestiers),
       e. la gestion de la faune aviaire (20 éco-gardes)
       f. et l'accueil et l'éducation du public (20 éco-gardes).
       g. Quatre ingénieurs ont également participé à la 26ème conférence
          internationale des utilisateurs des produits ESRI, tenue en Californie aux
          USA. Vingt (20) éco-gardes et dix (10) conservateurs ont été formés dans le
          domaine de la gestion de la faune aviaire et dix (10) éco-gardes dans le
          domaine de l'accueil du public.
       h. formation en gestion de l'herpétofaune et des populations de mammifères
          pou dix (10) conservateurs et vingt (20) éco-gardes.
       i. formation en ornithologie et en SIG pour les techniciens des 3 parcs.
D'autres personnes extérieures à l'administration (12 membres de Groupements de
Développement Agricole- GDA) ont également reçu une formation en développement
communautaire à Tabarka en Collaboration avec l'ONG APPEL et 20 membres des
communautés locales ont également bénéficié d'une formation ayant pour thème :
« Valoriser l'environnement: Développer les activités locales ». Cette formation a eu lieu
au PN de Chaambi.
(iv) Formation des formateurs : cette formation a été programmée en conjonction avec le
programme de recherche et a permis d'aider à la réalisation de 28 Mastères et 2 thèses



                                             68
de doctorat. Elle a touché le domaine de l'écologie et le fonctionnement des
écosystèmes naturels des aires protégées. Une formation pour un cadre de la DGF,
d'une durée de 2 mois, a eu lieu en France en 2006. Elle a porté sur l'écologie et le
fonctionnement des écosystèmes naturels des aires protégées.
(v) Formation diplômante : le PGAP a permis la réalisation de plusieurs travaux
scientifiques diplômants. Il s'agit de
            a. 6 thèses de doctorat,  
            b. 24 mastère  
            c. et 4 Projets de fin d'études (PFE).  
Cette formation conforte l'aspect pilote du PGAP et représente une première dans les projets de 
ce type en Tunisie. Des spécialistes matières en faune et flore ont ainsi été formés et pourront, à 
l'avenir, contribuer au développement des aires protégées. 

        3.2.3   Études techniques et scientifiques
L'UGP a signé 12 conventions avec des établissements de recherche, d'enseignement
supérieur, et des établissements de gestion pour cette sous-composante. Ces
conventions renferment 28 actions de recherche réparties entre les différentes
institutions de recherche : l'INRGREF, l'IRA Médenine, l'ANPE, la SSNT-FS Tunis,
l'ASTMer-FS Tunis, l'ATPNE-FS Sfax, l'INAT et l'ENMV-Sidi Thabet.
4 actions de recherche sont communes aux trois parcs, les autres sont spécifiques pour
chaque parc : 8 actions pour Ichkeul, 8 actions pour Bouhedma et 7 actions pour Jebil.
Les produits livrés par ces actions de recherche sont nombreux, diversifiés et pratiques.
Des rapports d'activité, des rapports finaux, des rapports spécifiques, des guides et des
fiches techniques ont été fournis et le PGAP a également permis l'organisation d'un
séminaire où les résultats obtenus dans le cadre du PGAP ont été présentés (Novembre
2008).
Un suivi de la dynamique de la végétation des 3 parcs a été fait et des cartes
phytoécologiques ont été établies, des espèces menacées de disparition ont fait l'objet
d'une étude particulière, des inventaires précis et des suivis de la population des reptiles
et des mammifères en plus d'un inventaire des invertébrés terrestres ont été faits dans
les 3 parcs.
Pour le Parc National de l'Ichkeul, une étude de l'actualisation des modèles
mathématiques a permis d'évaluer les apports d'eau des lâchers des barrages ont
permis de'avoir des niveaux d'eau et de salinité compatibles avec les particularités du
parc.
Une étude de la biodiversité de l'entomofaune a permis de recenser 145 espèces du PN
de l'Ichkeul réparties sur 13 ordres, une étude de la pathologie parasitaire des buffles du
parc a permis d'identifier les agents parasitaires présents chez ces animaux et de mieux
connaître le niveau de l'infestation. Une analyse de la variabilité génétique de la
population de buffles d'eau de l'Ichkeul a été faite.
Pour le Parc National de Bouhedma : l'écologie et la dynamique de l' Acacia tortilis
subsp. raddiana (l'espèce phare du parc) ont été cernées, une variabilité morphologique
de cette espèce a été mise en évidence, le cycle phénologique de l'espèce a été
analysé et des paramètres importants pour la régénération ont été identifiés, le
comportement germinatif de l' Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana, vis-à-vis de stress



                                                69
osmotique et salin, a été évalué, l'étude caryologique chez Acacia tortilis subsp.
raddiana a été faite où un taux de polymorphisme de 45% a été mis en évidence.
Des études sur a répartition et du recouvrement du peuplement d'Acacia tortilis subsp.
Raddiana, la fructification, l'écologie des insectes parasites des gousses de cette
espèce, les attaques des graines de l'Acacia tortilis subsp raddiana, la relation entre les
besoins énergétiques de l'Oryx et de l'Addax et les potentialités pastorales du PN de
Bouhedma, la diversité de l'avifaune, l'écologie de la gazelle mhorr et la détermination
des espèces de tiques des ruminants du Parc du Bouhedma ont été réalisées.
Pour le Parc National de Jebil : L'évaluation des capacités pastorales du parc national
de Jebil a été faite et a montré que la mise en défens s'est traduite par un effet très
bénéfique sur le recouvrement global de la végétation.
L'analyse de l'aptitude germinative de certaines espèces végétales du parc de Jebil a
révélé d'une façon générale une baisse de la capacité germinative liée à la baisse du
potentiel hydrique des solutions d'imbibition. A potentiel hydrique égal, les espèces sont
plus sensibles au stress salin qu'au stress hydrique.
L'étude de l'écologie et du comportement de l'Outarde Houbara () dans le parc national
de Jebil a donné des résultats qui viennent confirmer le statut d'espèce rare et menacée
de disparition de l'outarde houbara dans la région du Jebil. L'outarde houbara n'occupe
qu'une petite portion du parc.
L'écologie du fennec dans le parc de Jebil a été étudiée à travers des prospections
effectuées dans le parc national de Jébil où le fennec a été observé en plein jour et ses
traces ont été décelées (traces, présence de fèces...).
Un séminaire de clôture de la composante recherche a été organisé par l'INRGREF, du
11 au 13 Novembre 2008. Ce séminaire a permis de présenter les résultats de
recherche obtenus dans le cadre du Projet GAP et d'échanger les informations et
renforcer la coopération entre les institutions de recherche et d'enseignement supérieur
impliquées dans le projet P-GAP.
Il faut signaler que le PGAP a permis de générer, à travers les conventions passées
avec les organismes de recherche, une formation diplômante jamais égalée en Tunisie
auparavant. Des thèses de doctorat, des mastères et des projets de fin d'études ont
bénéficié de la dynamique scientifique créée par la PGAP et leur nombre traduit
l'engouement créé.
Les détails sur les productions scientifiques (articles, brochures, fiches techniques) et
les mémoires élaborés pour la formation diplômante figurent dans le rapport de synthèse
des acquis scientifiques du projet.
       3.2.4   Système de suivi scientifique des parcs nationaux
Le système a été mis en place par le PGAP et a a été rattaché au Système d'information
pour la planification forestière (SIPF) de la DGF. Après un retard considérable, ce SIG a
été conçu et développé avec une structuration des données numérisées et intégrée
dans la base de données. Le matériel informatique, les cartes topographiques et les
images satellitaires, couvrant les 3 parcs, ont été acquis et une formation a été
dispensée au niveau central comme au niveau régional.
Les noeuds prévus pour être établis dans chaque parc ne sont pas établis faute de
connexion Internet dans ces parcs.




                                            70
3.3 Réalisations de la Composante II : Gestion des aires protégées
Les objectifs de cette composante sont les suivants :
        (i) gérer et restaurer les écosystèmes dans les trois parcs nationaux afin de
        protéger la flore et la faune importantes au niveau mondial ;
        (ii) aider au développement d'activités de tourisme écologique ; et
        (iii) définir avec les populations locales des plans de développement
        communautaire ayant pour but la conservation durable de la diversité biologique.
3.4.1   Gérer et restaurer les écosystèmes dans les trois parcs
La préparation des Plans d'Aménagement et de Gestion (PAG) a été faite avec un
retard pris ce qui n'a pas permis de mettre en oeuvre toutes les actions prévues en
temps opportun, mais les 3 parcs possèdent des plans d'aménagement et de gestion qui
vont permettre d'orienter les interventions futures. Les PAG ont analysé les situations
des parcs et des programmes ont été proposés pour la conservation, la réhabilitation et
la mise en valeur de ces parcs.
3.4.2   Plans de Développement Communautaire (PDC)
Les 3 parcs disposent de plans de développement communautaire réalisé avec une
entente et une concertation avec les populations locales et les différents services et
organisations régionales et locales. Ces plans sont entrés en application par
l'intermédiaire d'ONG ou de l'administration régionale.
Ces PDC ont été élaborés avec la participation les groupements de développement
agricoles (GDA) des communautés des périphéries des parcs (1 à l'Ichkeul, 3 à Bou
Hedma et 2 à Jbil). Des micro-projets ont été initiés dans les domaines de l'élevage,
l'apiculture et l'artisanat en plus du renforcement des capacités des GDA par des
menus équipements et des formations dans différents domaines.
3.4.3   Développement d'activités touristiques à caractère écologique
Le développement d'activités de l'écotourisme autour des parcs est étudié dans tous les
plans d'aménagement des parcs et dans les PDC. Ces études ont proposé des
interventions dans les parcs et à leurs périphéries pour créer et soutenir des activités
écotouristiques destinées à être montées par des petits entrepreneurs parmi les
populations locales ou les GDA ou préparant des programmes qui pourraient être
montés par des concessionnaires à condition d'employer des membres de ces
populations ou à travers leurs groupements de développement.
Le PGAP a permis la création de zones de loisirs et leur infrastructure et équipement,
d'aires de stationnement, portes d'entrée, jardin botanique et enclos pour animaux.
3.4 Réalisations de la Composante III : Sensibilisation publique
Les réalisations ont porté sur 4 axes :
   (i) communication et sensibilisation des groupes prioritaires (communautés et
         administrations locales et régionales, visiteurs des parcs et écoliers),
   (ii) création de 14 clubs environnementaux,
   (iii) conception et élaboration des outils et supports audio-visuels d'information et
         sensibilisation
   (iv) appui à l'organisation des populations riveraines des trois parcs.




                                           71
3.4.1 Communication et sensibilisation des groupes prioritaires :
Des ateliers locaux ont été organisés dans les localités des 3 parcs entre 2006 et 2008
et ont touché principalement des membres des administrations locales, des ONG et des
écoles ayant des clubs environnementaux.
Les thèmes traités sont « le Rôle du Parc National de Jebil dans le Développement
Durable et le Tourisme Environnemental saharien », à Douz-Kébili, « Pour la durabilité
et la valorisation des aires protégées terrestre et marine» au parc Ichkeul et
l'organisation de réunions régionales (à Gafsa, Sidi Bouzid et Kébili) sur les thèmes:
"Rôle des GDAs et des ONGs dans la mise en oeuvre des PDC", "Agenda 21 local : un
outil pour le développement durable" et des Visites des expositions organisées par les
clubs de l'environnement.

3.4.2 Les clubs de l'environnement :
Le projet a réalisé une convention de collaboration entre le MEDD et le ministère de
l'éducation nationale concernant la création de clubs environnementaux. 14 clubs ont
été créés dont 12 dans des écoles primaires et 2 dans des lycées et collèges avec
fourniture de matériel didactique, informatique et bureautique ainsi que des affiches,
documents et dépliants. Neuf enseignants ont été formés pour assurer des programmes
d'animation dans ce sens. Les animateurs des clubs ont bénéficié, dans leurs régions
respectives, de 2 sessions d'informations sur le rôle des 3 parcs dans le développement
local.

3.4.3   Conception et élaboration des outils et supports audio-visuels d'information et
        sensibilisation
Les outils produits sont composés de CD-Rom sur les aires protégées de Tunisie et un
document, cinq (5) brochures sur les aires protégées concernant six (6) parcs (en Arabe,
Français et Anglais), cinq (5) brochures de sensibilisation (en Arabe, Français et
Anglais) sur les possibilités de promotion de l'écotourisme dans 5 parcs dont Bouhedma,
Ichkeul et Jebil et de trois spots télévisés portant sur les écosystèmes, paysages et
potentialités des 3 parcs. Un Atlas et un CD ROM interactif sur les aires protégées ont
été également produits et diffusés
Des excursions ont été organisées au profit des écoliers membres des clubs de
l'environnement aux niveaux des 14 clubs
3.4.4 Appui à l'organisation des populations riveraines des trois parcs
Un appui d'animation et de facilitation a été apporté à l'organisation de 6 GDA constitués
et une formation de base, en gestion et préservation des aires protégées, a touché les
membres des GDA.
Un consultant a été recruté a élaboré une proposition de stratégie de sensibilisation et
de communication autour des parcs nationaux. Un atelier est programmé pour valider
cette proposition. Cette stratégie a été basée sur l'analyse de toutes expériences
précédentes en la matière, des enquêtes et des concertations avec la population et les
parties prenantes au niveau national et local, l'expérience et les acquis de la mise en
oeuvre du plan d'action de communication et de sensibilisation et l'esprit du projet visant
à intégrer au maximum la population locale et à la faire bénéficier des avantages
pouvant découler des écosystèmes et des services fournis.




                                            72
Impacts du projet
Le PGAP a généré :
   Une amélioration de la conservation de la biodiversité dans les trois parcs
   Une amélioration des conditions de vie des populations locales
   Un renforcement des capacités de gestion des parcs.
   Une intégration de la gestion des parcs dans le cadre du développement local.
   Une adhésion des partenaires et des populations locales dans la gestion des parcs
   Un renforcement des capacités pour le suivi des aires protégées en Tunisie

PERSPECTIVES D'AVENIR
Il est important de ne pas rompre la dynamique lancée par le GAP dans les 3 PN.

L'expérience du GAP mérite d'être étendue aux autres aires protégées et de poursuivre
cette dynamique partenariale. Par contre, il faut intensifier les recherches scientifiques
dans les autres aires protégées en bénéficiant des acquis du PGAP. Les aspects socio-
économiques sont à renforcer dans ces recherches.




                                            73
Comments of the Borrower on the ICR report:

The Borrower has reviewed the report and indicated that it had no comments. Copy of the
incoming correspondence is attached below.




                                          74
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


None




                                    75
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document (June 2002).
2. Grant Agreement (May 2002).
3. Manuel d'exécution du projet (December 2002)
4. Aide-Mémoires of the supervision missions and ISRs
5. Periodic Progress reports and other project written outputs
6. Rapport de fin de projet (February 2009)
7. Synthèse des acquis socio-économiques du projet [February 2009]
8. Synthèse des acquis scientifiques du projet [February 2009]
9. Synthèse des acquis techniques et physiques [February 2009]
10. Aide-mémoire of the ICR mission [April 2009]




                                             76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 31835
                       8°                                           9°                                    10°                                        11°                                  12°                                13°
                                          Lake Ichkeul National Park                                     Bizerte
      Mediterranean                        Parc National de L'Ichkeul
              Sea                                                                                                                                                                               TUNISIA
37°
                                                                                                                    Ariana
                                                                                                                             Gulf of Tunis                                                      TUNISIE                                                  37°



                                                                          Beja                           TUNIS           Ben Arous
                                                                                                                                                             PROTECTED AREAS




                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                rd
                                                                                                je
                                                                                                                                                           MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                                                                                               ne
                                                                                            ed




                                                                                                              lia
                                                                                            M
                                                                                        .
                                      Jendouba




                                                                                                          Mi
                                                                                    O




                                                                                                         O.
                                                                                                     Zaghouan                                 Nabeul
                                                e
                                               gu
                                              lle
                                                                                                                                                            PROJET GESTION DES
                                          Me
                                         O.



                                                     El Kef


36°
                                                                                 Siliana                                                                      AIRES PROTEGEES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36°


                                                                                                                             Sousse
                                                                                                                                                Monastir
                                                                                                                     Kairouan

                                                                                                                                                           Mahdia                                    PROJECT SITES
      A L G E R I A                                                                                                                                                                                  SITES DU PROJET

                                              O.
                                                    El
                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIVERS
                                                         Ha
                                                              teb                                                                                                                                    FLEUVES
                                                              Kasserine
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAKES AND SALT LAKES
                                                                                    Sidi Bou Zid                                                                                                     LACS ET LACS SALES
35°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      35°

                                                                                                                                                                                                     GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                                            Bouhedma National Park                                                                                                   CAPITALES DES GOUVERNORATS
                                                                            Parc National de Bouhedma                                         Sfax
                                                                                                                                                           Kerkenah Is.                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CAPITALE DU PAYS

                                                         Gafsa                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                     FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES


                                                                                                                          Gulf
                                                                                                                           of
34°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      34°
                                                                                                                         Gabes
                            Tozeur                                                                                  Gabes                                                       0           25         50        75    100

                                                                                                                                             Djerba I.                                           KILOMETERS

                             Chott el Jerid                     Gbelli




                                                                                                                                Medenine                                                         Mediterranean
                                                Jbil National Park
33°                                             Parc National de Jbil                                                                                                                                                 Sea                                33°
                                                                                                                               Tataouine




                                                                                                                                                                                          12°                                13°


                                                                                                                                                                                     Madrid                 5°         10°                         20°
32°                                                                                                                                                                                 40°
                                                                                                                                                                          32°                                                        ITALY          GREECE
                                                                                                                                                                                SPAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mediterranean                                  Athens
                                                                                                                                                                                                Algiers            Tunis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea              MALTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Valletta
                                                                                                                                                                                    35°                                                                  35°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TUNISIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tripoli

                    ALGERIA                                                                                                                  L I B YA
                                                                                                                                                                                    30°                                                                  30°


        This map was produced by the                                                                                                                                                             ALGERIA
31°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L I B YA
        Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                31°
        The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                    25°                                                                  25°
        and any other information shown on
        this map do not imply, on the part of
        The World Bank Group, any judgment
        on the legal status of any territory, or
        any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                    20°
        such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                          MALI                        NIGER                  CHAD

                      8°                                        9°                                       10°                                         11°                                        0°          5°         10°                         20°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARCH 2002
