Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17308
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1940-BD)
January 22, 1998
Ifrastructure Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



BANGLADESH
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1              =      Tk (Taka) 31 (June 1988)
Tk 1              =      US$0.032  (June 1988)
US$1              =      Tk (Taka) 42 (June 1997)
Tk 1              =      US$0.023 (June 1997)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I meter (m)                 =      3.28 feet
1 kilometre (Ian)           =      0.625 miles
1 hectare (ha)              =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =      2,205 pounds (Ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS. ACRONYMS. AND GLOSSARY
ADB                  -          Asian Development Bank
CCD                  -          Credit Closing Date
DANIDA               -          Danish International Development Agency
DRDC                 -          District Road Development Committee
ECNEC                -          Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EEC                  -          European Economic Commnunity
EIRR                 -          Economic Internal Rate of Return
FRB                  -          Feeder Road Type B
'uCM                 -          Growth Centre Market
HBB                  -          Herringbone Bond (brick pavement)
IDA                  -          International Development Agency
KfW                  -          Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LGD                  -          Local Government Division (of the MLGRDC)
LGED                 -          Local Government Engineering Department
MLGRDC               -          Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives
MIS                  -          Management hiformation System
MRR                  -          Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation
NORAD                -          Norwegian Agency for Development Co-operation
ODA                  -          Overseas Development Administration
PD                   -          Project Director
PIO                  -          Project Implementation Office
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager:      Frannie Hi  ick
Staff Members:       Mohiuzzannan Quazi
Thampil Panka;
Jaswant Channe



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS. ACRONYMS. AND GLOSSARY (Cont'd)
RDP                 -         Rural Development Project
RIMC                          Rural Infrastructure Maintenance Cell
RHD                           Roads and Highways Directorate of the Ministry of
Communications
RRMIMP              -         Rural Roads and Markets Inprovement and Maintenance Project
SDC                 -         Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SEM&E               -         Socio-econarnic Monitoring and Evaluation
SIDA                -         Swedish International Development Authority
SRD                 -         Strategy for Rural Development
SRR                 -         Structures on Rural Road
Upazila             -         Sub-district
USAID                         United States Agency for Intemational Development
WBM                           Water Bound Macadam (paving)
WFP                           World Food Program
Zila                          District
This document has a restricted distrnbution and may. be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not oth'erwise be disclosed without
tWorld Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(RRMIMP)
(CREDIT 1940-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                            i
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I:       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                                1
B.    Achievement of Objectives                                             3
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                                   6
D.    Project Sustainability                                                7
E.    Bank Perfonnance                                                      8
F.    Borrower Performance                                                  9
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                                 10
H.    Future Operations                                                     12
I.     Key Lessons Learned                                                  12
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                   14
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments                                        15
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits                                     16
Table 3:      Project Timetable                                             16
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual    17
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation                      17
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation                           18
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project                                   18
Table 8A:    Project Costs                                                  19
Table 8B:    Project Financing                                              20
Table 9A:    Economic Costs and Benefits                                    20
Table 9B:    Economic Costs and Benefits                                    21
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants                                     22
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                 24
Table 12:    Bank Resources : Staff Inputs                                  24
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                                       25
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorisation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
APPENDLXES
A:    Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
B:    Economic Re-evaluation
C:    Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation Study
D:    ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
E:    Map IBRD No: 29273



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1940-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Roads and Markets
Improvement and Maintenance Project (RRM    ) in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1940-BD in the
amount of SDR 45 million (US$62.3 million equivalent) was approved on June 24, 1988 and made
effective on May 5, 1989.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997, after a one-year extension granted beyond the original
closing date of June 30, 1996. Final disbursement took place on November 19, 1997, at which time there
was a balance of SDR 3.79 million (US$5.15 million equivalent); this amount is being cancelled'. Co-
financing for the project was provided by Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) and Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation (SDC); both these agencies have commented on this document, and their
comments have been taken into account.
The ICR was prepared by Mohiuzzaman Quazi, Transport Engineer/Task Manager (SACBF),
Thampil Pankaj, Principal Transport Specialist (SASIN), Subhash Seth, Consultant Highway Engineer
(AFiTr), Zahed H. Khan, Urban Specialist (SACBF) and Jaswant Channe, Highway Engineer
(Consultant) (SASIN); and reviewed by Juan Gaviria, Sr. Transport Specialist (SASIN) and Arun
Baneijee, Principal Operations Officer (SACBF). Roziah Baba provided active support in completing the
report. The borrower's comments are also included as Appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's Supervision Mission conducted in March 1997. It
is based on material in the project files. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and commenting on the draft ICR.
At present the undisbursed balance is SDR 3,786,716.84. However, the Loan Departnent (LOAAS) confirms that there is
a balance of US$55,576.97 in the special account that needs to be refunded by the Government of Bangladesh (GOB).
When this amount is recovered, it will be converted to SDRs and the present undisbursed balance of SDR 3,786,716.84
will be increased by this amount.



ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    Banglades's population is largely rural with over 80% of the population living in rural areas. The
modernisation and maintenance of the country's rural infrastructre remains a critical factor in the
economc developmnent of Bangladesh. It is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita
income of about US$240. Its economy is affected by major tranwsportation constraints caused by a
cobinaton of geography, nature and clmate, with cyclones and floods a conmmon occurrence. In
Bangladesh, where poverty is pervasive particularly in the rural areas, and where the bulk of the population
lives, improving rural ifrastructure is an important strategy of the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) for
increasing and diversifying farm production, for raising incomes and living standard, and for reducing
poverty. Under recent and ongoing projects, with considerable IDA and other donor support, GOB has
started strengthening infrastructure related institutions and policies, and is making good progress in
improving its rural uifratructure, but there is still a long way to go to meet the massive investment needs in
the sector of rural development.
ii.    GOB's rural infrastructure improvement projects, funded by different agencies including IDA,
form part of a well-articulated rural development strategy focused on rural growth centres selected on the
basis of socioa-conomic importance and potential; the RRMIMP is one of such projects. GOB issued its
Strategy for Rural Development (SRD) in 1984, which guided its rural infrastructure investments for the
period 1985-95; a recent review by GOB/IDA of the working of this strategy has found that the strategy is
sound and has resulted in good regional development, and with minor changes and fine-tuning, should be
continued to guide further investments in the sector during the next ten years. In view of the success of the
strategy and the first round of projects, various international agencies are now funding follow-up projects.
IDA has funded a Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance project (RRMIMP-2),
which was approved by the Board in December 1996.
iii. The Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project (RRMIMP), was the first
major investment in the sector of rural infrastructure developmerLt and the project financed the rural road
and market improvements with co-financing from Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) and Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC). The project, successfully completed on June 30 1997,
assisted GOB in the following: (a) provide improved rural infrastructure in eight districts in Northwest
Bangladesh; and (b) develop institutional and financial arrangements to ensure better infrastructure
maintenance consistent with the Government's decentralisation policies. The project also succeeded in the
rehabilitation of existing roads and bridges, which were damaged during the floods of 1987 and 1988.
Project Objectives and Description
iv.    The project comprised of: (a) improvement of 500 km of feeder roads type 'B' (FRB) to bitumen-
surfaced standards and road side tree plantation; (b) construction of improved public facilities - internal
roads, paved areas, raised and covered selling areas, drainage, potable water supply and latrines - at 65
growth centre markets (GCMs); (c) construction of 4,000 meters of structures on rural roads (SRR); (d)
maintenance of the improved roads; (e) institutional development activities of LGED including construction
of a new LGED headquarters building, district offices and laboratories, training, contractor development;
and (f) socio-economic monitoring and evaluation of the completed projects. GOB requested, and IDA
agreed, to include rehabilitation of works damaged during 1988 floods in addition to 1987 floods. In view
of the need to introduce modern systems, standards and procedures, improve local capacity of LGED,
contactors and consultants in planning and implementing rural infrastructure projects on a sustainable
basis, this project was designed and approved as an experimental project, with an implementation penod of
seven years, which was subsequently extended to eight years (para. .29).
-C



iii
Implem tation Experience and Results
v.    The project was successful in achievig its principal objectives within the original cost estimates,
hough there were initial delays in appoting supervision consultants and disruptions caused by two major
floods in the project area. RRMIMP fully achieved all its physical objectives (para. 15) The works
completed (Table 5) were: (a) improvement of 1FRB (496 kn); upgrading of FRB (495 Iam); bridges on
FRB (1,079 metres); SRR (4,041 metres); periodic maintenance (150 In); routine maintenance (650 in);
and GCM (65 no.), and created a direct employment (18,600 person-years) for the construction and
maintenance of rural infrastructure. The quality of the completed works was highly satisfictory and passed
the test of 1995 floods. The institutional objectives for LGED were also substantially achieved
considering: (a) strengtheing of maitenance management of completed rural ifrastructure; (b)
establishment of good qualhty standards for road construction with local materials and expertise through
trial programs; (c) GOB staff training; and (c) enhanced capacity of LGED and local consultants and
contractors. However the financial objectives, i.e. to enhance resource mobilisation for the local bodies
(Union Parishads) (UPs) were partially achieved. The financial capacity of UPs is still indequate to
support maintenance activities of completed rural infrtructure, which is currently fimded friom GOB
budget. Although not direcdy targeted under the project, RRMIMP made contributions in achieving the
objecives of poverty reduction (para. 22), and also focused on gender concems by providing employment
opportunities for the destitute women (para. 24).
vi.    Besides significantly reducing the transportation costs on improved and upgraded roads, the project
also contributed in reducing travel time and providing good riding quality both for the motorised and non-
motorised traffic. The construction of SRR showed a remarkable achievement in improving accessibility
because ffie rural roads were initially constructed under the food for work program without the culverts
which could not be constructed due to lack of resources. The gaps so created were a major constraint for
accessibility on the rural roads. Both motonsed traffic and non-motorised traffic, significantly increased on
improved roads, fivouring among others the poor rickshaw pullers in terms of financial income as well less
physical fatigue. Due to improvement of GCMs, spoilage in marketing of perishable goods was
substantially reduced. Roadside tree plantation along the improved roads and bituminous surfacing of the
unpaved roads, reduced creation of dust and improved the environment in the project area.
vii.   The project investments showed high economic returns for the components of rural roads and
GCM (para. 41). The average economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the completed feeder road
component is estimated at 26% (Table 9A), compared with 25% estimated at appraisal, and EIRR for the
completed GCMs component is estimated at 31% (Table 9B), compared with 10% estimated at appraisal.
The econonic re-evaluation was based on findings of the Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation
(SEM&E) study carried out under the project, and completed in May 1997. The key objective of this study
was to monitor and evaluate socio-economic effects of the rural infrastructure (47 FRBs and 65 GCMs),
which was developed under RRMIMP in the eight districts. The SEM&E study evaluated the effects of
selected 40 FRBs and 10 GCMs through estimating EIRR by comparing pre-development and post-
development status of the rural roads and markets along with a series of other specific indicators. The
SEM&E study concluded that the development of rural roads and markets has generated. several positive
impacts (para. 40), which can be easily reflected in the following general pattem: (a) on improved roads
transport charges for goods and passengers decreased substantially; (b) generated significant new
employment for the rural poor; (c) losses due to spoilage or quality deterioration for perishable items such
as fish, meat, eggs, milk, and vegetables decreased significantly; (d) the lease value (bid price) and rentals
(toll collection) of the markets went up significantly; and (e) the cost of land near the markets increased
significantly. Given the substantial achievement of all the physical targets both in terms of quantity and
quality, the overall assessment of the project outcome is satisfactory.



iv
viii.  Since most of the civil works covered under RRMIMP included improvement of existig FRBs,
construction of drainage structures on feeder roads and rural 1roads, construction of GCMs and penodic
maitenance on exiting FRBs, no formal plan of operation was required. However to ensure routine and
periodic maintenance of the improved roads is appropriately undertaken, LGED is curreny implementing
IDA financed RRMIMP-2, which includes, inter-alia, a substantial component on road maintenance and
capacity building. LGED's  mtmance budget for all roacds has been increased progressively from
US$7.5 million in 1992/93 to US$22.5 million in 1997/98. Thi resource base for Union Council has also
been expanded by giving them 1% of Land transfer fee which will increase their financial capability to
improve and maintain rual infrstructure. About 50% of the lease value of markets is now going to UPs
instead of 40% previously. LGED has made all necessary arrangements including technical planning and
budgetary provisions to carry out the maintenance of roads, SFtRs and GCMs, and the follow-up project
RRMIMP-2 is addressing to a large extent concerns regarding the sustainability of the project. The Bank
performance was satisfactory in the identification and preparation phase. During project implementation,
the Bank-Borrower relationship was beneficial and productive. The Bank performance in the supervision
of the project was highly satisfactory in both quality and quantity. The borrower's performance has been
rated as highly satisfactory for the implementation of both the rural infrastructure component and the flood
rehabilitation component.
Key Lessons Learned:
xi.    As noted in the report "Bangladesh Rural Infrastructure Strategy Study (1996)," jointly prepared
by the World Bank and the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives, and
widely discussed with various stakeholders, the key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
* Start bidding process for civil works before project starts, and appoint design and supervision
consultants prior to Credit approval so as to avoid delays;
* more local community participation in priority setting, design and implementation of the project;
*  need to place greater emphasis on the rural road structures;
* New emphasis on developing river jetties to better integrate inland water transport and road transport;
* need to continue with training and equipment support to small contractors, but at the same time
pushing to increase contract sizes to enhance contractor output and efficiency;
*  early action on land acquisition with suitable compensation procedures;
*  greater emphasis on field-level training and implementation oiF maintenance programs;
*  need to overhaul rural market management and leasing systems with greater user participation
to improve efficiency and increase revenue; and
*  need to strengthen the financial status of local bodies (Unionl Parishads) in ensuring sustainability of
infrastructure maiintece.
x.    All these important lessons have already been incorporated into the preparation and design of the
Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project (RRMIMP-II), which has been
approved by IDA in December 1996 as a follow-up project, and is currently under implementation. This
follow-up project is jointly financed with the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC).



*      ~~~1
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    Bangladesh's population is 80% rural and the agriculture sector employs round 69% of its labour
force directly or indirectdy. Land is the main productive asset in rural areas. Infrastructure plays a vital
role in supporting economic growth in the rural areas of Bangladesh. Currently, Bangladesh has a stock of
5,200 km of National and Regional Highways, 10,500 km of sub-regional roads (feeder Road type A),
16,400 kn of rural Feeder roads Type B, and 102,000 km of rural roads (RI and R2 types). The condition
of these roads, particularly of the feeder and rural road network, is very poor, as most of these roads are
earth-roads aching in drainage structures and open to traffic only in the fair season.
2.    The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has followed a consistent strategy in recent years to
improve rural infrastructure on a selective basis while also improving its highway network, with emphasis
on better itegration of the transport sector investments and policy, and better coordination among
transport agencies, such as the Roads and Highways Department (RHD) dealing with highways, and the
Local Government Engineering Department (LGED) dealing with rural roads. GOB issued a "Strategy for
Rural Development" (SRD) in 1984, which enunciated a ten-year strategy (1985-95) based on focusing
resources to develop "growth centers" with maximum potential for growth in rural areas, selected on the
basis of clearly defined criteria of socio-economic importance and development potential. The SRD also
defined Government's rural infrastructure strategy, directed to help growth-center development as its main
focus. The rural infrastructure strategy as defined in the five-year plns, in line with the above Rural
Development Strategy, has been to focus on improving: (a) Type B feeder roads (FRBs) (also called
growth-center-necting roads) which, by definition, connect selected "growth centers" in sub-districts
(Thana) to thana headquarters or the nearest all-weather road; there were 1,400 "growth centers" in the
country in 1984, selected from among 8,000 rural market centers; (b) selected other rural roads (RI, R2),
which connect villages with growth centers or feeder roads; (c) provision of drainage structures
(culverts/bridges) on important rural roads; and -(d) market structures and facilities in the growth centers.
The "growth-cr-connecting roads" is a good concept in selectivity, this being treated as the core of rural
roads; though classified as FRBs, tiey are mostly earth roads and need upgrading into reasonable minimum
quality stuadards to provide expected service. The ten-year program set physical targets for various rural
infiastructure improvements, sought to be achieved through a series of well-coordinated Rural
Development Projects (RDPs). There were about 8 different RDPs focused on rural infrastructure (some
dealing with needs in particular regions/districts, and others dealing with national and institutional aspects)
funded by different international agencies, including the RRMIMP (called RDP-7) funded by IDA, SDC
and KfW. Most of these projects have been completed, and many agencies (including IDA) have funded
follow-up projects, in view of the growing needs in the sector and the good strategy being followed and
good implementation progress overall, and good performance of the implementation agency, LGED. IDA
Board approved RRMIMP-2 (co-funded with SDC) in December 1996, which is a larger project to be
completed in a shorter time-period reflecting confidence gained through the first RRMIMP.
3.    A recent review by GOBIIDA of the working of this rural development strategy during 1985-95
(see Bangladesh Rural fastructure Strategy Study, published for the World Bank, Dhaka, in 1996) found
that while there was considerable shortfill in reaching the original physical targets of the 10-year program,
the combined achievemet of the projects validated the soundness of the growth center sategy judged fromn
actual results and related regional development data. The review also endorsed the continuation of the
strategy over the next ten years (1996-2005), with minor changes in emphasis or fine-tuning, in order to
mee the revised new and higher targets for rural infrastructure development reflecting additional



2
population and regonal conomc growth. The Government is now continuing with this rural infiaucture
strategy into the future, dutough the Perspective Development Plan for the Country (1995-2010) recently
formulated by the National Planning Commission.
4.    Transport demand in Bangladesh has grown at a much faster rate than GDP since the mid 1970s;
more than 8% per annum for passengers and 6% per annum for freight traffic. A special feature of the
country's traffic pattern is that more than half of it is carried by traditional non-motorised modes, such as
country boats, and nckshaws and riekshaw vans; the road project designs in Bangladesh take account of
this traffic composition.
5.    The Rural Roads and Markets Inprovement and Maintenance Project (RRMIMP) is IDA's first
major investment for the improvement of rural roads with cofinancing from KfW  and SDC and
implemented by the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED). The project aimed at improving
rural infrasucture conditions in eight districts of the Northwest region of Bangladesh and strengthening
the institutional capacity of LGED. The project was completed on June 30, 1997 and has been very
successful in meeting all its physical targets, in establishing good quality standards for road construction
and  mntenance which are replicated nationally through cther follow-up projects, in improvig
maintenance systems, in generating good social and economic impact from the investments, in using local
matenals and expertise, and in enhancing the capacity of LGED and local consultants and contractors. The
project investmts have made significant economic impact in removing rural mobility and marketing
constraints.
Objectives
6.    The objectives of the Project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to:
(a)    promote rural development through the reconstruction, upgrading, and mnainenance of
feeder roads, growth centre markets (GCM) and the construction of structures on rural
roads (SRR) in the project area;
(b)   improve resource mobilisation to support Zila and Upazila maintenance activities;
(c)   strengthen the institutions concerned with the development and maintenance of feeder and
rural roads and markets; and
(d)   rehabilitate roads and associated structures damaged by the 1987 floods while improving
standards to minimise future flood damage.
7.    The project comprised of the following: (a) improvements, upgrading and maintenance of 500 kn
of FRBs in eight districts of Northwest Bangladesh; (b) construction of bndges and culverts on about 650
kn of rural roads; (c) plannig and improvement of infrastructure (including roads and walkways,
drainage, potable water supply, sales platforms and sheds) in 65 (GCM; (d) a new Dhaka headquarters
building for the LGED; (e) rehabilitation of about 650 kn of flood-damaged roads and about 27 km of
related bridges, drainage works, and retaining walls; and (f) project support, including: (i) consultancy
services for design and supervision, monitoring, a mral transport study, fonnulatng a financial plan to
enable districts and sub-disticts to fulfil their maintenance responsibilities, and a study to prepare an
action plan to reduce damage from future floods; (ii) construction equipment and vehicles; (iii) offices,
laboratories and equipment sheds in eight distict headquarters; (iv) incremental administrative
expenditures (salaries, operating expenses of project offices and equipment) for project execution; and (v)
taining of GOB and contctor staff.



3
8.    A special feature of the project was that it mvolved systematic experimntation with differet
technical options, careful monitoring, fecding project experience onto later components, and, most
importantly definition and implementation of institutional arrangements. This was because of the absence
of good standards and specifications existing earlier, and this feature provided good results and nationally
replicable standards which are being used in subsequent projects.
9.    The project area was situated in Rajshahi Division in the north west part of Bangladesh (see Map
29273). It comprised of the three greater districts of Rajshahi, Pabna and Bogra, which are subdivided into
the eight districts of Bogra, Joypurhat, Pabna, Sirajgang, Rajshahi, Nawabganj, Naogaon and Natore. The
project districts covered an area of 17,500 square kilometres in 65 Thanas (previously called Upazlas),
with a combined population of approximately 13.5 million (mid-1985) and an average density of 750 per
square km. The project area is typically a riverine alluvial plain covered by silty and clayey sediments. In
view of the need to evolve new systems, technical standards, procedures and lcal capacity of LGED,
contractors and consulants in planning and implementing rural infrastructure projects on a sustainable
basis, this project was designed, approved and implemented as an experimental project with an
implementation period of seven years, which was subsequently extended to eight years.
Evaluation of Objectives
10.   All the objectives were appropriate, realistic and relevant to support rural development in the eight
districts of Bangladesh. The objectives were consistent with the Government's policy and in line with the
1984 Strategy for Rural Development (SRD). The SRD was designed to achieve its objectives through a
series of rural development projects (RDP), each of which covered at least one or more of the three
following rnain elements: (a) rural infrastructure; (b) minor irrigation drainage and flood control; and/or (c)
production and employment generation components with emphasis on improving opportunities for the rural
poor and destitute women. The project placed emphasis on systematic experimentation with different
technical options, careful monitoring, feeding project experience into design of later project activities and
most importantly defined institutional arrangement for selection criteria for all project activities. Though
the project focused on improving rural infrastructure on a selective basis, it also helped in developing the
country's road network to ensure better integraion of the trnport seor investments and policies.
11.   As notd, all the project components were designed in accordance with GOB's 10-year (1985-95)
infrastructure improvement program under GOB's "Strategy for Rural Development," (see para. 2 above).
This national program was implemented through a series of coordinated projects, of which RRMIMP was
part, and as it turned out, a leading part and trend-setter in new standards and approaches.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
12.   The project concept and design were appropriate for achieving all the agreed objectives, although
some objectives were substantially achieved and others only partially. The project's major objective of
promoting rural development was substantially achieved as the project exceeded all physical targets
expected and agreed at appraisal (pam. 15). The physical objectives were aimed at upgrading and
maintenance of feeder roads, GCMs and SRRs. The objective of implementing cost effective approaches to
design, construction and maintenance was also substantially achieved because the quality of completed
works was found to be very satisfactory and the maintenance management system was improved
significantly.
13.   RRMIMP succeeded to: (a) introduce consistent engineering standards and methodologies for both
project and non-project activities in the project area; (b) build cost-effective road pavements, bituinous
surfacing and resels on existing pavements; and (c) provide drainage structures to fill gaps on feeder and



4
rural roads. The objective of rehabilitating the roads and bridges damaged by the 1987 flood, was
significantly achieved because; (a) rehabilitation of damaged roads and bridges were added after the project
started, and to this effect the development credit agreement was amended on May 24, 1989; (b) all the
agreed works were completed to a satisfactory standard and these works withstood the more severe floods
of 1995. The objective of improving resource mobilisation to support district and sub-district maintenance
activities was partally achieved (para. 19) because the Union Parishads (UP), which are the lowest level of
elected Government in the country, have a weak financial base and were unable to find adequate funding
for mainting the infrastructures under their jurisdiction otn a sustainable basis. At the start of the
project, markets were leased through open auctioning which resulted in low rates due to the influence and
parficipation local muscle men. During the project implementation period, the introduction of standard
tendering system resulted in the increase of market lease rates suibstantially. Under 'this project, community
participation at local level took place partally in the planning and implementation stage of the project;
however, based on this experience the ongoing second rural roads project is being implemented through
active local community participation at all stages of the project.
14.   An overview of the achievement of objectives (summarised in Table 1), is provided below under
the following headings: (i) physical objectives; (ii) institutional development; (iii) financial objectives; (iv)
sector policies; (v) private sector development; (vi) poverty redluction; (vii) environmental objectives and
(vii) gender concerns. The project objectives under items (i) to (iii) were directly targeted under RRMIMP
operation; however the other objectives under (iv) to (vii), although directly not targeted, contributed to
some extent and can be considered as partally achieved. To monitor and evaluate socio-economic impact
of the rural infastructure developed under RRMIMP, a Socio-economic Monitoring and Evaluation
(SEM&E) study was carried out under the project and its findings (para. 40) has clearly demonstrated that
the project area was substantially benefited in terms of its economic development and RRMIMP
significantly contributed to improve the living standards of the rural poor in the project area. Although
substantial number of structures (4,041 meters) on rural roads were constructed under the project, huge
number of gaps still remain on rural roads which need to be bridged in future. Some of the markets
improved under the project were located on river front but jetties were not constructed to improve the
integration of inland water transport with road transport.
15.   Physical Objectives: All the physical objectives were substantially achieved. 497 kms of FRBs
were improved to bituminous standards, compared with 500 km agreed at appraisal. 495 Ian FRB were
upgraded, compared with 200 km agreed at appraisal and 35 (1,079 meters) of bridges were constructed on
FRBs compared with 1,223 meters agreed at appraisal. All the agreed 65 number of GCM were improved
and 4,041 meters of SRR were constructed, compared with 3,705 meters agreed at appraisal. Under the
flood rehabilitation component physical objectives were substantially achieved in all the 28 districts
including: (a) 428 km of road rehabilitation, compared with 399 km agreed at appraisal; and (b) 2,374
meters of bridges rehabilitated compared with 1,798 meters agreed at appraisal. The other physical
objectives, which were achieved are shown in Table 5.
16.   Institutional Development: nstitutional development objectives were substantially achieved on
account of the following remarkable improvements in the functioning of LGED: (i) a computerised
financial mangemnnt system was developed in LGED at its headcluarters and district offices to streamline
its accou and financial management  the project activities; (ii) a SEM&E unit was established and
later in 1992, it was integrated into the project; and (iii) during the first half of the project, audit reports
were not prepared on time and the quality of the reports produced were generally inadequate, and raised a
number of queries when submitted to the office of the Auditor CGeneral. Therefore during the mid-term
review it was decided to appoint private auditors in addition to GOBs regular audit, and their report
concluded that different accounting systems were being followed in different field offices. To overcome
this problem, the auditing and accounting guidelines have been prepared and 149 accounting personnel
were tained, which has resulted in a marked improvement in the accountng system of LGED.



5
17.   Training: The training unit of LGED at headquarters was responsible for co-ordination and
implementation of the traiing programs nation-wide through its 25 regional training centres. The project
contributed to the national training program of LGED by providing funding for all local and foreign
training programs. The variety of courses designed for the staff of LGED focused on road construction,
field surveying, material testing, project monitoring, computerised financial management, and computer
applications. In addition, the project supported the implementation of some project specific training
programs for all levels of LGED staff and contractors. The project also sponsored overseas training
courses, study tours, workshops, and seminars for LGED engineers. In all, the project implemented local
training for 7,837 staff-days and overseas training for 677 staff-days. It helped LGED staff to improve
their technical and managerial skills, which had a positive effect on the quality of work in the field.
18. LGED has built an I 1-storied headquarters building (WED Bhaban), construction of 6 stories of
which was jointly financed by GOB, IDA, KfW and ADB. The LGED HQ buiding provides office space
for all its headquarters staff and most of its project offices. At the time of project start in 1989, the LGED
headquarters staff were spread through five rented buildings, which were originally designed as upper
income apartments, and caused LGED tremendous office accommodation and communication problems
until they moved to the new building in late 1996. The project also financed construction of eight district
offices with ancillary facilities such as soils and material testing laboratories, training units, workshops and
garages. Most of these office complexes now have ample space available, which can be used for other
purposes in future if necessary. The other key institutional improvements are: (a) development of a
comprehensive database on Geographical Information System (GIS) for all the 464 thanas in the country;
(b) development of standardised tender documents and specifications which are now being used in other
rural infrastructure projects; and (c) the methodology followed in the SEM&E study is now being used for
other projects.
19.   Financial objectives: The financial objectives were partially achieved. To mobilise financial
resources of UPs, a study was carried out on "Upazila Financial Planning" with an objective to come up
with recommendations to enhance their capability for financing development and maintenance programmes
from their own resources. Its findings and recommendations are being reviewed and implemented under
RRMIMP-2. The market toll rates were increased effective from April 15, 1996, for eight districts within
the range 11% to 18%, but they were still not sufficient to cover maintenance costs in full.
20.   Sector-Policies: Though the achievement of sector-policy objectives were not specifically targeted
under RRMIMP, the project succeeded to achieve them partially because LGED implemented the following
main policy actions: (a) establishment of a maintenance cell to plan, design, and implement a priority
routine and periodic maintenance program prepared at the Thana level; (b) enhanced co-ordination between
the LGED's proposed Management Information System (MIS) and activities of SEM&E study carried out
under the project; and (c) adoption of consistent engineering standards and technical specifications for both
project and non-project activities in order to ensure adequatq quality control in carrying out bituminous
surfice dressing, resealing of existing pavements, and construction of drainage structures on feeder and
rural roads.
21.   Private Sector Development: Although the objectives of private sector development were not
directly targeted under RRMIMP, the project succeeded in achieving this partially because tramiing was
provided to the contractors in the preparation of item-wise bidding and methodical execution of different
items of road works to improve quality. The work of periodic maintenance was carried out through
contractors and routine maintenance was carried out either through small contracts or by 'lengthman'
system. This provided a good opportunity for the contractors to learn modern techniques and to gain
experience in the construction and maintenance of road works. During the project implementation period,
sizes of road contracts were gradually increased from one km to three km based on contractor's output and
efficiency. With strong remmendations from IDA supervision missions, LGED improved its payment



6
procedures and the time-lag in maing payments to contraors was signficantly reduced from tbree
months to three weeks. However, labour contracting societies did not benefit as much sice their financial
position was found very weak.
22.   Poverty Reduction:  Altugh RRMIMP was not designed as a direct poverty-targeted
intervention, the improved roads and GCMs under the project contributed to a great extent as a
complementary input in delivering transportation services for the poor. The roads helped the rural poor in
the project area in availing the market facilities, schools, health clinics, and other social services. It also
provided benefits to the poor communities in tenns of savings in transportation costs, reduced travel tine
and increased revenue from the users of improved markets. Th-, impact of RRMIMP on employment was
creation of jobs (18,600 person-years) for construction and maintenance of infrastructure, compared with
12,000 person-years anticipated at appraisal.
23.   Environmental Objectives: The Project succeeded im achieving the environmental objectives
partially as the improved road works and GCMs were able to provide significant improvements in the road
drainage and adequate sanitation of markets. The trees planted along the embankaments of improved roads
further enhanced the environment of the project area.
24.   Gender Concerns: The objectives relating to gender concerns were not directly targeted under
RRMIMP; however, the employment of destitute women on road maintenance and in tree plantation
provided a good opportunity for poor women to earn wages and security of continuous paid employment on
future road maintenance works.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
25.   Factors not generally Subject to Government Control: (a) The devastating floods of 1995
damaged some roads and structures which were completed under the project. However the losses were not
major, because the good quality of completed works were able tD withstad the effects of the flood. The
Banglabazar GCM improved under the project was completely washed away by the Jamuna River during
the flood; and (b) the construction season in Bangladesh is limited to about eight months, from mid-October
ton mid-May. This short season makes it expensive for small scale contractors to maintain permanent staff
with technical skills or to acquire and maintain construction equipment.
26.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control: (a) delays in the appointment of design and
supervision consultants; and (b) delays in dealing with land acquiisition.
27.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control: (a) delays in contractor payment;
and (b) no well defined policy in the selection of trainees, particularly for overseas training program.
28.   Cost Changes: The project achieved all its physical and institutional objectives within the
appraisal estimtes and allocated amounts. However there were some cost changes in the sub-components
of land acquisition, improvement of feeder roads, FRB maintenance, GCMs, equipment, training, flood
rehabilitation works and consulting services (able 8A), all of which were easily met out from the
provisions made in the agreed project costs. The cost changes in the sub-components of SRR were
substantial (above 100%) because the expenditure under this component was US$11.6 million, compared
with the ap,praisal esfinutes of US$5.4 million. This was primaily due to the much greater demand for
SRRs than expected. When this component was first started under RRMIMP as a pilot, it created so much
interest among the poor rural communities that it became necessary to provide additional allocation for this
component. ITe additional expenditure under various components were easily met from the provisions of



7
the physical and price contingencies and RRMIMP succeeded to complete all its project objectives without
any cost increases.
29.   Implementation Delays: The credit was signed on July 29, 1988 and was declared effective on
May 5, 1989 after a period of about nine months, because the borrower took a long time in the appointment
of the design and supervision consultants, which was one of the several conditions for credit effectiveness.
Therefore the civil works on feeder roads, SRR and GCMs could not be started until April 1990. As a
result one full construction season was lost. The other reason for this delay was that the contractors were
inexperienced, particularly in using the improved system of bidding procedures and the works schedled to
be completed within one construction season was prolonged to two construction seasons. Some delays also
occurred due to delay in land acquisition for roads caused by complex and lengthy compsaton
procedures. However, after the mid-term review, the situation substantially improved and most of the
contracts were completed within one construction season as scheduled. With the initial delay of one year
and moreover to cover the one year maintenance period liability for the final year contracts, GOB requested
and IDA agreed to extend the Credit closing date (CCD) by one year. i.e. up to June 30, 1997, compared
with the initial CCD of June 30, 1996.
30.   Changes in Project Scope: Because RRMIMP was the first large project in the rural development
sector, there was a condition in the Development Credit Agreement that no proceeds of the credit would be
withdrawn until the Borrower carred out a joint mid-term review of the project performance up to that date
with IDA, KfW and SDC, and agreed on an action plan for the remainder of the project. Accordingly a
mid-term review was carried out during May 1992 and the physical targets were reduced as follows: (a)
improvement of FRBs from 500 km to 350 Im; (b) upgrading of FRBs from the existing HBB or WBM to
bituminous standards, where shown to be uneconomic, and reduced from 200 km to 7 Ian; (c) construction
of SRR from 3,705 meters to 2,583 meters. However, in June 1994 another review of project performance
was carried out, and considenng the fact that the project had gained good momentum and LGED's
institutional capacity was much improved, the physical targets were reset to the ones initially agreed at
project appraisal, also, the target for SRRs was increased to 4,041 meters from 3,705 meters due to greater
demand and projected savings from the other sub-components.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.   The project benefits achieved in providing improved all-weather transport system for about 500 km
FRBs for 47 roads and improved hygienic trading facilities for 65 GCMs, are substantial in tenns of
reducing transport cost, and enhancing marketing facilities. The project has maintained about 800 km of
FRBs during the project period (650 km routine and 150 km periodic maintenance). The sustainability of
the improved rural infrastructure is likely because GOB continues to show a strong commitment in the
planning and implementation of rural infrastructure maintenance program. LGED has already appointed
one Assistant Engineer in each district and one Sub-assistant Engineer in each Thana for maintenance
activities. LGEI) has set up a national maintenance system, which is being further developed under the
follow-up project RRMIMP-2, to ensure its operational efficiency and effectiveness. Currently funds for
mantenance of most rural roads and highways come from Government revenue and some UP revenue, and
the amount collected from the road users through fuel levies and other charges is estimated to be adequate
to cover maintenance needs of the total road network. Recognising the importance of mantenance, GOB
has started allocating funds in the revenue budget for maintenance of rural infrastructure since FY 1992-
93. The budget allocation for maintenance has increased from Tk 300 million in FY 92-93 to Tk 900
million in FY 97-98. GOB has also agreed with IDA under the follow-up project to progressively increase
the annual allocation for rural road maintenance, and GOB is meeting this commitment. Following
RRMIMP-1 initiatives, there is clearly a major change of Governmental attitude and commnitrnent towards
an effecive mainkenance policy and actions.



8
32.   To ensure long-term project sustainability, it is important that the local government resources for
maintenance should increase progressively. Under the follow-up RRMIMP-2, the resource mobilisation at
the UP level has already started with 1% of the land transfer tax allocated to them and by increasing the
authority of UPs. Maintenance of markets is adequately financed by direct user charges levied from market
users. The on-going use and promotion of labour-intensive technology for maintenance with appropriate
hand-tools would make infrastructure maintenance affordable and would enhance sustainabidity. Given that
adequate maintenance funding and arrangements at the national level are already in place, and being further
strengthened under the follow-up projects, the project can be rated as sustainable.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   Identification: The project was identified in 1981, when the GOB made a request to IDA for
financing a RDP aimed at improving rural roads and markets in :3 "old" Zilas comprising 65 upazilas in the
Northwest of Bangladesh. Prelirrinary engineering studies were undertaken by local consultants from July
1983 to April 1985, after which extensive discussions took place between GOB and IDA to ensure that the
project scope was consistent with the institutional capacities of the implementing agencies as well as the
local construction industry. In April 1987, the FAO/World Elank Co-operative programme Investmnent
Centre issued a project preparation report that recommended a project to upgrade 360 km of FRB,
construct 2500m of SRRs and improve 65 markets over an impleDmentation period of 5 years. The project
area, which was selected for RRMIMP, was very appropriate because the Government was implementing a
rural integrated development project in the same area comprising of irrigation, surface water conservation,
pisciculture, afforestation, crop diversification, rural electrification, employment generation and feeder road
improvement program. The flood rehabilitation works were identified in the west of the Jamuna River,
because ADB was considering to finance flood rehabilitation works on the east side of the Jamuna River.
Out of 900 rural markets in the project area, 196 were identifiecl as growth centres, which was used as a
basis to select the priority 65 GCMs for further development. IDA's performance in identification of the
project was satisfactory, because it focused on the country's economic need, and helped to prepare a well
integrated rural development program, which was complementary to the planned development of other
sectors in the project area.
34.   Preparation: IDA's performnance in the preparation of the project can be rated as satisfactory
because it made full use of the studies carried out in November 1987 under a separate UNDP funded and
FAO executed contract, and reviewed the detailed designs and tender documents, which were prepared for
ffie first year work contracts. The project design was appropriate to achieve its objectives through a rural
infrastructure component and a flood rehabilitation componeni:. The rural infrastructure component
included improvement, upgrading, and maintenance of feeder roads, rural roads, growth centre markets and
project implementation support in the form of design and supervision consultants, incremental project staff,
vehicles and equipment and office and laboratory facilities in the project area. The rural infrastructure
components involved systematic experimentation with different technical options, careful monitoring,
feeding project experience into design of later components and most importantly the definition and design of
institutional arangements for project implementation. During credit negotiations a criteria for selection of
rural infrastructure projects was agreed and it was adequately followed during project implementation. To
ensure adequate and timely attention to the institutional issues, 70% of disbursement on rural infrastructure
works was made dependant upon a successful evaluation of experience during a formal mid-term review
before the end of Year 3.
35.   Appraisal: The Bank reviewed the project prepared by the consultants in close consultation with
implementing agencies and co-financiers (KfW and SDC) durirg the appraisal. The appraisal team
comprised of IDA and KfW staff and the skill mix of the specialists was appropriate. The need for
carrying out a major review was very thoughtful and provided the borrower, IDA and co-financiers a good



9
opportuity to review project performance and helped to amend the scope of work (pam. 30). During
appraisal the three najor risks were correctly identified and adequate arrangements were made for their
mitigation: (a) the risk of institutional inertia from obstructing necessary changes in design and
maintenance practices was mitigated with the appointment of design and supervision consultants; (b) the
risk of project complexity was reduced by having separate management of the rural infrastructure and flood
rehabilitation components; and (c) te risk of basic uncertainties regarding optimal technical solutions,
institutional arrangements and financial capacities was correctly nitigated by carrying out intensive
monitoring, close supervision and a joint mid-term review of the project. Given that the project had severl
sub-components, adequate attention was not paid in defining the training programn during the appraisal and
as a result the selection of candidates were based on ad hoc decisions and no refined policy on selection
criteria for the trainees could be decided during the course of the project implementation. In general the
Bank performance in appraisal of the project can be rated as satisfactory.
36.   Supervision: The quality of Bank supervision was very professional, objectively oriented and
based on understanding of the borrowers institutional capabilities and needs and on the basis of IDA
policies and procedures. During project implementation, the IDA/Borrower relationship was beneficial and
productive. Both the parties responded very positively to the practical needs tat arose during
implementation. Implementation problems were correctly identified, adequately assessed and appropriate
performance ratings in the supervision Forn 590 were provided. Credit covenants were complied with.
Sufficient and timely advice was given to the implementing agencies and follow up actions were more than
adequate. The timing of supervision missions were appropriate and the time spent in the field was
sufficient. On the whole, the Banks perfonnance in supervision was highly satisfactory both in quality and
quantity, because: (a) it took timely actions in carrying out mid-term review and correctly amended the
scope of project activities; and (b) to assess the project's impact and effectiveness, IDA carried out a
SEM&E study at an appropriate time, which did not focus only on the main component of FRB but
evaluated the impact of the project in terms of all social and economic aspects. The findings and
recommendations of the SEM&E study (para. 40) were found very useful in the -preparation, design and
implementation of the follow-up RDPs.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   Preparation: The project was identified and prepared jointly by the GOB, LGED, RHD and IDA
with the support of consultants. The borrowers performance in providing the technical data, formulation of
the project components and reviewing the project proposal with respect to technical, economical and
implementation arrangements was satisfactory. All the sub-components were selected and designed so as to
ensure that they fit well within project objectives and were economical to construct and maintain. The
selection criteria was agreed separately for the improvement of FRB, upgrading of FRBs, structures on
rural roads and GCM. The key criteria for improvement and upgrading of FRBs was, inter-alia; that: (a)
the investment must yield an economic rate of return of at least 12%; (b) priority was given to those FRBs
which connected growth centres improved under the project but so far did not have all-weather access; and
(c) the land required for widening and raising was under the legal possession of GOB before the start of the
construction. The key criteria for selecting SRR was: (a) that they were located on roads under a specific
maintenance program; (b) upazilas contributed 7% of their costs and payment of the upazila's share of the
estimated cost for one year's work was made before calling tenders; and (c) they were on roads which were
connected with FRBs and/or markets improved under the project. The key criteria for selection of GCMs
was that: (a) the estimated economic benefits from the improvements exceeded the costs of improvement
and maintenance; (b) the markets were already on all-weather access; (c) the upazilas had agreed to finance
7% of the costs of the improvements from it's own resources and the payment was made before calling
tenders; and (d) the upazilas had agreed to seek an increase in tolls charged to users of the improved
markets and the Government had approved the proposed increase. The Project Proforma, which is a



10
mandatory requirement for all GOB's project, and was a condition for the credit effectiveness, was timely
approved by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC). In general, the
borrower's performance in preparation of the project was satisfactory.
38.   Implementation: The rural infritructure development component was implemented by LGED
and the flood rehabilitation component was implemented by both RHD for works on main roads, and by
LGED for works on FRBs and rural roads. A separate Project Implementation Office (PIO) was
established within LGED, which was supported by the design and supervision consultants. The PIO was
responsible for preparing annual work programs and budgets, engage consultants and other staff, procure
equipment, supervise project implementation, manage project accounts and report to IDA. The PIO was
responsible for ensuring that the project components were selected consistent with the agreed selection
criteria. The Project Director (PD), who was the head of the PIO, was assisted by 8 Executive Engineers
based in each district and 65 Thana Engineers. The PD was also assisted by the headquarters staff
assigned to the PIO. A District Road Development Committee l(DRDC) was established in each district
and was responsible for final selection of road .segments and for co-ordination of improvement, upgrading
and maintenance works. At the initial stage, quality control work was mostly done by consultants;
however, as LGED staff became trained, this responsibility was gradually taken over by the LGED staff
and was satisfactorily performed with assistance and advise from the Consultants. Some of the markets
selected did not have sufficient land to accommodate the planned developments and as a result new markets
had to be taken up for improvement. The performance of the contractors and consultants, closely
monitored by the LGED, was found to be generally satisfactory. The availability of GOB counterpart
funding was satisfactory and the implementing agencies showed adequate commitment in compliance of the
major credit covenants. The implementing agency complied with IDA guideline on procurement and
disbursement though there were some delays in submission of awdit reports. In general, the borrower's
performance can be rated as highly satisfactory, because the works completed were of satisfactory quality
and despite initial delays, the project succeeded to complt all physical targets within the approved costs.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   The project has achieved most of its major objectives. ]t has fully met all its physical targets
within the original cost estimates, substantially met its institutional objectives (in achieving a sustainable
maintenance system with assured and adequate maintenance budget and an acceptable maintenance
strategy; in ensuring good quality standards in.roads design, imylementation and supervision, which is
getting replicated on a national scale; in incorporating a Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation
system as a part of the project and of the implementing agency (IGED) organisation; in strengthening
LGED as an efficient agency for project design and management; and in considerably strengthening local
contractor capacity which is now able to take up larger contracts under the follow-up project).
40.   The project has also achieved fully its socio-economic objectives in increasing rural mobility,
reducing rural transport costs, in improving markets and reducing marketing costs; and in creating rural
employment for the poor. Besides significantly reducing the transportation costs on improved and
upgraded roads, the project also contributed in reducing travel time and providing good riding quality, both
for motorised and non-motorised traffic. The construction of structures on rural roads showed a
remarkable achievement in improving accessibility because the rural roads were constructed in the past
under the food for work program but the culverts were not constructed and gaps were left in between: The
sub-component of SRR greatly helped to fill these gaps and improved accessibility. Motorised and non-
motorised traffic increased significantly on improved roads, whichi brought a great relief for the poor
nckshaw puller in terms of both financial income as well reduced physical fatigue. Due to inprovement of
GCMs, spoilage in marketing of perishable goods decreased, and it helped to increase the income of the
market users. High quality of improved roads helped in reducing their maintenance costs. Tree plantation



11
on both sides of the improved roads and surfacing of the unpaved roads, reduced dust and improved the
environment of the project area, while also giving regular employment to poor women (who are employed
to take care of these trees, one person per Iam). Given the full or substantial achievemens of all the
physical targets both in terms of quantity and quality, and the instutional and economic objectives of the
project, the overall assessment of the project outcome can be rated as very satisfactory.
41.   Economic Re-evaluation: The econonic re-evaluation, after the project was complete, indicated
that the project outcome is highly satisfactory because the average economic internal rate of return (EIRR)
for 40 of the 47 comnpleted roads studied under the feeder road conponent is estimated at 26% (Table 9A),
compared with its average 25% estimated at appraisal, and the average EIRR for the completed GCMs
component is esfimated at 31% (Table 9-B), conpared with its (10%) estimated at appraisal. Assuming
similar returns from road iunprovements under SRR (structures on rural roads) and the roads under flood
rehabilitation component, the cost coverage related to feeder road component is providing the above level of
economic return is about 720/o, and that related to GCM about 5%. The economic re-evaluation is based on
findings of the SEM&E study which was carried out under the project and completed in May 1997. The
key objective of this study was to monitor and evaluate socio-economic effects of the rural infrastructure
which were developed under the project in the eight districts. The SEM&E study evaluated the effects of
40 selected rural roads and 10 GCMs (a total of 47 FRBs and 65 GCMs were developed) through
estimating EIRR by comparing pre-development and post-development status of the rural roads and
markets along with a series of other specific indicators. In addition to the EIRR estimates which are based
on quantifiable partial benefits, the SEM&E study concluded that the development of rural roads and
markets has generated several positive impacts, which can be easily reflected in the following general
pattern: (a) development of rural roads generated substantial increase in the total movement of goods and
persons. On improved roads the volume of both passenger and goods traffic increased significantly (with
about 70 % increase in ton-kan of freight carried and 170% in passenger-km, one year after road
improvement); (b) on improved roads, unit transport charges for goods and passengers decreased
substantially (about 60% reduction in motor vehicle charges on a sarnple of improved roads, and about
30% reduction in non-motorised vehicle charges); (c) stimulated the operation of bus service for the first
ime on many improved roads that brings in many social benefits, including better access to health
facilities, schools, and extension services; (d) generated significant new employment opportunities for the
poor (created an estimated 18,600 for the construction and improvement works, as against 12,000
estimated at appraisal), and about 500 regular positions in future maintenance; indirect employment effects
have been estimated at about 5,000 full-time jobs in markets, new road-side shops, and transport services);
(e) losses due to spoilage or quality deterioration for perishable items such as fish, meat, eggs, milk,
vegetables, etc. decreased significantly; (f) the lease value (bid price for running markets) and toll revenue
(from traders) in the markets went up significantly; (g) new shops and commercial activities started up
around the markets; (h) cost of the land near the market increased significantly; and (i) the markets became
more efficient, more hygienic - for example with better drainage and toilet facilities and hygienic slaughter
houses in lieu of open places for slaughter of animals for meat; busier, and more active commercial centres
facilitating rural economic growth in both fann and non-farm sectors.
42.   The SEME studies under the project have resulted in good models for impact studies involving
predominantly non-motorised transport; these reports currently provide good guidance for future impact
studies in Bangladesh. A separate exercise is currently under way (under the follow-up project) to review
the massive socio-economic surveys conducted under RRMIMP, and to prepare a concise report on "rural
infiastructure impact," after screening the many case studies under the project; the resulting report would
be published for international use.



12
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
43.   Since most of the civil works covered under RRMIM  included improvement of FRBs,
construction of drainage structures on feeder roads and rural roads, construction of GCMs and periodic
maintenance on existing feeder and rural roads, no formal plan of operation was established. However to
ensure routine and periodic maintenance of the improved roads is appropriately undertaken, LGED is
currently implementing IDA financed RRMIMP-2, which includes, inter-alia, a substantial component on
road maintenance and capacity building. The component of road maintenance under RRMIMP-2 attaches
great importance to building an adequate maintenance management system in the country based on best
practice and techniques. LGED maintenance budget has increased progressively from Taka 300 million
(US$7.5 million) in 1992/93 to Taka 900 million (US$22.5 million) in 1997/98. A Rural Infrastructure
Maintenance Cell (RMIC) was established within LGED in 1992, and since then it has made considerable
progress in establishing the framework for road maintenance by setfing up a road inventory database,
introducing national maintenance guidelines, and establishing a b-aining program.
44.   The other main source for funding maintenance of rural roads is the CIDA/CARE road
maintenance program, which is designed as a poverty-alleviation program for destitute women. To
complement and support its efforts for setting up an effective, planned periodic maintenance system,
RRMIMP-2 would finance: (a) technical assistance for setting up and designing an effective and efficient
management system in the selected area; (b) provide 50% of the periodic maintenance costs in the project
area on a declining percentage basis over the implementation period, starting at 80% in the first three years
and decreasing to 30% in the last two years. This assistance would be provided in co-ordination with
RIMC's program and other ADB financed inputs for maintenance strengthening. The resource base for
UPs has also been expanded by giving them 1% of the land transfer fee which will increase their financial
capability to improve and maintain rural infrastructure. 50% lease value of markets is now going to UPs
instead of previous 40%. Leasing threshold for UP managed markets has been increased from Tk 50,000
to Tk 100,000. Given that LGED has made all necessary arrangemnents including technical planning and
budgetary provisions to carry out the maintenance of roads, structures and GCMs, and IDA has a follow-
on project RRMIMP-2, there is no need for a specific future plan of operation for RRMIMP.
i. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
45.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
*  To facilitate effective project implementation, it is advisable to start bidding process for civil works
before project start, and appoint design and supervision consultants before Credit approval so as to
avoid delays;
*  For the success of rural infrastructure development projects, it is important to ensure active local
cOMmunity participation at all project stages including priority setting, site selection, plannng,
design, implementation, quality control and measuring the impact of completed project;
*  To enhance all-weather accessibility of rural roads, it is necessary to place greater emphasis on the
construction of drainage structures on rural roads;
* To improve transport and trading system in rural areas where seasonally navigable waterways
prevail, it is important to develop river jetties to ensure adequate integration of inland water
transport and road transport;



13
. To develop small scale contractors, the continued training and equipment support plays an
important role, and at the same time gradual increase in contract size is necessary to promote
contractors' output and efficiency;
* An early action on the preparation of land acquisition action plan, simplified compensation
procedures, and timely compensation payment to land owners, can substantially reduce the project
completion time;
*  An effective mid-term review can make the project flexible with all physical targets achieved in
phases along with gradual capacity building of the borrowing agency;
*  Restructuring growth center market management and its leasing systems with greater user
participation, can prove helpful to improve efficiency and increase revenue for UP-managed
markets; and
* To ensure sustainability of rural infrastructure maintenance, it is critical to strengthen the
financial status of local bodies (UPs) and to make them accountable for maintenance success.






14
PART-II
Stadstical Information
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements : Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9A:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9B:    Economic Costs and Benefits Markets
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions






15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of objectives          Substantial .  Partial       Negigbl    Not applicable
(/)          (V)            (/)            (/)
Macroeconomics policies                D            0              0              0
Sector policies                        1            0              0              0
Financial objectives                                0                            0
Institutional development                           0              0              0
Physical objectives                                 0              0              0
Poverty reduction                      O            00 O                          0
Gender concerns                        O      0                    0              0
Other social objectives                0            03             0
Environmental objectives               0                           0              0
Public sector management               0                           0              0
Private sector development             0                           0              0
Other (specify)                        0            e0                            0
B.   Project sustainabilit                    Likely            Unlikely          Uncertain
(/)               (1)                (I")
El    ~      00
C.   Bank verformance                         Highly
satisfactory      satisfactory        Deficient
(I)                                  V) (  )
Identification                                      0                           0
Preparation assistance                    O0                                    0
Appraisal                                 0         0                           0
Supervision                               0                  2l                 0
D.   Borrower performance
satisfactorv      satisfactory        Deficient
(/)               (")                   )
Preparation                               0                                     0
Implementation                            0                                     03
Covenant compliance                       0                  21                 0
Operation (if applicable)                 O0                                    0
E.   Assessment of outcome                 Hiv                                         IMy
satis fir   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
0/           0/ 0/                          /



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan / credit dtle             Purpose              Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations                Nil
Following operations
RRMIMP-2              Inprovement of feeder  roads,          1997            On going.
growth centre markets, small river
jetties and their maintenance.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in projet cycle                Date    ed              Date actual
Identification                                                      1981
Preparation                                  _                      1983-87
Appraisal                                   l__   _________Sept. 21-Oct. 15, 1987
Negotiations                               r                        May 23-27, 1988
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                  June 24, 1988
Signing                                                            July 29, 1988
Effectiveness                                                       May 05, 1989
First tranche release (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release
(if applicable)
Project completion                                                  June 30, 1997
Loan closing                                                        June 30, 1997



17
Table 4: Loan I Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and
Actual
(USS thousands)
FYf  I PfFY    17Y     FY       FY       FY       FY      FY      FY       FY
U8-89  89-90   90-91   91-92   92-93    93-94    94-95   95-96   96-97    97-98
Applaisal       5,800  9,400  30,100  38,500  44,500  51,800   58,900  62,300  -
esfimate
Actual                 8,638   14,420  22,251  28,353  33,946   43,562 *51,598  56,120  57,900
Actual as % of         91.89  47.91   57.79   63.71   65.53    73.96   82.82   90.01   92.94
esfimate              I
Date of final   Oct. 31, 1997
disbursement
*Source of actual Disbursement: Local Government Engineering Department (LGED)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(i) Key Implementation
Indicators in
SAR/President's Report                   Estimated                         Actual
01. FRB Improvermnt               500 Km.                         496.85 Km.
02. FRB Upgrading                200 Km.                          495.72 Km (l
03. Bridges on FRBs               1223 m. (PP)                    1079 m.
35 Nos.
04. Markets                      65 Nos.                          65 Nos.
05. SRRs                         3705 m.                          4041 m.
06. Maintenance                   1867 Km.                        400.78 Km.
07. Tree Planftaion              500 Km.                          398.89 Km.
08. Flood Component:
i) Roads                  399.04 Km.                       428.19 Km.
ii) Bridges               1797.04m.                        2373.86m.
iii) Drainage             21776.00 m.                      17505.00 m.
iv) Retaing               3001.00 m.                       2215.63 m.
09. LGED HQ Building              1 No: 6 Storied Building        Completed
10. Functional Buildings         6 Nos.                           8 Nos.
(i)    During appraisal it was estimated that 110 Km. would be upgraded firom HBB to WBM to B.C and 90 Km. would be
bituminous carpeted directly. Finally in order to protect the pavement and the environmental from dust hazard all 495.72Km
bituminous surfaced.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Prciject Operation
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                . . . .   . . .   . . . ..   - ,  . . . .
Maintenance                 There   were   no   indicators  Routing Maintenance responsibility is taken by Rural
established   at  the  time   of  Infrastruture Maineace   Cell (RlMC) of LGED,
appraisal.                         Periodic Maintenance would be done under RRMIMP-2.
Maintenance budget has been increased 3 times in 1997-
_                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~98 from lhat of 1992-93.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
.. . . . .   ..     .............   .     .............    =H=.==.===.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,.                   .     .......     ....             .................   .,,-,,,,,......... .....
1. Socio- Ecooic Monitonng and         To deternuine Socio-Economist   Completed in 1997   Project interventions have
Evaluation (SEME) Study              Clumge.                                              made significant short
term socio-Economic
benefit; investmnent have
shown high Economic
2. Rural Transport Study               Investment strategy             C'ompleted in 1994   Useful for appropriate
investment
3. Financial Planning Study for Upazila   To assess mobilisation of local  Completed in     In line with the finding of
Parishad                             resource                               1992          the study, steps have been
taken to augment local
resource .
4. Disaster Assessment and Emergency   Priority ascertain     'Completed in                 Found usefull in taking
1995          appropriate measures in
disaster management
within the project area.
5. Financial Management Study and      Improve Financial                  Completed in      Found useful in Financial
Private Audit                        Mnagement System and                   1997          management and auditing.
maintain proper system of
Accounting
6. Study of Follow-up                  To prepare a new Project           Completed in      A Pr,oject of similar nature
1996          has been launched .
7. Impact Study                        To determine the Impact of the     Completed in       Significant short/long term
project to the society                1992          Impact on the society have
been observed.
.. . . . . . .. .   . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .   .   . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . .     . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . . .



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Si.         Item            Local    Foreign             Local    Foreign
No.                         costs     costs     Total     costs     costs    Total
01. L and Acquisition        1.1       0.0       1.1     2.220     0.000     2.220
02. FRB Improvement         20.7       5.2      25.9     26.41      6.61     33.05
03. FRB Upgrading            4.6       1.2       5.8      2.69      0.67      3.36
04. Tree Plantation          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.32     0.000      0.32
05. FRB Maintenance          3.0       0.6       3.6      0.64      0.16      0.80
06. Growth Centre            4.5       1.5       6.0      3.22      0.80      4.02
07. SRR                      4.3       1.1       5.4      8.85      2.21     11.06
08. Lab & Office Building    0.0       0.0       0.0      0.56      0.14      0.70
09. Equipment                0.5       1.4       1.9      2.80      0.70      3.50
10. Training                 0.5       0.2      0.8       0.30      0.08     0.38
11. Other (Addl. M.P + O&M)    3.0     1.1      4.1       2.99     0.000     2.99
12. LGED HQ Building         1.0       0.7       1.7      1.62      0.41     2.03
13. Consultancy - Main       3.9       3.2      7.1       5.86      4.80     10.66
14. Consultancy-Flood        0.7       0.3      1.1      0.661     0.000     0.661
15. Consultancy - HQ         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.270     0.000     0.270
16. Flood Rehabilitation
Works                 12.5      3.2       15.7     12.94     3.24      16.18
Goods                  0.4      0.3       0.6      0.17      0.16      0.330
17. Base Line:
Physical Contingency.  6.0      1.8       7.8       1.50     0.97      2.47
Price Contingency      7.4      2.3       9.7      0.000     0.000     0.000
Total Costs               74.3     23.9      98.3     74.05     20.95     95.00



20
Table 8B: Project Financing
Apprai  estimate  S$M)       Aal I aest estimale (US$M)
Source             Loc       Foreign              Local    Foreign
costs     costs     Total      costs     costs     Total
IBRD/IDA                      46.3       15.9      62.3      43.30     14.60      57.90
Cofinancing institutions (KfW)    10.3   3.8       14.2      12.18      1.33      14.06
(SDC)    4.8        3.8        8.6      5.65       4.47      9.84
Other external sources
Domestic contribution          13.2       -        13.2       13.2       -        13.2
Total                       74.60     23.50      98.30     74.37     20.44      94.81
Table 9A: Economic Costs iand Benefits
(For Feeder Road Tylpe B)
District    Length   No. of Roads       Cost                 EIRR (/O)
l______                  __ (hn)      (Taka in million)_
Appraisal  Re-evaluation
___ __  _Rang__ _  Rage    Mean
Rajshahi       83.4          7             212.3                    16-54     27
Naogaon        54.3          5             149.9                    16-31     21
Natore         39.1          5             90.2                     20-45     34
Nawabganj      45.1          5             106.7                    13-36     24
Pabna          43.1          2             97.8                     17-47     32
Sirajganj      40.1          5             127.7                    14-25     18
Bogra          81.6          7             214.7                    15-62     28
Joypurhat      71.8          4             130.7                    17-31     25
(average)                           .               _    25                   26



21
Table 9B: Economic Costs and Benefits
For Growth Centre Market
Improvement Cost
Name of Market         District       (Taka in million)               EIR  (%)
Appraisal        Re-evaluation
Charghat               Rajshahi             2.42                                    22
Bonpara                 Natore               3.43                                   32
Malanchi                Natore              2.45                                    23
Sujanagar               Pabna               8.59                                    84
Jamtail                 Sirajganj            2.56                                   23
Kahaloo                  Bogra               3.87                                   36
Pnachbibi              Joypurhat             3.63                                   31
Badalgachi             Naogaon               1.93                                   18
Shibganj              Nawabganj             2.55                                    21
Borgachi              Nawabganj              1.98                                   17
Average                                                          10                 31



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
0 0 0 0 it tXA >'g' ': ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                    ....  ...
DCA       3.01 (a)      05          C    CGOEI oommitled to objectives and
to plDViing appropriate means.
3.01 (b)      05         C                                GOEI to execute in accordance            Done
with Impementation Scbedule
(S^due M).
3.01 (c)      05         C                               GOEI to follow agreed criteria in        Done
selwdiouldesipn subcpont.
3.02 (a)      10         C                                GOB to engage consultants with           Done
-iifcy qualsfications,
expuience, terms of reference,
(Schidule 3) for Part A in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
3.02 (b)      10         C                               GOB to engage conutants with             Done
qualification, experience and terns
of reference s actory to IDA for
Part E3 (flood repair).
4.01 (a)      01         C                                GOB to keep adequate project    Accounts satisfactory,
accounts                        computerised Accouting
System has been prepared
and is now under
operatio-.
4.01 (b)      01         C      03/31/91                  GOB to submit audited accounts 9   GOB submitted audit
nmontts after end of fiscal year  report which was
prepared in old format
Accredited private
auditors have since been
appointed for accounts
fron 1994-95. They
have submitted report for
1994-95, 1995-96.
1996-97 audit report is
under preparatiorL
4.01          01         C                               GOB to naintain records for
SOEs, retain copies until I year
after last withdrawal, ensure SOEs
covered in annual audit
6.01          05         C      10/27/1988   05/05/89    Effectiveness Conditions
1.3 (b)       10         C                               GOB to adopt: (a) system for     (a) Being complied with
feeder road maintenance; (b) plan    on a continuing basis; (b)
for finang feeder road          Allocation for
maintenance; (c) system for     maintenance expenditure
monitoring local govenment road   is provided in the revenue
and nmrket activities; (d) design  budget; (c) Staff deployed
and colsruction of standards for    to monitor activities, (d)
feeder .md rural roads; and (e) plan  Done and (e) Done.
of actice for rest of project,
satisfactory to IDA. (All
conditions for disbursement over
SDR 8 m on Category 1 (a) (rural
infrastructure civil works).
1.3 (c)       10         C      06/30/90     01/31/93    GOB to carry out study and       Financial Plan produced;
financial plan for LGEDHQ's     IDAlADB/KfW/GOB
(disburement condition for the  have agreed to finance the
LGED HQ Component, Part A9).   building amounting to
__ __ __ _  __ __ _  __ __ __ __ __ _  __ __ __ __ _ _ _  _US$2.2  millionL



23
sch. m          10        c                            Prouaent ICB goods imit
$200,000; pnzdest shopping
$25,000/500,000; minum flood
works paages Ik Imn for LGED
and RHD reap.; IDA review of wodk
conracts graer than $200,000 and
first contma of each type; GOB to
provide 2 copies confirmed contacs
(ex. SOEs) 15% variation_
Sah. IV.1       10        C      03/31/92   05/28/92   GOB to caiy out projed in          Coniplied with
acordance with Implmentation
Schedule to be agreed wihh IDA
annuly by March 31.
S&  IV.2        04        C                            GOB to enne upazils centribute
_______  _______    _____  ______    ______    70  cots of nal improvemet
SiL IV.3        02        C                            GOB to cime zilas: (a) recover coas
of EQ in raeals (b) maintain separate
accounts for EQ rental/expenses.
Sch IVA         02        C                            GOB to ensure upazilas increase    District Administration has
market tolls on improved markets in    rised toll rates in all
accordance with schedule to be agreed   districts starting fromn April
with IDA.                          15, 1996 (Bengali New
_______   ________   ______   _______   ______                               ~~~~ ~~~~~~year).
Sch. IV.5(a)    09        C      03/31/91   03/31/92   GOBto fishiislDAwith assessment   GOB submitted assessment
of project performance to date and  in April and Nov. 1994.
draft action plan for remainder of  Second major project
project.                          review done in May 1994.
Sch. IV.S(b)    10        C      06/30/91   05/31/92   GOB to review action plan with     GOB submitted asessment
donor__                           in Aprl and Nov. 1994.
Second major project
_________  _______  ________                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~review done in May 1994.
Sch. IV.6       10        C                            GOB to issue no tender documents for  Complied with
civil works until consultants are
engaged and have reviewed tender
documents.
*Zovenant TyDes:
1        =         Accouns/audits                                  7         =        Involuntary resettlemaet
2        =         Fina     perfmance/revenue geeration            8         =         Indigenous people
firom beneficiaries                             9                  Monitoring, review and
reporting
3        =         Flow and utilisation of project funds           10                  Project implementation not
covered by categories 1-9
4        =         Counterpart fund                                11        =         Sectoral; cross- sectoral
budgetary or other resource
allocation
5        =         Management aspects ofthe project or             12        =        Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
regulatory/institutional action
6        =         Environmental covenants                         13        =         Other
Present Status:
C        -         Complied with
CD       -         Complied after delay
NC       -         Not Complied with
Soon     -         Compliance expected in reasonable short timne
CP       -         Complied with Partially
NYD      -         Not yet due.



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significance lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational Manual!
Statement (OD or OP/BP) was noticed.
Table 12: Bank Resources : Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle      Plamned                 Revised                Actual
_  Weeks       US$       Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal                                                          68.3      100.1
Appraisal - Board                                                          64.4      105.0
Board - effectiveness ]
Supervision       1                                                      273.3       438.1
Conpletion                                                                  1.3         1.0
Total                                                                    407.3       644.2



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stwae of projet       Mouth       Numbe of      Days in       Specblised stanills     I           Deelop-    Tpes of
Cycle               erw        Perm)ons      field            rWeirsetd            tatiori     mast       Ptoben
-                       field ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dta    fmpd
Tbrough                     1981
appraisl                      to
1987
Apprs]'a1        _         Sept.'87        3           25        TE, FS, TE                 .             - 
Board
approva
Boarfd                     'eb..           1            14       TE 
val
Ieff                        :'Uu CL8        221                   T,S
Supervision                OCt.'89         2            13       TE, HE                        3          1           m
Apr.'90        3            6        TE, HE, DO                    3           1          I
Sept.'91       2             8        TE,TS                        2           1           M
Feb.'92        3            5        TE,HE,TE                      2           1           M
May'92         5            19       TE,TS, TS, DO, HE             I           I           m
Nov'92         4            13       TS, TE, HE,TS                 1           I           C
June'93        2            10       TS, HE                        2           1           C
Nov.'93         4           14        TS, TE,HE, AR                2           2           C
Feb.'94        3            19       TS, TS, TE                    2           2           C
May'94         4            1 7       TS,TE i,TSHE                 S           S           C
Nov.'94        3             9        TS, TIE,HE                   S           S          C,M
Feb.'95        2            12       OS, TE                                    --
May'95         4             8       TS, HE, HE, TE-                                       -
(paitiai
Nov.'95         4           14        TS, TE, HE, TE               S           S          C.M
May,96         2            6        TE, HE                        S           S          C,M
Completin                  June'97         4            8        TE, HE. HE. US                S          S-
Notes:
Ratings:           Mlinor Problem: 1; Moderate Problenm 2; Major Problem: 3
Highy Satifactory, HS; Satisfactoy: S; Umsatisfactory: U; Hfighly Unisatisfactory: HU
Specializatioa     Transport Economust: TE; Highway Enpiwer: HE; Transpoft SpecahisL TS; Disbursemnent Specialist: Do
Operations Specialist: OS; Urban Speialist: US; Architect: AR, Finanial Specialibu FS
Problem.:          Finacia Problem: F; Managemnwt Problem: M; Covenant Problent C






26
ANNEX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
TO THE ICR






27
ANNEX-A
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO 1940-BD
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT RURAL DEVELOPMENT
AND CO-OPERATIVES
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DIVISION



28
INTRODUCTION:
1.   The economy of Bangladesh is overwhelmingly rural and dependent on Agriculture.
More than 80% of its 120 million people live in the rural areas most of which are directly or
indirectly connected with activities linked with agriculturn. Achievement of higher agriculture
growth through cheap agriculture input and improved and hygienic marketing facilities is one of
the main policy of the Govemment of Bangladesh. Keeping this in view the Planning
commission of Bangladesh initially selected over 1400 rnarkets out of more than 6000 rural
markets as Growth Centres. These numbers were increased to over 2100 at a later stage.
These Growth Centres are to act as centre of rural development which will have better trading
facilities like covered multipurpose shed, fish shed, meat shed, open space pavement, paved,
intemal roads, drains, toilets to provide improved hygienic atmosphere for trading and office
building for market management. Introduction at low cost year round access to these Growth
Centres is one of the important component of the strategy, for Rural Development (SRD) of the
Govemment of Bangladesh.
2.    With this view the Rural Roads and Markets improvement and Maintenance Project
(RRMIMP) was designed with finance from the World Bank, KfW, SDC and GOB. Separated
agreement were signed each of the donors. Credit 1940 - BD with IDA was signed on 29 July
1988.
3.    The parameters which this report includes are:
(i)   An assessment of the project objectives, design implementation and operation
experence
(ii)  an evaluation at the borrowers own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project
(iii)  an evaluation of the Bank and the Co-financiers
ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPERATION EXPERIENCE
ASSESSMENT OF THE OBJECTIVE:
The objective of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were:
(a)  to promote rural development through the reconstruction, upgrading and
maintenance of feeder roads, growth centre markets and the construction of
structures on rural roads in the project area;
(b)  to implement cost effective approaches to designs, construction and
maintenance of these components within resource constraints
(c)  to improve resource mobilisation to support Zila and Upazila maintenance
activities
(d)  to strengthen the institution concerned with the development and maintenance
to feeder and rural roads and markets and



29
(e)  to rehabilitate roads and associated structures damaged by the 1987 floods
while improving standards to minimise flood damage
To achieve these objectives the Project comprised of the following Component:
(a)  improving, maintaining, and upgrading 500 km of Type B feeder roads including
bridges and drainage structures;
(b)   constructing bridges and culverts on about 650 km of rural roads;
(c)   master planning and improving infrastructures in 65 growth centre markets;
(d)   providing project support in the form of consultants, project staff, vehicles and
equipment, and office and laboratory facilities in the project area; and
(e)   constructing a new headquarters building for the LGED.
Evaluation of Obiectives
The project was in line with Strategy for Rural Development" (SRD) published by the Planning
Commission of Bangladesh in January 1984. The Strategy for Rural Development (SRD) was
designed to achieve higher agriculture growth rate through cheaper agriculture inputs and
ease in marketing agriculture outputs through a series of project each of which was to cover at
least one or more of the three following main elements:
(a)   Rural Infrastructure
(b)   Minor Irrigation drainage and flood control
(c)   Production  and  employment component with emphasis on  improving
opportunities for the rural poor and women.
Physical components of the project like improvement of 500 km of FRBs which connects
Growth Centres, improvement of 65 Growth Centres one in each of the project Thanas and
construction of more than 4000 m structures on Rural Roads were all aimed at improving the
Rural Infrastructure.
Use of local labour force in the construction of the said physical components and use of
destitute women in maintenance of roads and trees addressed the third component of SRD.
4.    The objective of resource mobilisation to support Zila and Upazila maintenance
activities was included to achieve sustainable infrastructure development. The project was to
identify existing and potential resources at District and Thana level which could be utilised for
maintenance of the developed infrastructure. A study was carried out under the project on
"Upazila Financial Planning" for that purpose. But with the change of Govemment the
emphasis was shifted to Union level from Upazila level and no effective use could be made of
the study. With the change of Government in 1996 emphasis is again being given on the
Thanas as focal point of development. Thus the study could be utilised in RRMIMP-2 to help
find ways of resource mobilisation to support maintenance activities at local level.
5.    Participatory process was not well documented during appraisal however it was carried
out during implementation to the extent possible.
Cost effective approaches to design, construction and maintenance



30
6.    The objective of cost effective approaches to design, construction and maintenance of
the various components of the project have also been significantly achieved. Semi-dense
bituminous concrete mix designs were carried out for surfacing of the roads eliminating the
immediate need for seal coating. Bridges with bank seat and return type wing walls were
designed reducing the cost by about 10%. However the smaller bench seat bridges with brick
mattressing in the approaches, were, subsequently not considered cost effective by some
professionals as they would need costly maintenance.
The project initiated developing a cost effective maintenance system. A report on maintenance
management was produced. A tender document with specification of maintenance works and
a library of standard items for maintenance works was produced for use in getting
maintenance works done through contractors.
Lengthman system was used in routine maintenance of road shoulder, slopes and drainage
structures.
However labour contracting societies could not be developed under this project. Well trained
LCSs would be very useful for routine and smaller periodic maintenance of rural infrastructure.
This issue should be more seriously addressed in RRMIMP-2.
Resource Mobilisation at Zila and Upazila level
7.   The Govemment of Bangladesh has formed a Local Govemment Commission to
suggest structure, power and responsibilities of different tyres of Local Government. The
commissions recommendations are now with the Govemrment awaiting final decisions. As such
implementation of the recommendations of the Upazila lFinance Planning Study conducted
under RRMIMP has been delayed. However the potential sources of resource mobilisation
identified by the study got active consideration during preparation of RRMIMP-2 which has
since been implemented to increase the income of Union Parishads. This will increase the
capability of the Union Parshads to finance development programmes and maintain them.
EVALUATION OF BORROWERS OWN PERFORMANCE
PHASE- 1 ACHIEVEMENT:
The credit agreement with IDA was signed on 29 July 1988. As a condition of the credit
effectiveness, an agreement was signed on 25 April, 1988 with a consortium of consultants
lead by TPO Sullivan and Partners Limited engaging them as Design and Supervision
Consultants (D&SC) of the Project. Due to delay in engagement of Consultant of the start up
of the project was delayed.
Prequalificabon of contractors with the help of the D&SC was carried out. Tender documents
were prepared for construction of physical components of the project, procurement of
construction and laboratory equipment. After completion of all these steps tenders were floated
in March/April 1989 for construction of Markets and Structures on Rural Roads.
Tenders for Improvement of FRBs and construction of Bridges were invited in ApnilMay of
1989. As a result almost a year was lost for these components. However with the arrival of
constructon & laboratory equipment and increased Technical assistance construction activities
paced up.



31
By the Mid-Term Review of the Project in May 1992 only 75 km of FRBs were improved and
another 75 km were underway. Due to the slow performance and due to anticipated shortage
of fund (which was later on proved wrong as was earlier daimed by the borrowers) the donors
reduced the physical targets of the project as follows:
(a)  Improvement of 350 km of FRB in place of 500 km.
(b)   Upgrading of 200 km of FRB dropped
(c)   Construction SRR reduced to 2583 m from 3705 m.
PHASE- 2 PERFORMANCE
In doing so the donors underestimated the borrowers capability and during November 1992
and June 1993 Missions donors reviewed and reset the physical targets to be achieved in the
Phase -2 of the project as follows:
(i)   Improvement of FRBs approximately 500 km with 35 Bridges and other drainage
structures
(ii)   Surfacing/upgrading of FRBs approximately 500 km
(iii)  Construction of over 4000 m of SRRs.
The project successfully achieved all those targets even with considerable savings.
ROAD MAINTENANCE
The borrower with the help of the Consultants produced report on Road Maintenance
Management and Tender document for carrying out road maintenance through contractors.
Routine Maintenance of roads were carried out through lengthman system. After completion of
the project routine maintenance of its components have been taken over by Rural
Infrastructure Maintenance Cell (RIMC) of LGED. Periodic maintenance haven taken over by
RRMIMP-2. About 57.22 km of Roads improved under RDP-7 are being maintained at a cost
of Tk 19.99 Million by RRMIMP-2 under 1996-97 programme.
UPAZILA FINANCING PLANNING STUDY
As required by the project a study on Upazila Financing Planning was carried out to identify
potential resource mobilisation sources for maintenance of rural infrastructure. However with
the change of Govemments the implementation of the recommendations of the study has
been delayed. The study was useful in addressing the issue of resource mobilisation in
RRMIMP-2.
KEY LESSONS LEARNT
(i)   A participatory process in selection of project components will avoid problems
during implementation and will increase users acceptability
(ii)   Land Acquisition problems should be resolved through co-ordination between
various Ministries and Agencies



32
(iii)  The quantum of acquisition of land in this type of Rural Development project
being very small special care is necessairy in preparation of Land Acquisition
Plan to avoid future complication
(iv)   Time required for completing Land Acquisition process is always found to be
much more than the planned time. As such this process should start at least two
seasons ahead
(v)   The responsibility of valuation Land and other properties acquired should be
given to the requiring body (LGED)
(vi)  Surveys of roads or markets are generally carried out about 2 years ahead of
actual execution causing difference in the designed quantity and actual
requirement during execution specially for earth works and drainage structures.
As such provision of Physical Contingencies & price contingencies should be
kept in the contract to avoid price over run
(vii)  Action should be taken at the earlier stage for failing contractors
(viii)  Persons trained under the project should be in the project for some
considerable time so that the project can gain from the experience gained in
training
(ix)   Traffic increases with the completion of improvement of the road far exceeds
the predicated rate of increase. Diverted and generated heavy traffic beyond
prediction reduces the life of the road. Stricter law regulating heavy traffic
should be enacted and enforced.
(x)   Hard shoulders is essential for prolonging the life of the road.
(xi)   Regular Maintenance of rural infrastructure is essential.
EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE CO-FINANCIERS
Donors' performance from identification to completion of the project was satisfactory. Though
there were some initial problems. about selection of some roads, the donor - borrower
relationship was good.
Supervision Missions were very professional, objectively oriented and based on understanding
of the Borrowers institutional capabilities and on the basis of donors' policies and procedures.
During the project implementation, the donor - borrower relationship was beneficial and
productive. Both parties responded positively to the practical needs that arose during
implementation. Implementation problems were correctly identified, adequately assessed.
Necessary advice was given to the implementing agencies and follow up actions were
adequate. The timing of Supervision Missions was appropriate and time spent in the field was
sufficient.



33
ANNEX B
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION






34
ANNEX-B
Economic Costs and Benefits
Effects of FRB DeveloDment
Quantification of the effects of FRB development showed that on the average transport charges as
measured by freight charges declined to Tk 8.29 per ton/kilometre after development compared to Tk 27.42
before development and passenger trips declined to Tk 0.60 per kllometre after development compared to
Tk 1.24 before development.
Overall effect of each FRB development was measured by its EIRR The methodology for estimating EIRR
of individual FRB development was based on a partial analysis of the users transport cost savings from
FRB improvement and ignored other economic and social benefits from increased assess and mobility.
The distribution of EIRRs of the 40 FRBs studied under the SEME project are given in the enclosed table-
1. The EIRRs of the developed FRBs range from 12.9 to 62.0 percent with average around 26.4 percent.
SAR of June 1988 estimated EIRR of FRB development at 25% on the average, on the assumption of 5%
growth of transport. On the same assumption SEME study estimated the average EIRR at 26.4% (SEME
Final Report, May 1997 page 54) for 40 FRBs studied by the SEME out of the 47 FRBs targeted for
development. None of the estimated EIRRs was less than 12% - the minimum level of tolerance prescribed
for FRB development under RDP-7.
There was, however, considerable variations in the average EIRR among the eight project districts
reflecting variations in economic and business opportunities at the project hinterlands in the districts.
SAR EIRR estimate was stipulated on benefits arising not only from growth of transport but also on
externalities such as growth of agricultural productions, health benefit etc. SEME EIRR on the other hand,
is based on partial analysis of reduction in financial transport charges and does not take into account other
externalities. Had the excluded extemalities been taken into account, the average SEME EIRR for FRB
development would have been higher than 26.4%.
In addition to higher EIRR compared to SAR estimate, the SEME study also identified the following
specific benefits from FRB development.
FRB road improvements generated substantial increase in the total movement of people and goods.
On improved FRBs the volume of both passenger and cargo transport increased; by over 113
percent on the average in case of cargo and 136-percent in case of passenger Traffic within a year
of development.
Resulted in transfer to more efficient modes, with substantial growth in vehicular traffic - both
motorised (215%) and non-motorised (110%) and reduction in pedestrian (13%) and bullock cart
trips (55%).
Increased the number of both motorised and non-motorised vehicles for all the 40 FRBs; motorised
traffic as measured by the AADT (Annual Average Daily Traffic Count) grew by 117 percent,
while non-motorised traffic grew by 58%.



35
The relative share of traffic volume carried by motorised traffic increased. For the 40 study FRBs
share of motorised traffic in cargo increased  from 40% to 70% and passenger share increased
from 17% to 36% after development.
Stimulated the operation of bus services for the first time in most of the FRBs which is likely to
bring many social benefits.
Reduced the operating costs and transport charges of rickshaws and rickshaw vans because of the
availability of smoother running surface provided by the developed FRBs compared to undeveloped
dirt roads (table-1).
Effects of Market Develormeent
Overall effect of market development was measured by EIR. EIRR of market development, like EIRR of
FRB development, was based on a partial analysis of spoilage reduction due to market development and
ignoring several other economic benefits such as increased market turnover, increase in volume of toll
collection and increase in rentals from permanent shops etc.
The EIRR of nmarket development ranges from 17.9% (for Borgachi located in Bholarhat dtana of
Nawabgonj to 83.6% for Sujanagar located in Sujanagar dtana of Pabna district) with average of 30.7%.
The effects of market development were monitored and quantified by SEME study and showed the
following specific benefits:
-     The number of temporary sellers increased by 26% and market turnover by 80%.
-     The number of permanent shops increased by 53%.
-     Toll collection increased by 115% and market auction proceeds by 38%
-     Spoilage of perishable goods marketed reduced by 21% onl the average..
The EIRR of the individual markets and other market related ihdicators such as toil collection, auction
proceed, daily overall turnover number of permanent shops elc. showing the levels at before market
development compared to the levels after development are provided in table-2.
EmDlovment Effects of FRB and Market DeveloDment
An additional key effects of FRB and market development was direct employment generation due to
construction and indirect employment generation through creation of new activities such as appearance of
road side shops, of increase in non-motorised vehicles (Rickshaw, rickshaw-van) and motorised vehicles
(auto-rickshaws, pickup vans, trucks etc.) and diversion of traffic etc. Total number of worker years
generated as direct employment effects estimated around 19600 and total number of worker years generated
as indirect employment effects estimated around 5000 from both FRB and market development. Generation
of direct and indirect employment opportunities seemed to have helped alleviation of poverty and raising
overall welfare of the poor in the project catchment areas.



Table- I
INDICATORS OF FRB DEVELOPMENT
Si.    Name of                     Lengthi                               Costs                           EIRR                         Sport Perfomnance                                     Share of Morotised                           Pedestrians
No.            FRBs                   kmn                                                                                                                                                           Transport                             using Road
District
Fin.                  1   O.                                       PsegrGoods                                                Passenger (%              Goods C/o)
Million                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~II~~~I ~~efreBefore IAt                                            Befr Ate
District:  Rajshahi                                    _     _     _      _    _     _    _     _          _     _           _     _                                                                             _    __                     _
I    DUR-BEL               8.79                  25.50                   22.96                    23.37            4029            18390             129           669        2             13          8             73          184          2356
2  _(OD-KAK                14.00                 38.14                    34.32                    12.93            4838              43084          795           1615        14           7           40            59          946           1615
3  J 1CHA-D1IU  3.08        32.89                    11.97                   ~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~16.06  4666  5556        137           356         2            6            48           57          3049          1303
4       J   AG-NAR               1.97                 3.85                     3.49                     54.48            1977              3725           45             ISO        6             12          50           44          1469          150
5          DAR-CHO              32,27                 84.63                    76,26                    29.79             7774          427481             1735          3020       12            58          58           78          1362          2689
6          PUTr-ARA              10.67           .    25.70                    23.12                    29.88             7131          134420            394            826        7             8           31           16          3284          9498
7  NAG-RAM             ~~~~10.57              22.33                    20.13                    21.40            8028              6197           113           910         9            1 6         2             80      j2572             1671
District: Naogaon______
I         IAL-PAI               14.13                 37433.62                                          16.35         f3074                16262          13R           383         2            77          01            69          1453          1863
2          PRO-DEL              6.46               114.29                      12.87                    30.54            5891              9251           193           803         6             12          13           46          1144          1349
3   MAD-AGR               10.89                 23.75                    23.37                    22.80            10524             20669          278           994         3          j35            02           23          2851          3064
GA.B-CHIH              1970                     21.68                    19.32                   18.00             3711             4485            5             446         23           27          2             84          1027          1035
District : Natore
I    BAG-DAY            [6.95                    14.29                    12.8                    45.19             3653              14833          233           985         41           54          20            69          669          2376
2         HAY-LAX            12.19                    3.69                     3.32                     20.06         13389                2480           335            280        1 3           24          56           64        11311           1025
3         LAL-ABD            111.19                   26.37                    23.90                    30.52         111617               1599         *1958            2085       47            76          83           95          2592          2385
4         RH-A                  9.18                  27.82                    23.05                    35.16          118843              17472        '174             1281       39            45.         is           78       T2711            2085
3         (AR-KAN             _9.56                   17.66                    15.99                    53.36         J2697                8703            1171          1275       9             21          7            81        [1113           1915
Distrct : Nawabganj             __       _    _       __       _    _     _    _     _    _     ___                                   _    _    _    __                                                                                      __         _    _
I         NAW-NAM               3.36                  7.11                     6.40                     14.89         J 3386               5519           98            264         3             II1         47           75        11547           1910
2         MON-RAM               2.15                  5.93                     544                      12.86         119996               2328            143           195       7              2           24           32         11183          1170
3         _H    __A_G    130.53                  67.76                    66.11                    18.73         19027                23328          340            1637       2            62          .29           91          93s           1787
4    HAR-CHA            12.69                    6.60                     5.95                    32.86          13442                5378           195           264         6             II1        8             68       11611            1834
S          51H1-MON           J6.34                   19.45                    17.31                    36.16         J7706                10795          369            558        4             8           34           30        [1683           2198



Si.         Namne of                Length                               Costs                              EIRR                          Sport Performance                                      Share of Morotised                           Pedestuians
No.            FRBs                    kmn                                                                                                                                                               Transport                             using Road
Distrct
Fin                       Eco.                                      Passenger                         Goods                     Passenger (%/) JGoods()
_ _                              ~~~~~~~Million Tk         MillionIk                  _
Before    AfterI  BefoeAfer  BeoeAfter  BfrTAfter                                                                    beeAfe
District: Palma
I         GOY-ERD                7.17                   17.09                    15.38                    46.64             120,45            15394           673           99                        33 1              i         2                        2125T
2       ]SUJ-TR1                 35___92        _  18D.71                     172.65                                      Ii.53  t      I9 II2i29i                                       49II]~       44 4IZZ12 1I9K2I4I                                   96 I2
District: Sirajganj             ____                      ____
I         DRA-ENA                9.31                133.11                      31.57                 T16.80               1939           115907           (326            526         3             14         1           121         12312          12604
2          JAM-BAL               7.70                   28.20                    25.38                    14.07             1223              8618            137           396         4             43           02           26           1293       11947
3         TAR-BAR                10.53               130.71                      27.63                 122.38               3342           112043          II               372         S             40        11            170         12081       ~ 1685
4         TAIL-MOH               8.33                J23.48                      21.44                     13.78            6185              8191            52            406         .10           13           0         J72             2374          2087
5    BAN4-RAT              4.70                   9.07                     8.90                   124.82               6029           15516              116           262        3              17        131             76          2135        12267
District: Bogra                 ____
I         PHD-DH4A               1.12                  2.66                     2.38                      61.97             3952              5561         180              223        3              6            41           43       3244             2906
2          KHA-D2UR              11L22                  12.10                    29.60                    19.11             4387           -11392             493           710         I             61           4            86        -1125            3034
3          8.11-GIIO             13.66                  35.00                    31.49                    52.60             21186          -27508             84             1485       35            28           37           81        -2606            2174
4         TIL-SAN                7.04                   1110                     t1357                    14.68             5693           -6764              351           523         3             is           65           74        -2025         --2019
3          SON-NAR               22.46                  57.36                    51.62                    13.31             3255              649             2             1270        41            32           2            93           SD80          1238
6          CHO-CIOA              11.62                  26.03                    23.41                    17,60             8683           --13717            6             793         55            64           s0            78          958           1333
7          DHU-CI{A             114.46               143.60                      41.12                    25.40            110039           1 20980           2011          2052       112            32        I38             71           1721          3962
District: Joypuiihat            ____
r           K-IS O Iu Us 8.8                             23.13                 r                          28.14              11807           -13154            240           634         5             10           .01          52       T2636             2462
2     PAN-SHA              25.56                   167.69                   61.46                     3098             69785              85261           770           2630      843                   ~      O  67        7745         03220
23         PAN-KAM               21.360                 67.39                   61.06                     22.92             69795             95264           223           263         8             53                     1  65          303         17720
4          RHD8-MAD              12.30                  29.68                    26.61                    17.61             9108976                           239           812         22            38        161          1B8             1739          2303
Average all FRB                  1088                J 28.18                    25351                     26.43             6928              16339           450           957         14            29        126          164            2024           2723



Table-2
INDICATORS OF MARKET DEVELOPMENTS
SR       Name ofche    Name of            Axe        MS"          EIRR       Inaes      Seerdst Day                      ToR Coecdm dH day                   A timon MoneyN/er                       Tumovu Hoit day                     Spoilae Saving                Pemane  Shop
No.      MdA              Disiit          (Ame)    Size          f           cost i     (o.)                              (1k)                               ok)                                     (1k)                                ((%)                           No,)
in
u          ATk     Iar. hc.   F  Be9        Aw f          e.,       Eh Befee      Abc            h.. h.     Bore         Ao      hc       . h.    Bdo.      MOore   h-        Edo,       AMO      9. h.
_______                                                        96~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                           ~~~~~~~ ____   %  ____9                            In%                           96
I  37~        ~Rrif                 2.17           2       22.02      2419        441         497       12.70     13181        15611       18.44       335000        487000       45.37     1276703    1595764         24.99    4.58        .20      1.39     41         204      397.56
2        Boq              NK-                2.07           2       32.24      3.431        549       1692      99.29       5531         6343       14.72       33800         1076000      92.83      340139    U10032          342.0    6.74       3.17      3.57     104        194      09.54
3      _M hl.             Nore    _           2.04          0       22.30      2.454        692        993      43.50       2235         3872       73.24        7020D         123151       7028      241922    470762          89.63    5.00       3.47      233      75         103      37.33
4        94jw             P.                  2.33          1       33.63       .595       13u9       1a90       36.72      3969        14830      274.15        130000        310100      110.73     473302    203382s         327.9    6.79       3.73      3.04     170        269      37.65
3               .nw!      Sijjg-i            2.32           0       23.09      2.561        81o        877        8.27      s09          1421       30.06        70040         10o00       42.86       31628_     372061        81.06    3.22       3.15      9.07     148        161      s78
6        ICh,..o          B-N                 3.08          I       35302      3.870  1     610        782       28.20      2748         5137       83.39       20900          135101      -25.79      250209    339720         39.31    7.52       4357      2.93     135        2106 40
7        9,51  J6,1*                         5.0s           2       31.19      3.629      3107        3447       10.94     249360       70333      1s2.11       182o n00     2 o2 10        2334     339380      4007920        30.37    4.70       2.97    1.73       402        420      6.47
S        B.dul              N8                1.09          1       1&19       1.912       1304       1497       140.0      3729         420        29.26        132000        133000        2.27      374601    727n42         94.22    4.59       3.76      0,o3     21         41       93.24
9           _so'd        NW-bo               4.92           1       20.62      2. 54        961       1293       34.55      1304         5973      297.14        104000        163000       63.00      330303    969747         193.3    7.16       4.36      2.60     5          173      190.20
10      B50.1i            N ,                 1.36          0       17.91      1.977        7s5        010        3.18      2433         29 .0 2e84              02030          75001      s9.59      257931    332974          1066    7.17        4.36      2.91    4a          50       4.17
To8                                      2.72                  30.70        3.34     10949      13787       25.93      6110fl7    131.322     114.62      3.5311230     4, s 353       3829    7.467.38       13,454971    00.12      8         37       21        12         1.038    32.91
A,~_:                               _      27          0.0       30.7         3.3      1093       1379        29.2       6119        13132      103.         353125        400333        424       7467353       1345497    133.3    3.8         3.7      2.1       120      194        9.2
00






39
ANNEX C
SOCIO-ECONOMIC MONITORING AND EVALUATION STUDY
REPORTS
AND
OVERALL ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF RRMIMP-1






40
ANNEX C
SOCIO-ECONOMIC MONITORING AND EVALUATION STUDY REPORTS
and
OVERALL ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF RRMIMP-1
Introduction
1.    The RRMIMP-1 was implemented in eight districts of north-western Bangladesh from July 1991
through May 1997. The basic objectives of this project were the promotion of rural development through
reconstruction, upgrading and maintenance of roads and markets in the project areas, leading to the rural
population's increased access to transport and fostering more efficient marketing of surplus commodities.
In order to monitor and evaluate the economic impacts and socio-economic effects of the project, a Socio-
Economic Monitoring and Evaluation (SEME) Unit was also established and, later in 1992, integrated into
the project. The SEME unit was also assigned the tasks of economic appraisal of roads, bridges and
markets in the project areas prior to their implementation. The objectives of the SEME unit included,
among other aspects, the training of local government staff in SEME-type tasks and assist in the
institutionalisation of SEME as part of a Management Information System (MIS). The SEME study was
undertaken by Development and Design Consultants Ltd. (DDC) and their World Bank-approved SEME
consultant.
The SEME methodology
2.    The SEME methodology is essentially that of estimating economic internal rates of return (EIRR)
by comparing pre-project ("before") and post-project implementation ("after") situations of the roads and
warkets developed under this project. The transport component of the RRMIMP-1 concentrated on the
improvement of Feeder type-B roads (FRBs), as well as building small structures and culverts; the market
component improved the selling spaces, drainage and internal accesses in rural markets which had been
classified as growth centres on and off the developed road network.
3.    It was assumed that the impacts of the road improvement would lead to: (a) reduced transport costs
for freight and passengers which, in turn, would increase traffic and demand for transport; and (b) increase
the choice, range, and efficiency of rural transport modes available to the rural population, which would
lead to other positive effects, such as increased agricultural productivity, access to schools, health centres,
etc. In the case of improved markets, it was assumed that benefits would lead to decrease in the spoilage of
perishable commodities through improved sanitary conditions and decreased congestion in the imnediate
environment; the market users were expected to pay for these developments through increased tolls.
4.    As such, the SEME methodology was based on a conceptual framework where the development of
rural roads and markets is expected to generate a chain of positive externalities that are reflected in: (a)
significant increase in the volumes of both passenger and goods traffic; (b) reduction in average unit
transPort charges; (c) increase in vehicular traffic, such as buses and trucks, which is assumed to lead to a
more efficient modal nix; (d) sustained reduction of operating costs and transport charges for non-
motorised vehicular traffic; (e) stinulation of new employment opportunities directly, as well as through
indirect effects, for the rural poor in the project areas; (f) improved market facilities leading to decline in
the losses from spoilage or quality deterioration; (g) possible increase in the volume and value of
commodities traded as well as increase in market-users; (h) increase in the lease values (bid prices) and
rental charges (toils) from the developed markets as well as rise in the land values in surrounding areas;
and (i) possible growth of new commerce in these areas.



41
5.    In this conceptual framework, the expected benefits are compared with their concomitant costs.
The costs include: (a) the actual costs of investments in rural roads improvements, upgrading, construction
of structures and culverts, land acquisition and tree plantation; (b) the costs of required routine and periodic
makitenance over the expected 20-year lifetime of the FRBs; and (c) design and supervision costs
calculated at seven per cent of constuction costs. However, taxes and duties as well as contingencies were
excluded from the total cost.
6.    For FRBs, the methodology is based on the assumption of increased user cost savings in a
developed rural road compared to the previous undeveloped dirt road; where total costs comprised of the
direct and indirect costs savings. The discounted cost and discounted benefits streams over 20 years were
used to estimate the discount rate or the economic internal rate of return (EIRR). The EIRR for this
component was estimated to be 26.4% on average, which was higher than appraisal estimate of 25%, and
ranged between 12.9% to 62% (SEME Final Report, May 1977; page 54).
7.    In order to obtain data on transport volume, average daiLly traffic counts were used for "before"
and "after" situations. The draft Final Report on the Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation Study
(Miay 1997) prepared by DDC details the analytical framework that was developed through "considerable
experimentation and modifications" for evaluating the impacts of developing FRBs. However, it must be
pointed out that several effects were not quantified; these include both positive externalities (such as
introduction of bus services) and negative externalities (congestion, for example). Overall, it was found that
weighted averages of the estimated transport charges/costs had decreased following the development of the
FTLBs:
(a)    for cargo, the average cost (in Taka per ton-kilometer) declined from Tk 24.38 "before" to
Tk 9.10 "after";
(b)   for passengers, the average cost (in Taka per passenger-kilometer) went down from Tk
1.67 to Tk 0.68.
8.    In the case of developed markets, the analytical framework used for the savings in spoilage was
found fiom the difference in the turnovers for undeveloped and developed markets given a composite price
differential between the "before" and "after" cases. Based on actual market surveys, the spoilage saving
was calculated as the difference between the spoilage ratio (of perishable items) in the "after" situation
compared to "before". The detailed methodology is available on page 19-21 of the Final Report on the
SEME Study (May 1997). An average spoilage saving of 2.1 per cent was found to have occurred in the
ten marlkets surveyed, and average tumover per market day recorcded an incremental growth of 133.3 per
cent (Table 4.2 Final Report). The EIRR for this component was found to be 30.7 per cent on average,
and raged between 17.9 per cent and 83.6 per cent.
SEME Surveys and Monitoring
9.    In order collect data for the analyses of the impacts of rural roads and markets improvements,
several field surveys were designed, developed and administered. The surveys on roads-related issues
covered traffic counts, traffic surveys, transport charge surveys and road condition inventory surveys.
Markets-related surveys included enumeration and surveys of traders and selected commercial activities.
These surveys were administered for a sample of 40 roads (out o.f 47 roads under RRMIMP-1) and 10
markets (out of 65 markets) "before" and "after" project-financed improvements. A special rural transport
survey was conducted in four of the eight project districts to investigate the problems of rural transport in
Xt projects areas.



42
10.   The list of these sample roads and markets are provided in Table 3.1 of the draft Final Repor,
while the timetable of these surveys is given in Tables 3.2 and 3.3. The logframe for four roads-related
questionnaires is available in Table 3.4 of the draft Final Report Similarly, Table 3.5 lists the ten market-
related questionnaires with their survey types, key infonnation to be collected, and their purpose and uses.
11    In addition, the SEME also included a training component aimed at improving monitoring, field
data collecton and generation of reliable traffic and market data. Training activities imcluded workshops
(held at Bogra and Rajshahi in July, 1993) for the training of field staff, a course on Economic Analysis for
project and LGED research staff in (April, 1995). Relevant guidelines and manuals were also developed,
and two dissemination workshops organised (in July, 1992 and July, 1995). In total, 59 reports and/or
publications, including 30 special reports, 22 monthly progress reports and five annual reports, were
produced by SEME between 1991 and 1997.
12.   More importantly, a notable achievement has been the establishment of a SEME uiit at LGED,
which will contribute significantly to the Department's institutional development. Its objectives include the
development of a standardised SEME system for LGED projects, with functions both at its headquarters
and at the local level such that SEME activities would become an integral part of the MIS at LGED.






43
ANNEX D
ICR MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE






44
ANNEX D
BANGLADESH
RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1940-BD)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
SUPERVISION MISSION
June 22-June 30, 1997
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This aide-memoire records the findings of a mission comprising Messrs. M. Quazi (Mission
Leader), Z. Khan, J. Channe, S. Seth of the International Development Association (IDA), R. Habib of
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) and G. Rupprecht, 0. Meyer-Ruhle of
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (consultants of KfW), who conducted the final supervision of the project
between June 22 and June 30, 1997. The purpose of the mission was to review and assess completion of
the project with respect to physical objectives and targets, legal covenants, institutional objectives and the
final status of the project at completion. A wrap-up meeting with LGD was held on June 29, 1997, chaired
by Mr. A.H.M. Abdul Hye, Secretary, Local Government Division of the Ministry of LGRD&C. The
mission findings and recommendations recorded here are subject to confirmation by management of the
donor agencies (IDA, SDC and KfW).
2.    The mission is grateful for the assistance and cooperation extended to it by Government officials,
ncluding the Secretary, LGD and staff of LGED and their Consultants.
B. FINDINGS
Implementation Status - Civil Works
3.    The project fully achieved its objective of promoting rural development through reconstruction,
upgrading and maintenance of the feeder roads, improvement of growth centre markets, construction of
structures on rural roads in the project area, construction of LGED headquarters building and district
office/laboratory facilities, tree planting along side roads and implementation of flood component. The
mission is pleased to report that all civil works have been completed as appraised and modified during the
project period, and that the quality of completed works has been very satisfactory. Table 1 presents the
physical targets achieved under the project:



45
Table 1: Physical Targets Achieved
Item          Cmpnt                   SAR        Achie:ved              Remarks
No.
1.   FRB Improvement               500 km      496.85 km   300m remaining is in progress
2.   FRB Upgrading                 200 km      495.72 km   HBB upgraded to BC
3.   Bridges on FRB                1223 m        1079 m     35 bridges completed
4.   Structares on RR              3705 m        4041 m
5.   Growth Center Markets          65 No.       65 No.    1 GCM lost due to river erosion
6.   Tree planting                 500 km        399 Iam    47.6 kn by otiers
7.   Maintenance                   1867 km       800 lcm
8.   LGED HQ Building              6 floors     11 flaors   Donors financed 6 floors only
9.   District Office/Laboratory     6 No.         8 No.     2 buildings added to replace
Facilities                                            existing offices
10.  Flood Component (LGD)
Roads    399 km        428 Ian    }
Bridges    1797 m       2374 m     } Completed as required
Drains   21776 m       17505m    }
Retaining Walls    3000 m      2216m      }
Socio-economic Impact
4.    In order to monitor and evaluate the economic impacts and socio-economic effects of RRMIMP-1,
a Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation (SEME) Unit was established and, later in 1992, integrated
into the project. The SEME unit was also assigned the tasks of economic appraisal of roads, bridges and
markets in the project areas prior to their implementation. The objectives of the SEME unit included,
among other aspects, the training of local govemment staff in SEME-type tasks and assisting in the
insiitutionalisation of SEME as part of a Management Information System (MIS). The SEME study was
undertaken by Development and Design Consultants Ltd. (DDC) and their World Bank-approved SEME
consultant. The Mission reviewed the draft Final Report produced by the SEME Consultants upon
copnletion of their work. However, this draft Final Report (May 1997) will be fmnalised following revisions
to incorporate sonw corrections, clarifications and improvements.
5.    The SEME methodology is essentially that of estimating economic internal rates of return (EIRR)
by comparing pre-project ("before') and post-project implementation ("after") situations of the roads and
markets developed under this project. In order to collect data for the analyses of the impacts of rural roads
and markets improvements, several field surveys were designed, developed and administered. The
methodology for the evaluation was proposed by the Consultants and agreed by the Government and the
donors (Revised Methodology Report, July 1994). Based on this methodology, the Consultants have
quantified several impact indicators for both road and market improvements, with the central indicators
being economic internal rates of return (EIRR) for each project component. In the calculation of FRB-
related EIRRs, only the benefits from reductions in transport charges are accounted for; for the calculation
of market-related EIRRs, only reducfions in spoilage of marketed products are quantified as project
benefits.
6.    Overall, it was found that weighted averages of the estimated transport charges/costs had decreased
following the development of the FRBs from dirt roads ("before") to paved roads ("after"):
(a) for cargo, the average cost (in Taka per ton-kilometre) declined from Tk 24.38 "before" to Tk 9.10
"after"; (b) for passengers, the average cost (in Taka per passenger-kilometre) went down from Tk. 1.67 to



46
Tk. 0.68. Based on their survey results, the SEME consultants have estimated EIRRs to be between 13 per
cent and 62 per cent for 40 out of 47 FRBs, with an average EIRR of 22.7 per cent. This compares to the
EIRR target of 25 per cent projected in the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of June 1988.
7.    The surveys of 10 (out of 65) developed markets produced ElRRs between 18 per cent and 64 per
cent, with an average rate of 26.4 per cent. An average spoilage saving of 2.1 per cent was found to have
occurred in the ten markets surveyed, and average turnover per market day recorded an incremental growth
of 133.3 per cent. In addition, average auction prices per year (for toll collection leases) recorded an
increase of 42.4 per cent; the toll collection per hat (market) day more than doubled with a 105.4 per cent
growth (Table 4.2 Final Report).
8.    The impact of RRMIMP-1 on employment, according to the draft Final Report, was 18,600
person-years for construction and improvement works; around 1,000 permanent positions have also been
created. In comparison, the Bank SAR had anticipated 12,000 person-years and 500 positions respectively.
Indirect employment effects have been estimated to be around 5,000 permanent jobs in markets, roadside
shops, and transport services. In addition, the SEME also included a training component aimed at
improving monitoring, field data collection and generation of reliable traffic and market data; the training
activities have been completed as also have been most reporting requirements. More importatly, in order
to conserve and sustain for future the acquired know-how of field-level and LGED headquarters staff, the
establishment of a SEME unit at LGED would be essential for the Department's institutional development.
Project Implementation Support
9.    LGED as the implementing agency was responsible for carrying out the project. The Project
Implementation Office (PIO), with a total staff of 272, was responsible for the overall management of the
project. The PIO was headed by the Project Director and was supported by the Design Supervision and
Management (DSM) consultants and Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation (SEME) consultant. Due
to delay in the appointment of DSM consultants, the civil works started about a year late, which resulted in
the Credit to be extended by a year to complete all project components. Performance of PIO as well as
DSM and SEME consultants has been generally satisfactory. Under this project eight functional buildings,
furnished with materials testing laboratory, garage and workshop facilities, have been constructed in 8
project districts. Effective quality control for civil works component was achieved through training of site
staff and use of field laboratories. To consolidate the activities of LGED, a new HQ building was also
constructed under te project. The institutional development of LGED was only partly addressed under the
project, as LGED was still evolving into a competent and experienced organization. The project inputs
greatly assisted in its growth and efficiency. Its further development is being addressed through RRMIMP-
2 (Cr. 2927-BD), based on the recommendations of study funded by Asian Development Bank.
Flood Rehabilitation Component
10.   The flood rehabilitation component under this project was successfully completed by RHD and
LGED during 1989 to 1993. RHD rehabilitated and repaired flood damaged bridges and roads (damaged
during 1987-88 flood) in the southwest of Bangladesh with a cost of SDR 4.3 million. LGED rehabilitated
flood damaged feeder roads and related bridges in 28 districts; and rehabilitated roads, bridges, drainage
ditches and retaining walls in 42 municipalities west of Jamuna river with a total cost of SDR 8.1 million.



47
Financial Status
11.   Category-wise project cost up to project completion and the total disbursement figure are shown in
Annex-1. Based on the latest information, about SDR 2.72 million and DM 2.51 million will remain
undisbursed at Credit closing. An amount of SDR 2.37 million and DM 1.12 million is comnuitted to be
paid to the contractors and will be disbursed as soon as the final quantities are certified by the supervision
consultants. To date, CHF 12.87 million has been disbursed for the technical assistance and training, and
CHF 0.456 million is committed to be disbursed shortly; there will be no undisbursed balance in CHF
amount.
Financial Management
12.   To streamline the accounting and financial management of LGED, a private financial management
consultant has developed a computerized financial management system for the project. The financial data
for the period of FY 91- FY 95 have been compiled and the remaining informiation is being entered into the
system. Under the system, following output/reports have been generated:
- Summary statements of receipts and utilization of fund by category and different currencies.
- Statements of account balances at 143 project sites and Project Director's office at HQ.
The consultant has miparted training to LGED staff for data entry. The consultant has also developed a
simple computerized accounting system for project districts, and the system is being installed under
RRMIMP-2.
Financial Audit
13.   During the first half of the project, audit reports prepared by the Auditor General's Office were not
always submitted in time, moreover the quality of the reports was not fully in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles, and resulted in a lot of queries. During the midterm review of the project, it was
decided that in addition to GOB's regular audit, a private auditor would be appointed to conduct audit of
the project accounts. The private auditor has submitted audit reports starting FY95. The audit reports
showed satisfactory performance of financial and fund managemerLt as per IDA requirements. The auditor,
however, found that different accounting standards were followed in different site offices. To overcome this
problem, the audit accounting and financial guidelines have been prepared and 149 accounting personnel
have been trained, which has resulted in a marked improvement in the accounting system.
Training
14.   The Training Unit of LGED at Head Quarter is responsible for co-ordination and implementation
of training programs nation-wide through its 15 Regional Trainingi Centres. The project contributed to the
national training program of LGED by funding all costs related to ithe training in the project area during the
project period. The variety of courses designed for the participants were focused on road construction,
surveying, material testing, drawing and estimating, accounts and book keeping, administrative and
financial management, computer, etc. The LGED technical and financial staff of various levels participated
these courses. In addition, the project carried out some project specific training courses for LGED staff and
contractors. These courses included programming and planning, construction management, maintenance
implementation, supervision and quality control. The project also sponsored the overseas training courses,
study tours, workshops and seminars for LGED engineers and other relevant GOB officials. It implemented
the local training for 7,837 trainee days at a cost of Tk 2.78 million and the overseas training for 677
trainee days at a cost of Tk 7.98 million. Moreover, LGED engineers learned practical oriented appropriate
skills and techniques through field training provided by the consulitants, which has had a positive effect on



48
the quality of works in the field. The mission observed that overseas training was conducted on ad hoc
basis; this training could have been more effective through the adoption of a training strategy and a
comprehensive tuining plan.
Maintenance of FRBs
15.   The project has maintained about 800 kmn of FRBs during the project period (650 km routine and
150 periodic maintenance). The periodic maintenance was carried out through contractors and routine
maintenance was carried out by laborers on length person basis. Although routine maintenance should have
started on project roads after contractor's liability period, it was deferred to since WBM and HBB surfaced
roads inproved during the first year of the project were later upgraded to be bituminous paved roads to
avoid rapid deterioration caused by bullock carts. One of the requirements of the project was to develop a
maintenance implementation program, and a maintenance management system. For this purpose Rural
Infrastructure Maintenance Cell (RIMC) has been established at LGED which has produced maintenance
guideline.  Under this project, road condition survey format and standard contract documents for
maintenance work were developed and used. Recognizing the importance of maintenance, GOB has started
allocating fund in the revenue budget for the maintenance of rural infrastructure since FY 1992-93. The
budget allocation for maintenance has increased from Tk 300 million in FY 92-93 to Tk 900 million in FY
97-98. The mission strongly feels that LGED should continue routine maintenance of all maintainable
roads in the project area, give further training to field staff for maintenance work., and ensure better co-
ordination between the field offices and RIMC located at Head Quarter.
Project Closing Date
16.   The mission reminded that the Credit closing date June 30, 1997 will remain unchanged, and all
activities must be completed before this date in order to be eligible for expenditure. Currently more than
88% of the credit funds have been disbursed and LGED were advised that reimbursement of expenditures
incurred on or before the closing date of June 30, 1997, would be allowed beyond a period of four months
after the credit closing date up to October 31, 1997.
Preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
17.   The mission reviewed the data made available by LGED and requested to provide the following
additional data: (a) statistical tables; (b) sector specific data including road expenditures, budget
allocations, market tolls and other related information; (c) economic re-evaluation so that its analysis could
be compared with the economic evaluation carried out at the time of the project appraisal; and (d) future
plan of operation as provided in the ICR guidelines para. 34 with emphasis on technical, financial and
institutional arangements to ensure effective project operation.
Borrower's Contribution to ICR
18.   The mission advised LGED that in accordance with the "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements", the Borrower is required to prepare its own and submit this to the Bank
By August 15, 1997. The evaluation report/summary would be attached unedited to the ICR and will
include:
(i)    an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation experience;
(ii)   an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation
of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned; and



49
(iii)   an evaluation of the performance of the IDA and any other co-financiers during the
evolution and the implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the
relationship among the, borrower, the IDA, and co-financiers, with special emphasis on
lessons learned.
C. SUMMARY OF MAIN FINDINGS AND ACTION AGREED
Next Steps
19.   The following next steps were agreed:
(a)    Make final payment to contractors and consultants and submit withdrawal applications by
August 31, 1997.
(b)    Observe target dates for ICR:
- Prepare information needed for ICR                  July 31, 1997
- Send economic reevaluation                          July 31, 1997
- Send to IDA GOB's contribution to ICR               Aug. 15, 1997
Mohiuzzanan Quazi
Mission Leader
Date: July 29, 1997



50
ANNEX E
MAP






IBRD 29273
A8M8'h~"Ag                                                                                                                                           B BANGLADESH
I N D I A  * Dhorgunosh  _,       Po,              soht                                              z            RURAL ROADS AND MARKETS
INDIAhaf- Sooh                                            -                                                                 I~~~ 0    pN  ' - ''4M=dh.Ar  IMPROVEMENT AND
Potn~~oI              *                 A RHMAINTENANCE PROJECT
-25                                                                                   /*                                                                                                 2            |lhtpuw 1--Shipuri '' W _ - '' t t > . ,/ 25-  (RRMIMP)
Shib                                                                                                                                                            -    Ft_ -<~~    )    /t   <   1orba>gtosR  AbIdwShiq-* EEDER ROADS TYPE-B
M~~,odebpsr                                      N~o~A                                                                      (IMPROVED UNDER THE PROJECT)
INDIA~~~ ~~~~ A                                                                                         A-uap
GROWTH CENTER MARKETS
K,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                              A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(IMPROVED UNDER THE PROJECT)
:. . p,                                                                                                                                                      RURAL ROADS
~~~~     02 0 s<-  hsvo                                                                Ad nMadigi a' Kohono>E Gobo
IAOOAON *                                                                        -yo---- FEEDER ROADS TYPE-A
IRoa9oAa ~  ~         IMonb                           o                                         -                                                                                       NATIONAL AND REGIONAL ROADS
- ~~~~~-                                                     '-'-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~RAILROADS
Shibg-n MiNcoe E                                                      o,~g.RTB9r                       -M                                                                                 0   THANA HEADQUARTERS
-6.".      Ab.d4ku~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DISTRICT HEADQUARTER-S
Mohoropor  NOWAEQAh(J  I                                                                                                             - - - - - IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANA BOUNDARIES
,ITOTeOROa                                                                                                                                         -  - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)N-  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
No,,,oho~Eo,p       AT.         lop)1Ah.b-9-1I \                                                                 P'~" I                                             -  - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
K~~~~~                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ k-  hop      tlr
~~ \Ls  ~~~~~~~P~~~>EooYMpoc~~~~~~,.
N..hgi.  DU,~~
'  '                                                                                       '-~~           F~& oW',A soro           Dhozodpor ,' Lp
I N   D  o  I  A                                                                                         ,               ELtrr I 
- '>-  01000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 L1
-   - -   -                         ~ ~ ~~~~0 10     22       32 Kd-                                           5l ..g.
Bcrv of Bengal! 
JANUARY H998



