Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1940 BD
(Rural Roads and Markets
Improvement and Maintenance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 29, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1940 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of the Federal 
Republic of Germany, acting through the Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW)  a grant 
(the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent to twenty five million five hundred thousand 
Deutche Marks (DM25,500,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and KfW;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of the Swiss 
Confederation (Switzerland), acting through the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) a 
non-reimbursable contribution (the Swiss Contribution) in an amount  equivalent to 
thirteen million nine hundred thousand Swiss Francs (SwF 13,900,000) to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Page  2
Switzerland;
(D)
Switzerland intends to appoint the Association to administer the Swiss 
Contribution in accordance with the provisions of the Procedural  Arrangements dated 
April 9, 1987 between Switzerland and the Association; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence  of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order 1972 (P.O. Order No. 127 of 1972);
(b)
"LGD" means the Local Government Division within the Ministry of Local 
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives of the Borrower;
(c)
"RHD" means the Roads and Highways Directorate of the Roads and  Road  
Transport Division within the Ministry of Communication of the Borrower;
(d)
"Zila" means an administrative unit of the Borrower comprising two or 
more upazilas;
(e)
"Upazila" means the sub-districts created under Ordinance No. LIX of 
1982, of the Borrower;
(f)
"Project Area" means the area comprising the districts of Bogra, 
Jaypurhat, Pabna, Sirajgang, Naogaon, Natore, Nawabganj and Rajshahi;
(g)
"FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending June 
30 of each year;
(h)
"TK" means Taka, the currency of the Borrower;
 
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"Swiss Contribution Account" means the account established by Switzerland 
for the purpose of the Swiss Contribution; and
(k)
"Procedural Arrangements" means the agreement between the Government of 
Switzerland and the Association for cooperation in the cofinancing of  specific 
projects or programs within the framework of the Eighth Replenishment, dated April 9, 
1987.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement,  an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
45,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amount of the Swiss 
Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss  Contribution 
Account, respectively in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  3
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association  shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
(b)
Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree, the 
allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss Contribution shall be governed mutatis  
mutandis by the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after  the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on  which  amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or  cancelled; (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the  
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1998 and  ending March 15, 2028. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2008 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
Page  4
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, administrative and financial practices, and  shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation to the generality of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the 
Borrower shall follow criteria satisfactory to the Association in the  selection and 
design of the feeder roads structures on rural roads and growth center markets to be 
improved or upgraded under Part A of the Project, and  (ii) flood rehabilitation works 
under Part B of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the  Swiss Contribution shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the  Project, 
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms of 
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were made on the basis of  statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
Page  5
the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this 
Section, the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any  grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to  perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of  Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the KfW Agreement and 
the Swiss Contribution Agreement (other than, if applicable, the  effectiveness of 
this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b)
a senior economist to assist in the implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project has been appointed by the Borrower;
(c)
the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the Project have been 
approved by the Borrower; and
(d)
the Borrower has employed the consultants to assist the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the design and supervision for the rural infrastructure under Part A 
of the Project and for the flood rehabilitation under Part B of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that Switzerland or the Association terminate the 
functions of the Association pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Procedural Arrangements, 
the Association shall notify the Borrower promptly of the date  on which Switzerland 
shall assume the rights and obligations of the Association under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the External Resources Division of the 
Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as  representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of  America, as  of  the day and year first 
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Akbar Ali Khan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Swiss Contribution
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of  the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Swiss Contribution, the allocation of  the amounts 
of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount          Amount of
                           of the          the Swiss
                           Credit        Contribution       % of
                          Allocated        Allocated      Expendi-
                         (Expressed      (Expressed in      tures
                           in SDR        Swiss Francs       to be
Category                 Equivalent)      Equivalent)     Financed
Page  7
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  Part A        23,9000,000                       70%
          of the
          Project
          (other
          than Part
          A.9)
     (b)  Part A.9 of       400,000                       30%
          the Project
     (c)  Part B of
          the Project:
           (i) LGD        8,000,000                       95%
          (ii) RHD        3,600,000                       95%
(2)  Goods:
     (a)  Part A of       1,300,000                    )  100% of
          the Project                                  )  foreign
                                                       )  expendi-
                                                       )  tures,
                                                       )  100% of
                                                       )  local
     (b)  Part B of         200,000                    )  expendi-
          the Project                                  )  tures (ex-
                                                       )  factory
                                                       )  cost) and
                                                       )  70% of
                                                       )  local ex-
                                                       )  penditures
                                                       )  for other
                                                       )  items
                                                       )  financed
                                                       )  locally
(3)  Feeder roads           900,000                       70% in FY
     maintenance                                          89, FY 90 and
                                                          FY 91;
                                                          56% in FY
                                                          92; 42%
                                                          in FY 93;
                                                          and 21% in
                                                          FY 94
(4)  Incremental          1,300,000                       70%
     staff and
     operating
     costs
(5)  Consultants'                         13,900,000      100%
     services and
     training for
     Part A of the
     Project
(6)  Unallocated          5,400,000
     TOTAL               45,000,000       13,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
Page  8
(c)
the term "incremental staff salaries and operating costs" means the cost 
of additional staff employed exclusively for purposes of the Project, and the cost of 
operation and maintenance of offices, vehicles and equipment procured under the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that  
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 400,000  may 
be made in respect of Categories (2), (4) and (5) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after May 15, 1988;
(b)
expenditures to be financed under Category 1 (a) after the aggregate 
amount of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from such Category shall have reached 
the equivalent of SDR 8,000,000, until the Borrower and the  Association have jointly 
reviewed the progress of the Project pursuant to  paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and the Association has notified the Borrower that, as a result of said 
review, the Association is satisfied that the Borrower has adopted: (A) a system for 
feeder road maintenance; (B) a plan for financing feeder road maintenance; (C) a 
system  for monitoring local government road and market activities; (D) technical  
design and construction standards and specifications for feeder roads and structures 
on rural roads; and (E) a plan of action for the remainder of the Project; and 
(c)
expenditures in respect of Category (1) (b), until the Borrower has 
carried out a study and prepared a financial plan for the building to be  constructed 
under Part A.9 of the Project, satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to promote rural development through  the 
reconstruction, upgrading and maintenance of feeder roads and markets in  the Project 
Area, to implement cost effective road construction and maintenance techniques, to 
improve resource mobilization and strengthen institutions responsible for maintenance, 
and to rehabilitate roads and associated structures west of the Jamuna river damaged 
by the 1987 floods.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Infrastructure
 
1.
Reconstruction, upgrading and maintenance of about 500 km of type B feeder 
roads.
2.
Construction or upgrading of about 3,700 running meters of culverts and bridges 
on rural  roads.
3.
Improvements to the facilities of about 65 growth center markets.
 
4.
Development and implementation of a maintenance system for feeder roads.
 
5.
Development and implementation of a training program.
 
6.
Design and supervision of Project works, management and monitoring under the 
Project.
7.
Preparation of a financial plan for Project zilas and upazilas, and of a study 
of rural transport.
8.
Construction of offices and laboratory facilities in the Project zilas.
 
9.
Construction of a new headquarters building for the Local Government Engineering 
Bureau.
10.
Carrying out of a study on the causes of flood damage to roads and related 
structures, and preparation of an action plan for minimizing future flood   damages to 
roads and related structures.
Page  9
Part B:
Flood Rehabilitation
 
Rehabilitation of: (i) flood damaged roads and bridges maintained by RHD in 
southwest Bangladesh; and (ii) flood damaged feeder roads and related bridges in 28 
zilas, and roads, bridges, drainage ditches and retaining walls  maintained by LGD in 
42 municipalities west of the Jamuna River.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of  preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods that, to the extent practicable, cannot be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and suitable for  international 
competitive bidding, may be procured under contracts awarded on  the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with  procedures satisfactory 
to the Association; provided, however, that items of equipment estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $25,000 each, up to an  aggregate amount of $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured through prudent shopping on the basis of at least three 
price quotations from different sources.
2.
Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures  satisfactory 
to the Association; provided that civil works to be carried out by  LGD and RHD under 
Part B of the Project shall be grouped into bid packages  estimated to cost TK 
1,000,000 and TK 2,500,000 or more each, respectively.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to the first civil works contract for each of the following 
Parts of the Project: Part A.1, A.2, A.3, A.8 and A.9 and Part B,  and thereafter with 
respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent  of $200,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the  Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the  Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special  Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished  pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Page  10
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized  withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such  consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an Implementation 
Schedule agreed annually with the Association, on or before  March 31 in each year, 
starting on or before March 31, 1989.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project upazilas will contribute 7% of the 
costs of the structures on rural roads and markets improvements in their areas.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that the project zilas will: (i) set and  maintain 
rental fees on construction equipment at levels sufficient to recover  maintenance and 
replacement costs of such equipment, and (ii) maintain  separate accounts into which 
equipment rental fees shall be paid and from which expenditures shall be made only for 
equipment maintenance and replacement.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that Project upazilas will increase market tolls on 
improved markets to levels, and in accordance with a time schedule, agreed with the 
Association.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1991 or such other date as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, furnish to the Association an  assessment of 
Project performance up to the date of such assessment and a  draft action plan for the 
remainder of the Project; and (b) not later than  June 30, 1991, or such other date as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out a joint review with the Association, 
KfW and SDC, of said Project performance with a view to finalizing and carrying out 
the said action plan.
6.
The Borrower shall not issue any tender documents for civil works under Parts A 
and B of the Project unless and until the consultants referred to in  Section 6.01 (d) 
of the Project have been employed and have reviewed such tender documents.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; provided, however,  that 
Category 1 (b) will not become an eligible Category until the provisions of paragraph 
3 (c) of said Schedule have been complied with.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special  Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  11
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the  basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule  for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and  
other evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such  payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the  
eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment  entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such  procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount  not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has  provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
Page  12
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent   withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of  this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
