Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25588 - IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 82.20 MILLION
(US$ 112.56 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
CHHATTISGARH DISTRICT RURAL POVERTY PROJECT
March 24, 2003
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2003)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
1.00 Rupee = US$0.20
US$1.00 = Rs. 47.9
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG            Auditor General
AO            Accounts Officer
AP            Andhra Pradesh
APPs          Anti Poverty Programs
AR            Annual Review
ARCS          Audit Report Compliance System
BPL           Below Poverty Line
CAA&A         Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit
CAG           Comptroller and Auditor General
CAPART        Council for Advancement of People's Action
and Rural Technology
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBO           Capacity Building Organization
CDD           Community Driven Development
CG            Chhattisgarh
CEO           Chief Executive Officer
CIG           Common Interest Group
CQ            Selection based on Consultants Qualifications
DEA           Department of Economic Affairs
DGS&D         Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals
DPIP          District Poverty Initiatives Project
DRDA          District Rural Development Agency
DRPP          District Rural Poverty Project
EA            Environment Agency
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EMF           Environmental Management Framework
EU            European Union
FM            Financial Manager
FMM           Financial Management Manual
FMR           Financial Management Report
FMS           Financial Management System
Gol           Government of India
GoCG          Govermnent of Chhattisgarh
GP            Gram Panchayat
GS            Gram Sabha
HRD           Human Resource Development
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMI           Institutional Maturity Index



IPM           Integrated Pest Management
JFM           Joint Forest Management
LEA           Limited Environmental Assessment
M&L           Monitoring and Learning
MIS           Management Information System
MoU           Memorandum of Understanding
MP            Madhya Pradesh
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
NRM           Natural Resource Management
OM            Operational/Manual
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PESA          Panchayat (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act
PFT           Project Facilitation Team
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMP           Pest Management Plan
PMR           Project Management Report
PRI           Panchayat Raj Institution
RD            Rural Development
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
SC            Scheduled Caste
SHG           Self Help Group
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SPU           State Project Unit
ST            Scheduled Tribe
TSP           Tribal Sub-Plan
TDS           Tribal Development Strategy
TOR           Terms of Reference
WHO           World Health Organization
ZP            Zilla Panchayat
Definitions:
Gram Panchayat:      Elected village government representing one or more villages
Gram Sabha:         Village assembly comprising all eligible voters of the village
Zilla Panchayat:    District level government of elected representatives
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:  Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:  Constance A. Bernard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Luis F. Constantino/Madhavi M. Pillai






INDIA
CHHATTISGARH DISTRICT RURAL POVERTY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                  Page
1. Project development objective                                                   2
2. Key performance indicators                                                      2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                      3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   6
3. Benefits and target population                                                  6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                            12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                               13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:                                   13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                       13
2. Financial                                                                      13
3. Technical                                                                      14
4. Institutional                                                                  14
5. Environmental                                                                  17
6. Social                                                                         18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                             22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                 24
2. Critical risks                                                                 24



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   25
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          25
2. Other                                                                            25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       27
L. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         52
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  54
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  55
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 70
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                71
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          75
MAP(S)
IBRD 32254



INDIA
Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASRD
Date: March 24, 2003                              Team Leader: Luis F. Constantino
Sector Manager/Director: Constance A. Bernard     Sector(s): General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Country Manager/Director: Michael F. Carter       (50%), Sub-national government administration (30%),
Project ID: P076467                               Other social services (20%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Other social development (P), Poverty
strategy, analysis and monitoring (S), Other rural
development (S)
Project Financing Data  .                                         - -- .    *n-,, -*
[ ] Loan    [XI Credit     ] Grant     I ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$ 112.56 million equivalent
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50%                             Service charge: 0.75%
LFirianj      Souree .a .''                           . 2 -fLoeal; i.  .7- rF6beig  n, -  .Totall
BORROWER                                                        5.40           0.00          5.40
IDA                                                           110.26           2.30        112.56
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              11.39           0.00         11.39
Total:                                                        127.05           2.30        129.35
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Responsible agency: GOVERNMENT OF CHHATTISGARH
Address: Panchayats and Rural Development Department, Government of Chhattisgarh, Dau Kalyan Singh Bhawan,
Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India
Contact Person: Mr. M.K. Raut
Tel: +91-771-2221358            Fax: +91-771-22341 10          Email: dpip.cg@rediffinail.com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
¢,FY  V.1  - .;-.2003  2o04       2 . ,005'  2006      2007          809 :     ,   rT ,2O8. .
Annual      1.13      7.96      24.27      38.04      28.00     10.29       2.87
Cumulative     1.13       9.09     33.36      71.40      99.40     109.69    112.56
Project implementation period: 5
Expected effectiveness date: 05/31/2003  Expected closing date: 03/31/2009



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objective is to improve opportunities for the poor and vulnerable, especially
women and tnbals, to meet their own social and economic development objectives. To achieve this
objective the project would: (i) create infrastructure and income opportunities for the rural poor; (ii)
empower active groups of disadvantaged people; and (iii) support village governments in becoming more
responsive and effective in assisting them.
The project builds on the lessons from the three District Poverty Initiatives Projects (DPIPs) under
implementation in India [MP DPIP (Cr. 3430-IN), AP DPIP (Cr. 3332-IN), and Rajasthan DPIP (Cr.
3339-IN)]. Chhattisgarh was created as a state on November 1, 2000, and was previously part of Madhya
Pradesh (MP), sharing with MP a similar legal, policy and institutional framework. Therefore, many
aspects of the design of MP DPIP are immediately relevant for Chhattisgarh.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
o number of families benefited;
o average cost of subprojects compared with government standards;
o increase in income of project beneficiaries;
o increase in access to clean drinking water by poorest habitations in each Panchayat;
o reduction in migration among beneficiaries;
o participation of disadvantaged people, particularly women and tribals, in subproject activities and
decision-making;
o community contributions in cash;
o   number of beneficiaries with access to banking system;
o improved people's perceptions of Gram Sabhas (GSs) and Gram Panchayats (GPs); and
o number of GSs and GPs practicing participatory budgeting.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2002-0203[IDA/R2002-0177;IFC/R2002-0214]  Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/05/2002
A key objective of the Bank Group assistance to India is to reduce poverty by strengthening the enabling
environment and supporting critical pro-poor interventions. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
highlights a specific need of improving government's effectiveness through decentralization and
accelerating pro-poor rural development through more effective delivery mechanisms, and by
strengthening the rural safety net and beneficiary participation. The CAS also includes a focus on states
with high poverty, or where a high development or demonstration impact is likely, in addition to states
embarking on a comprehensive program of reforms. Chhattisgarh and the proposed project meet these
criteria. The proposed project targets some of the poorest villages in Chhattisgarh, and is to be
implemented by communities and local governments thus addressing both the CAS objectives of
pro-poor rural development and decentralization. Chhattisgarh, a new state, has already demonstrated its
commitment to poverty reduction, for example, through the effective implementation of pro-poor
programs, such as computer education for girls and pensions for destitute women, and through its State
Policy for Women Empowerment. Chhattisgarh is in reasonable fiscal health compared to most other
states and is focusing first on strengthening its basic institutional framework. The state has also
committed itself to maintaining a lean administration and relying on the private sector and local
governments for development and delivery of public services. The proposed project would have an
-2 -



important demonstration effect at a time when new policies and institutions are being created.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Among the main rural sector issues throughout India, including Chhattisgarh, are (1) the high rural
poverty and lagging human development indicators in rural areas; (2) the need to improve the
effectiveness of public expendituies; and (3) the lack of success in fostering more responsive,
accountable and inclusive rural institutions through rural decentralization. Despite the considerable
success in establishing elected local governments in rural areas, India's rural institutions are still plagued
by poor governance and the country continues to have some of the poorest social indicators in the world
despite the large share of public spending targeted for rural development.
Rural Poverty: Poverty in Chhattisgarh remains pervasive, and is not much different from the parent
State of Madhya Pradesh. About 43% of the population lives below the poverty line (BPL), and among
these, the conditions of the tribal and scheduled caste populations, which together amount to 57% of the
BPL population, are particularly bad. About 42% of the rural population does not have access to either
electricity, safe drinking water or sanitation. Rural areas have high levels of migration which worsens in
periods of drought. One of the reasons behind poverty and low human development indicators is the
inaccessibility of many villages. Women and tribals are among the most disadvantaged groups. While the
gender ratio is the second highest in India after Kerala, female literacy is low (21 percent in rural areas)
and infant mortality is high. Literacy is lower among tribal people (25 percent) and tribal women (11
percent) than for the population at large (37 and 21 percent respectively). Tribal families live on the
margin of the agrarian economy serving it with their cheap labor and skills. Tribal people constitute 70%
of the work force in the state and are mostly employed in the primary sector.
Anti-poverty programs: Today, the central and state governments spend close to 3% of state GDP in
rural development programs in Chhattisgarh. While this high level of expenditure shows the commitment
to rural poverty alleviation, there are concerns regarding the effectiveness of these expenditures. Key
issues include: proliferation of programs; tied funds and supply driven investments; poor targeting; lack
of funding for group based activities; high administrative costs; complex procedures; by-passing of
emerging local governments; lack of transparency; and dubious sustainability of benefits.
Rural decentralization: Despite the 73rd Constitutional Amendment of 1992 that created local
governments in rural areas and GoCG's commitment to rural decentralization (such as increased
expenditure authority, knowledge hubs at the Gram Panchayat (GP) level, etc.), obstacles still stand in
the way of this process and in the emergence of effective and inclusive rural governments. First, local
governments do have neither the capacity nor the means for basic public management and service
delivery. Second, there is a need to improve the capacity for collective action and inclusion, particularly
in non-tribal villages. Third, while committed to deepening pro-poor decentralization, the government
lacks the expertise to do so.
Government strategy. GoCG's poverty alleviation strategy identifies six priorities:
*   developing partnerships with funding organizations and NGOs to reach grassroots level
beneficiaries more effectively;
*   promoting accountable Panchayati Raj institutions that deliver pro-poor planning and effective
services;
*   greater empowerment of the poor, especially women and scheduled castes and scheduled tribes,
through the formation of Self-Help Groups;
*   better management of natural resources and common property at the Panchayat level;
- 3 -



a   more effective investment in infrastructure to provide sustainable employment to the poor, and to
reduce migration; and
o   improving delivery of education, health, drinking water, sanitation and roads.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The state government requested the Bank to support a project to: (1) reduce rural poverty; (2)
demonstrate to the numerous stakeholders (state and local governments, communities, NGOs) innovative
and effective ways of addressing the needs of the poor; and (3) improve local governments, deepening
decentralization.
To reduce rural poverty, the project would:
o   improve social, economic and productive infrastructure and public services, and create income
opportunities for the poor in about 2,000 villages.
To demonstrate more innovative and effective ways of addressing rural poverty, the proposed project
would:
o   finance community and village investments to be decided by beneficiaries;
o   empower disadvantaged groups by putting funds under their direct control in their bank accounts;
a   avoid bureaucratic interference and allow rural people to procure technical and NGO support;
o   support groups that self select themselves around common interests and problems;
o   ensure inclusion and participation by appropriately targeting communications and information
towards the most disadvantaged by closely monitoring participation and inclusion in local
decision-making processes, and tying subproject approval and budgets to the quality of this
decision-making;
o   ensure transparency, widespread infornation, communications and learning about the project's
and group's performance, successes and failures, through formal and informal mechanisms; and
o   facilitate changes in attitude and behavior of institutional stakeholders through human resource
development.
To improve local governments, the project would:
o   require that all commnunity and village investments be approved in a Gram Sabha (village
assembly);
o   ensure ownership, create credibility and foster a culture of local financing, cost recovery and
taxation by requiring cash contributions for group subprojects and establishing village funds to
be financed by communities;
o increase the capacity of local governments for financial management, participatory budgeting
(Panchayat plans) and dissemination of information;
o   put in place a graduation process by which, in order to access more project resources, local
governments (GPs and GSs) would need to first demonstrate that the poorest habitations have
access to clean drinking water, and that participatory methods and adequate financial
management are bemg used;
o   co-finance subprojects in Panchayat plans (village plans);
o   increase the capacity of four training institutes in Chhattisgarh to provide support to PRIs; and
o   provide support to GoCG on policy matters related to decentralization.
- 4 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
, ' ''l ' f..'.   '    W,            ,   ,,-/; -  l.  _-' i,' _. ' - ..' ; ' lIndicative.  Biak-.' .n   -%of
*.;,,~    i. :,, . Component: ..co..s .Cots                 % of     financing   Bank-
(US$M)   ,- Total.  . (US$M). . financing
(1) institutional and human capacity building: (a) fornation  23.57  18.2  18.22     16.2
and strengthening of organizations; (b) comrnunications
and information; (c) human resource development; (d)
strengthening of Panchayats; (e) monitoring, learning and
special studies; and (f) project administration
105.78      81.8     94.34      83.8
(2) Community Investments:
(a) matching grants for community investments; (b)
matching grants for Panchayat plans; (c) village fund
(Gram Kosh); and (d) innovations fund
Total Project Costs  129.35   100.0    112.56     100.0
Total Financing Required  129.35     100.0     112.56     100.0
Institutional and Human Capacity Building would create an enabling environment and capacity for
project success and sustainability. It would consist of (a) Formation and Strengthening of Organizations
to recruit and build the capacity of NGOs and Project Facilitation Teams (PFTs) in supporting groups of
the most disadvantaged people in accessing project resources; (b) Communications and Information to
ensure that the project and its rules are disseminated to all target beneficiaries through appropriate
means; (c) Human Resource Development for project stakeholders to build skills and change behavior
through orientation, reward and perfornance appraisal, and supply-driven and demand-driven training,
(d) Strengthening of Panchayats to develop training programs, supporting training institutes and
delivering training on a range of subjects from financial management to participatory planning for the
Panchayats in the state to enable them to deliver services to the poor; (e) Monitoring and Learning and
Special Studies to support information gathering about the project, carry out special studies, analyze the
information and communicate lessons to project beneficiaries and decision-makers; and (f) Project
Administration to focus on day-to-day project management and to support executing agencies at the
district and village levels.
Community Investments would consist of the investment part of the project and would include: (a)
Matching Grants for Community Investments to finance collective income-generating activities to be
decided and proposed by groups of poor people such as micro-imgation, drinking water, small spot dams,
land improvements, mnicro-enterprises, animal husbandry, etc.; (b) Matching Grants for Panchayat Plans
to finance investments in village infrastructure and other public goods such as road ugrading, drinking
water, village ponds, village markets, community halls, schools, etc., included in participatory Panchayat
Plans; (c) Village Funds to be entirely financed by community contributions and to finance operation and
maintenance of village infrastructure as well as further village development beyond the life of the Credit;
and (d) Innovations Fund to provide small grants for demonstration subprojects to be initiated by PFTs,
NGOs, private sector, or any other entities.
-5 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would seek to establish processes demonstrating to government and other stakeholders
options for reforms to improve:
o   governance of district and village governments, enhanced collective action at the village level,
local resource mobilization, monitoring and better inforrnation flow;
o   public expenditures, through more efficient and effective delivery of services and rural
development programs for the poor, and improved cost recovery;
o   access to the financial system, by opening bank accounts in the name of communities, assisting
them with their first interactions with bank officials, and changing perceptions of banks of their
reliability as customers; and
o   administrative reform, through greater accountability, transparency and responsiveness of the
local administration to locally elected officials and constituents.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits (see Annex 4). The major benefits to the rural poor participating in the project would
include:
o   increased incomes from greater access to productive assets (infrastructure, skills and resources);
o   greater capacity of disadvantaged groups for collective action; and
o   more responsive, accountable, effective and inclusive Gram Panchayats and Gram Sabhas.
Target Population. The target population would be about 150,000 families (750,000 people) among
the most socially and economically disadvantaged in Chhattisgarh. Three mechanisms for targeting
would be used:
o   geographic targeting by first selecting the poorest two or three blocks (depending on district
size) in each district and the poorest villages (for a total of 2000 villages) within these blocks
according to objective criteria developed by GoCG (Annex 2); blocks would be selected on the
basis of published data, and villages would be setected after field visits;
o   group targeting by actively putting in place a communications strategy about the project targeted
at the poorest and most marginalized groups first by promoting collective action, organization,
information and skills among these and by enhancing their ability to negotiate with formal
organizations and demand project and other program resources; and
o   individual targeting for income generating activities to be carried out by the Gram Sabhas
(village assemblies) based on the following criteria: (a) all Scheduled Castes and Tribes; (b) all
households with migrant wage earners; (c) households without permanent dwellings or whose
houses need repair; (d) women and women headed households; (e) all landless and marginal
farmers; and (f) lower 70% of households ranked in order of poverty in a participatory way.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing agencies:
Common Interest Groups: Common Interest Groups (CIGs) would be the key organizations of the poor
in project villages. These would be either existing groups such as self-help groups, forest comrnittees,
watershed associations, savings and credit groups or groups as yet to be forrned. Disadvantaged people
would self select themselves and come together around a common need or an interest and develop a
subproject concept, plan and budget.
Gram Sabhas (Village Assemblies): Gram Sabhas would be responsible for identifyfing the target
- 6 -



beneficiaries in each village based on objective wealth ranking criteria, would approve CIG subprojects,
Gram Panchayat plans and capacity building activities, would monitor subproject implementation (for
both CIG and GP), would determine how local contributions for village investments would be collected,
would review all aspects of subproject management by CIGs and Panchayats, would evaluate the
performance of GPs and PFTs, would decide on the use of the Village Funds (see below), would ensure
coordination with other programs, and would address any disputes arising at the village level.
Gram Panchayats (Village Governments): Gram Panchayats would be responsible for calling and
chairing Gram Sabha meetings, would execute the decisions of the Gram Sabha, would prepare village
plans, budgets and public subprojects in consultation with the Gram Sabha, would disseminate DRPP at
the village level, and would assist villagers in forming CIGs.
Project Facilitation Teams: Project Facilitation Teams, either specially trained groups of government
staff or NGOs, would be the "stewards" of the "rules of the garne". They would assess the quality of
CIGs and Gram Sabhas in terms of participation, would be the first to disseminate the rules of the
project, would ensure the authenticity of the wealth ranking exercise, would initially assist GPs with the
formation of the first groups, and would be available as facilitators and resource people to assist, if
requested, with all aspects of project implementation at the village level. About 40 PFTs would be
formed, with about 4 to 5 people, covering about 25 villages each. Four PFTs are already functioning in
the pilot district of Bilaspur. All PFTs would be in position within six months of start of implementation.
About 20 percent of the PFTs would be staffed and monitored by NGOs and the other 80 percent by
govemment staff seconded to the project. Both NGOs and government staff would receive special
orientation and training related to their roles. To the extent possible PFTs would mclude women, tribal
people and members from the project villages.
Zilla Panchayats (District Governments): Zilla Panchayats would be the key institutions in charge of
project implementation in each district. For administrative purposes, they would be supported by the
Chief Executive Officer and staff specifically dedicated to the project (with expertise on financial
management, gender, tribal and environment issues, communications, monitoring and human resource
development). They would define budget ceilings for CIGs and GPs based on population and
performance, would disburse to CIGs and GPs, would monitor all aspects of project implementation,
would manage the communications campaign, and would ensure compliance with the tribal strategy and
environmental framework. They would also be responsible for PFTs, and for the capacity building
programs. Finally, they would ensure coordination and complementarity with other government
programs.
Coordination Committee and State Project Unit (SPU): At the state level, the project would be
overseen by a Coordination Committee chaired by the Chief Minister and including the Ministers of
Rural Development, Finance and Tribal Affairs and others (See Annex 2). Govemment Orders for this
purpose have been issued. The committee would meet twice a year to address issues of coordination with
other government programs and agencies. An SPU has been established in the Panchayats and Rural
Development Department and is responsible for the administration of the project. It is staffed with a
Project Director and includes seven staff members covering the following areas: financial management,
procurement, communications, tribals and environment, monitoring and leaming, and capacity building.
Implementation Arrangements:
Core Processes: The project would be implemented through nine core processes: (1) human resource
development, (2) strengthening of Panchayats, (3) communications and information, (4) formation and
- 7 -



strengthening of organizations, (5) community investments of CIGs, (6) Panchayat plans, (7)
establishment of village funds, (8) funds flow, and (9) monitoring and learning and special studies.
(1)    Human Resource Development would ensure that (a) project staff and PFTs share project
values and have the capacity to contribute to project objectives; and (b) beneficiaries can develop the
skills (technical and non-technical) needed to implement and manage subprojects, to make informed
choices and contribute to village development. Human resource development would be the responsibility
of one or more Capacity Building Organizations (CBOs - these could be NGOs or government agencies)
which would cover several districts. CBOs would be supervised by a capacity building coordinator in the
SPU.
(2)    Strengthening of Panchayats would assist Panchayats to attain a basic level of capacity for
financial management, accounting, participatory village planning, revenue generation, access to
government schemes, information and knowledge dissemination and transparency. These Panchayats
would also be eligible to receive technical assistance on special activities undertaken by them, through a
demand driven process. Finally, it would also strengthen the state training institutes responsible for
capacity building of Panchayats.
(3)    Communications and Information would ensure that the target population has full knowledge
of the project, its rules, and funds available, as well as of other development programs and of decisions
taken by implementing agencies. Communications would be the responsibility of the GPs, PFTs, ZPs and
SPU, which could contract out services at their level.
(4)    Formation and Strengthening of Organizations would ensure that disadvantaged people
(women, low caste, tribals) have the first opportunity to organize themselves into groups capable of
voicing their demands, accessing project resources and eliciting responses from local governments and
other project organizations. This activity would also assist CIGs involved in similar activities in
developing higher level agency functions and in linking up with the private sector and markets.
(5)    Community investments of CIGs would ensure that disadvantaged groups have a choice over
local investments, control the funds, and are responsible for their implementation. CIGs would identify
and submit subproject proposals (primarily for income generating activities), as they become ready, to
the Gram Panchayats, which would call a meeting of the Gram Sabha to review and approve (or modify,
or reject) them. CIGs would contribute 5% in cash towards project costs.
(6)    Panchayat Plans, covering public goods and services within the functions devolved to
Panchayats in the State Panchayat Act, would be elaborated annually in a participatory manner and
taking into consideration available schemes, own resources and the funds available from DRPP. This
planning process is currently underway in Chhattisgarh, and the project would improve its quality and
co-finance specific subprojects included in the Panchayat Plans of the poorest Panchayats. The project
would initially allocate a fixed budget to each Panchayat based on population (US$5 per capita). Before
being eligible for an additional budget, Panchayats would need to meet the following criteria: (a) positive
support to the project through communications, CIG formation and conducting of participatory Gram
Sabhas; (b) provision of safe drinking water to the poorest habitation from project sources or other
funds; and (c) satisfying basic financial management standards. All GP subprojects would require
community contributions of up to 5% in cash, and the GS would decide how funds would be raised. The
Panchayat plans would be discussed and approved in a Gram Sabha.
- 8 -



(7)    Funds Flow: The project has been budgeted in the Panchayat and Rural Development
Department budget as an identifiable line item for the first year and this would continue for subsequent
years. GoCG would pass on the funds to the SPU in the Panchayat and Rural Development Department
through a Treasury check. GoCG would ensure adequate advance fund reserves with the SPU during the
entire project period. During the first year of implementation, GoCG would make the entire annual fund
requirement available to the project and in subsequent years make six monthly releases equivalent to
50% of the fund requirement on submission of the annual work plans by the SPU. The SPU would retain
a part of the funds to finance its own activities (costs associated with M&E, special studies etc.) and pass
on the balance to the sixteen ZPs for project implementation. The ZPs would use the funds for activities
at the district level, including subprojects being implemented by CIGs and GPs. Both at the SPU and at
the ZP levels, the project funds would be maintained in a separate bank account earmarked for the
project. CIGs would not need to be registered bodies. The Financial Management Manual and
Operational Manual along with the subproject Agreements entered into between CIG/GP and ZP on
approval of the proposal would include information on the agreed financial management arrangements.
(8)    Village Funds (Gram Kosh) would be funds financed through CIG contributions to cover
operation and maintenance costs and further village development beyond the lifetime of the project. They
would thus help ensure the sustainability of subprojects. These CIG contributions would be deposited in
the Village Fund bank account and would not be used to finance the specific subproject investment they
are associated with.
(9)    Monitoring, Learning and Special Studies would ensure that project stakeholders learn from
the project successes and failures. Monitoring would cover (a) inputs, outputs and outcomes; (b)
performance of project organizations; (c) project processes; and (d) project impacts. Monitoringfor
supervision would initially focus on: (i) quality and quantity of participation of different social and
economic groups in the CIG, GS and GP; and (ii) on the cash contributions of communities. Monitoring
of CIGs would be the responsibility of GPs and PFTs while monitoring of GPs would be the
responsibility of PFTs and ZPs. Monitoringfor learning would be undertaken by different levels of
stakeholders - both for their own decision making purposes and to improve management's understanding
of project processes. Another dimension of project learning would be cross-learning among the four
states - Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. In addition, special studies would
address specific policy issues: (a) support to the State Finance Commission on fiscal decentralization;
(b) own revenues of Panchayats; (c) traditional system of governance of tribal people; (d) land
administration and common land management issues; and (e) others.
Subproject Agreements & Beneficiary Contributions: The financial management arrangements for
the implementation of the subprojects would comprise of the following:
*   The subproject agreements would be based on lump sum contracts with payments linked to
achievement of physical milestones. The milestones and the payment of installments would be
defined in the agreements. These agreements would also need to indicate the beneficiary
contributions required for each of the milestones. In the case of GPs, the existing MOU formats
between ZPs and GPs would be used.
*   The lump sum contracts based on achievement of physical milestones would allow the CIGs and
GPs to retain savings, which could arise from efficiency and economy in project
implementation. The savings so retained would be used only to meet expenditures of operations
and maintenance or to enhance the value of the assets created under the project, as agreed by the
CIG or GP collectively. This requirement would be documented in the subproject agreements.
-9-



o   CIG/GPs would open a separate subproject bank account where an upfront 5% cash contribution
for subproject activities from the beneficiaries would be deposited. The funds in this bank
account would only be used for project related payments. Operations and maintenance
contributions, savings from subproject and related payments, would not be made into this
subproject bank account.
o   The Credit would finance the cost of the subprojects to the extent of 95% of the total costs. The
balance 5% would be contributed by the beneficiaries as above. The entire 95% of the cost of
the subproject would be released in one tranche into the bank account of the CIG/GP after
confirmation of the receipt of the 5% beneficiary contribution.
o   There would be an arrangement between the ZPs and the bank that an amount equivalent to 45%
of the cost of the subproject would be immediately made accessible to the CIG. The balance
50% of the amount would be released on the confirmation of the PFT that the CIG has met the
conditions as laid out in the MOU and is eligible to draw the second installment from the bank.
This confirmation would be endorsed and forwarded to the bank by the ZP. The bank would
also confirm the release to the ZP. The second tranche of the subproject funds would become
eligible for disbursements from the Credit only on its release on certification and not when the
funds are transferred to the bank accounts.
a   On top of the total cost of the subproject, beneficiaries would contribute and extra 10% (in lieu
of partial cost recovery) towards a Village Fund called Gram Kosh before the release of the
second tranche from the project. These contributions would be in cash only. The Village Fund
would be maintained by the Gram Panchayat. This fund would remain operational beyond the
life of the Credit and help ensure sustainability in the funds available to the villages for O&M or
new investments.
o   The release of the payments would be subject to (i) signing of the Agreement; (ii) opening of
the subproject bank account; (iii) deposit of cash contributions for each milestone into the bank
account; (iv) services of trained book-keeper; (v) certification of achievement of physical
milestones; and (vi) submission of monthly financial reports.
Phasing: The project would be implemented in a phased manner. This would maximize learning effect,
creating incentives for good performance, and would avoid overburdening project administration. About
120 CIGs have been formed in the pilot district of Bilaspur during project preparation. During the first
year of project implementation, all the target villages in Bilaspur would be covered, and at least one
village in each of the other districts would be targeted. All selected blocks in all the districts would be
eligible for project funding during the second year. Within blocks, the project would address villages
sequentially instead of covering all villages at the same time.
D. Project Rationalle
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1. Support for existing anti-poverty programs sponsored by the Government of India was rejected
because:
o   they are financed by the central government with limited state contributions and it would be
difficult to influence this through a state project;
o   per capita administrative costs are high;
o   poor targeting, tied funds, supply driven; and
o   they have no focus on organization and skills of the poor.
2. A large specific investment project supporting a few selected activities identified by state governments
and implemented through the existing line departments, and a pilot Community Fund for small
community investments, was rejected because:
- 1 0 -



*   tied funds and supply driven;
*   relying on line departments and no support for decentralization;
*   likely to increase the fiscal liabilities of the state; and
*   no focus on organization and skills of the poor.
3. The independently managed "social fund" approach relying mostly on NGOs was rejected because:
*   doubtful long-term sustainability;
*   lack of a sufficient number of good NGOs, limited geographical coverage and loose
accountability of NGOs; and
*   less ability to support local governments.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest.;Supervision;-Ir
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR), Ratings
, _________________________________ . __________. __________ ._ _  (Bank-flnanced  projects  6onlyj
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Reclamation of salt affected lands  Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands     S             S
using participatory methodologies  Reclamation Project Phase I
(1993) and Phase 1I (1999)
Watershed management             Integrated Watershed             S             S
Development Projects I (1990)
and II (2000)
Karnataka Watershed 2001         S            S
Rural water supply and sanitation  Karnataka Project (1993)       S             S
Social sector, gender specific initiative Uttar Pradesh Project (1996)  S       S
for micro-enterprise development
Rural Women's Development        S            S
and Empowerment Project
(1997)
Poverty reduction                Andhra Pradesh District           S            S
Poverty Initiatives Project
(2000)
Rajasthan District Poverty       S            S
Initiatives Project (2000)
Madhya Pradesh District          S            S
Poverty Initiatives Project
(2001)
Other development agencies
Rajiv Gandhi Mission, 1994
for Education (Education
Guarantee Scheme), Health
(Iodide Campaign), Natural
Resource Management
(Watershed management)
IFAD Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project has drawn on the Bank's global experience. The design of the project incorporates
lessons from projects that were effective at delivering basic infrastructure and services to the poor. In
particular, it reflects lessons learned from Bank-financed rural development projects in India (e.g. UP
Sodic Lands Project, Integrated Watershed Development Projects, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Projects and Forestry Projects). Finally, the project is the fifth DPIP/Rural Poverty Project in India, the
others being under implementation in Andhra Pradesh (two projects), Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan,
and it includes early lessons from those projects, namely:
o   put the community in the driver's seat through control over funds and investment decisions to
achieve efficiency and sustainability;
o   communities contribute towards investment and operational costs if they are assured of good
service;
o   it is not enough to mobilize communities for social action - they want economic opportunities
and need investments to be made in these, alongside social mobilization;
o   where there is an ongoing process of decentralization and local governments are emerging, it is
important to work through these institutions to reflect local needs, expedite decision making and
to ensure the institutional sustainability of the programs;
o   ensure speedy implementation through development of streamlined procurement and
disbursement rules and regulations, detailed operational manuals, computerized MIS,
standardized financial management procedures, regular and rigorous auditing, and quantitative
monitoring and evaluation;
o   create competitive employment conditions for the project management staff to attract and retain
competent and motivated individuals; and
o   implementation through government channels at the district level facilitates coordination across
agencies in supporting beneficiaries.
Project design incorporates the following features and lessons from MP DPIP, as Chhattisgarh was until
November 2000 a part of MP:
o   groups of disadvantaged people have full capacity to choose what is best for them, procure
technical assistance, manage project funds and implement the subprojects;
o   one of the main challenges is the top down and supply driven approach of government officials
and NGOs in proposing solutions to communities; hence it is necessary to carefully select project
staff and orient and train them on the values of the project;
o   the Gram Sabhas (village assemblies) do an excellent job in applying the project criteria for
selecting the poorest families;
o   a communication strategy for the target population is important;
a   disbursements start slow because of community mistrust of the government but increase quickly
as trust and information are established; communities tend to move from small group based
income generating activities to village or multi-village infrastructure projects;
o   for transparency and ease of implementation project rules need to be kept as simple as possible;
o   a separate body such as a Society is not necessary for efficient implementation as long as
appropriate financial arrangements are put in place; and
o   matching grants create incentives for savings since communities need to make substantial cash
contributions; after a first stage in which they receive matching grants for productive projects
and develop a relationship with bank officials, groups of poor people are often able to deepen
their relationship with financial institutions, with increased access to credit.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Although Chhattisgarh is a new state, GoCG already has a good track record in poverty alleviation and
empowerment, with the formation of a large number of women self-help groups and effective use of
funds under vanous programs (e.g. Food for Work Program). The GoCG has created a high level SPU
and has carried out field visits in MP to review the experience of MP DPIP. The GoCG has initiated a
pilot covering two of the poorest blocks in the district of Bilaspur and has allocated their own budget and
initiated pilot activities in these blocks. GoCG has selected and Environmental agency and shortlisted a
Baseline agency.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*   The Bank brings its global expenence on decentralized community driven rural development to
India. There is still a great need in India to promote 'alternative' approaches to rural development
and poverty alleviation, and the Government of Chhattisgarh specifically requested the project as
a means to access the Bank's international experience.
*   Bank support of five DPIP type projects (MP, AP and Rajasthan under implementation and the
proposed Chhattisgarh DRPP and AP Rural Poverty) would facilitate the sharing of information
among them and enhance both the quality of each project and their demonstration impact and
total value to India's development.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
The proposed project focuses on social organization and empowerment, improved local governance,
capacity building and community-initiated subprojects, from income generation to rural infrastructure.
Hence, economic opportunities from subprojects are but one of the project's outputs, the other two being
empowered and active groups of disadvantaged people and their ability to promote more effective,
accountable and inclusive local institutions. Due to its demand driven character, the project does not lend
itself easily to a detailed ex-ante cost-benefit analysis and rate of return calculations. It will be the
beneficiaries who ultimately determine the scope and mux of the investments. Because beneficiaries
would have to contribute at least 15 percent of project costs in cash, they would face incentives to invest
in activities that contribute most to their livelihoods. In other DPIPs, it is being found that often
investments chosen by poor people are not those that have the most immediate financial results, such as
increasing the productivity of their assets. Instead they often choose first investments that help reduce
migration in the household, improve the conditions for children to attend school, or increase security
against criminal actions. A real case analysis of five types of subprojects popular in MP (goatery, dairy,
land levelling, tailoring and brass band) showed positive economic net present values ranging from
US$603 (land levelling) to US$4450 (brass band) at a 15% real interest rate.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A sample of real case subprojects popular in MP indicated positive financial net present values of $4,426
for a buffalo dairy, $4,685 for a tailoring enterprise, $5,315 for a goatery and $6,208 for a brass band
corresponding to increases in monthly household incomes of $14.76, $15.60, $17.00 and $20.70,
- 13-



respectively.
Fiscal Impact:
Chhattisgarh DRPP is expected to have both positive and negative fiscal impacts. The positive impacts
would be as follows: First, it would implement a more cost-effective approach to anti-poverty programs.
It is expected that over the long term, through the demonstration effect, the project would bring about
reforms in state and national anti-poverty programs with fiscal savings. The willingness of the population
to contribute a higher share of investment costs is expected to increase as credibility of the government is
established, reducing the burden on the government budget. Second, an output of the project would be
village funds from community contributions which would improve the fiscal situation at the village level,
create a culture of local taxation and cost recovery and leave in place funds to cover operation and
maintenance of village investments. Third, the project would improve financial management at the local
government level, likely to have a positive fiscal impact. Finally, the project would generate local
economic growth which could potentially increase revenues of local, state and central governments. The
negative impacts would result from the repayment by GoCG of 70% of IDA funds to GoI at a 12%
interest rate (under current rules). While it is difficult to assess ex-ante if the overall fiscal impacts
would be positive or negative, compared to other states Chhattisgarh is in reasonable fiscal situation and
the government has put poverty reduction at the core of its development a strategy.
The project would also involve some upfront government expenditures as counterpart funds, but GoCG
put special care during project preparation in ensuring that the project would not increase the fiscal
liabilities of the state during the project years. Government contribution is US$5.40 million (4.2 % of
project cost), which would finance recurrent costs, mostly salaries and allowances of PFTs and
Government staff in the SPU and ZP. However, no incremental staff would be created. Instead, currently
under-utilized state field staff would be seconded to the project, and thus the government salary bill
would not increase. No increases in recurrent expenditures of the state government are expected during
the post-project period. All the recurrent expenditures of subprojects would be met by community
contributions.
3. Technical:
The technical quality of subprojects would be ensured by first, allowing communities to choose
technologies they are familiar with; second, allowing communities to procure technical assistance from
the public, NGOs or private sector if they choose to do so; and third, ensuring that through the ZP, GPs
and PFTs, the expertise of line agencies would be available to assist communities which request technical
expertise from govermment. Activities in different sectors would be carried out within the policy
framework and general guidelines established for other Bank-assisted projects, where applicable, or
within existing GoCG policies.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The SPU in the Panchayats and Rural Development Department would be responsible for project
administration. At the District level project implementation would be the responsibility of Zilla
Panchayats. Special training and capacity building activities of the project would address the weaknesses
of these agencies, both in the beginning and during implementation. Implementation would be in
partnership with Gram Panchayats, Gram Sabhas and Common Interest Groups. While all these local
agencies are weak, an objective of the project is to strengthen them, both through a learning-by-doing
- 14 -



process and through specific organizational and skills building activities.
4.2 Project management:
A State Project Unit in the Panchayats and Rural Development Department is in charge of project
administration and would disburse funds to the districts and carry-out routine project monitoring. The
Project Director is supported by a team with specialized skills in financial management and procurement,
communication, environmental and tribal issues, gender and capacity building and monitoring. In
addition to their administrative role the team would help address institutional weaknesses at the state and
district levels by assisting the executing agencies at these levels with performance of their functions
under the project. Careful selection, recruitment and training of project staff would ensure that the basic
skills are in place for proper project administration.
Project Facilitation Teams, either NGOs or groups of government officials, would be the "stewards of
the rules of the game". Initially, they would also communicate the project to the target population and
help the first groups in each village walk through project procedures. The project's decentralized and
flexible approach represents a new departure from the administrative tradition in India. Hence, there is
currently limited capacity both within existing government staff or structures and most NGOs to
effectively implement the project. Behavioral changes in the manner in which they apply procedures or
approach decision making would be brought about through the staff and NGO recruitment and selection
(R&S) process, and intensive training programs. Four PFTs are already in place in the pilot district of
Bilaspur and the rest are expected to be in position within six months after effectiveness.
Zilla Panchayats would oversee project implementation at the district level and ensure that the support
of line agencies would be provided and that there is coordination with relevant government programs. To
address capacity limitations at the district level each ZP would be assisted by the CEO office, which
would be strengthened with additional staff as needed. ZPs would also be eligible for capacity building
activities.
Gram Panchayats and Gram Sabhas would promote the project, make decisions regarding priorities,
select beneficiaries, screen proposals, approve CIG projects and monitor the project. Gram Panchayats
would also prepare participatory Panchayat plans. Although Gram Panchayats and Gram Sabhas are weak
the situation is better in scheduled areas (mostly tribal areas) that fall under the Extension to the
Scheduled Areas Act. In these areas local governments and Gram Sabhas are controlled by the majority
tribal population, exhibiting less social divisions and building upon traditional procedures of
decision-making. Both in tribal and non-tribal areas Gram Panchayats would receive technical assistance
on financial management, participatory budgeting and other areas. Experience from the DPIPs shows
that where groups have been formed and relevant resource allocation decisions are taking place, Gram
Sabhas become an effective forum for discussion and participation.
Common Interest Groups: Experience from the DPIPs shows that once the poor and disadvantaged
people learn the "rules of the game" and develop trust for the project they are able to form groups,
identify priorities, prepare proposals (or seek assistance to do so), look for technical assistance, call
Gram Sabha meetings to discuss and approve the proposals, manage bank accounts and subproject flows
in a transparent manner, carry out procurement, implement the subproject, collect cash contributions and
operate and maintain the subproject. The situation in Chhattisgarh will be equal or better, given the
homogeneity of tribal areas.
- 15 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
The matching grants component involves small subprojects requiring procurement of works, goods and
services costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent. These subprojects would be implemented by the
communities, through direct contracting. Looking to the different procurement needs, the following
provisions have been made under the project. At the State level the SPU would have a trained
procurement officer conversant with Bank's procurement procedures, especially those related to small
community-based investments. S/he would also: (a) play a coordinating role in response to emerging
demands from the district units; and (b) standardize technical details for the community works to be used
as an aid for preparation and review of the subproject proposals. Since most of the procurement activities
would be managed by ZPs, each district unit would have a trained full-time staff to handle the
procurement work. Given that the formation of CIGs and hiring of NGOs and PFTs would be a
continuous process spread over the entire project period, workshops and seminars on procurement issues
would be organized at regular intervals to ensure good understanding of procurement procedures amongst
the district staff, the beneficiary institutions and NGOs.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project has a financial management system which would be capable of accounting for project
resources and expenditures adequately. A financial management manual for the project has been
prepared. The Manual lays down the accounting policies and procedures applicable to the project. An
integrated computerized system would also be developed - in the interim a manual accounting system
would be followed.
The Panchayats and Rural Development Department, Government of Chhattisgarh, would be the nodal
executing agency for the project. The program would be implemented through CIGs and GPs at the
village level. The Financial Management Manual and Operational Manual along with the subproject
Agreements entered into between CIG/GP and ZP on approval of the proposal would include detailed
guidelines on the agreed financial management arrangements. Important lessons learnt from the
implementation experiences in other DPIPs/CDD projects were incorporated into the design of the
financial management system. The financial management arrangements set up would emphasize local
level transparency, social audit and self-accountability.
Since the capacity at the CIGs is clearly not adequate, one of the critical functions of the Zilla Panchayat
(CEO office) and the PFTs would be to provide hands on support in order to enhance the capacity of the
CIGs in bookkeeping and accounting. Training on the accounting arrangements at the CIG level would be
provided to the PFT team members.
A detailed staffing plan has been drawn up, which is a part of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The
finance function would be managed by a Financial Manager at the SPU, who has been inducted in the
project, and is of the rank of Deputy Director Treasury & Accounts. The finance function at the ZP/CEO
office would be managed by accounts officers.
Disbursements: Disbursements from the IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and could be converted to
the report based disbursements at the option of the GoCG and Gol after successful demonstration of
regular, timely and adequate Financial Monitoring Reports.
Audit: The audit of the project would be carried out by Auditor General of India (CAG). The Terms of
Reference of the auditors and the format of the annual financial statements have been agreed with the
- 16 -



Association and form part of the Financial Management Manual. The audit would be carried out in
accordance with the International Standards of Auditing. The audit would cover all the accounting
centers and include an audit of financial transactions and an assessment of the operation of the financial
management system (including internal control mechanisms). On completion of the subproject, the
CIG/GP would submit final statements of expenditures duly audited by a firm of chartered accountants.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental issues may arise in the village investments component, but these are likely to be minor
since subprojects would not exceed US$50,000, are expected to average US$5,000, and most would cost
less than US$ 1,000. An Environmental Management Framework (EMF) has been developed instead of
an EMP following the usual practice in projects of this type where types of investment are not known
ex-ante. The EMF would:
*   prevent execution of subprojects with potentially significant negative environmental impacts;
*   decrease potential minor negative impacts through modifications in subproject design, location
or execution; and
*   prevent or mitigate cumulative negative impacts as the result of multiple small-scale
investments.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMF incorporates the following elements, which together ensure the adequate management of the
project's environmental risks, and would help achieve positive environmental outcomes:
*   a methodology and administrative structure for environmental management;
* an environmental capacity-building and awareness-raising program; and
*   an environmental supervision, monitoring and audit plan.
These elements are summarized in Annex 2, Attachment 1. All subprojects would be subject to a process
of environmental screening which would ensure that no activities are undertaken that require the use of
hazardous pesticides, entail the construction or rehabilitation of dams more than ten meters in height,
occur within National Parks, or adversely affect cultural property. The screening process would also
identify those activities for which standard measures to mitigate minor, local environmental risks, should
be adopted, and those for which a more detailed, site-specific assessment is required. Based on this
exercise, the subproject would be assigned to one of four categories, requiring either (a) no further
environmental input, (b) Environmental Review, (c) Limited Environmental Assessment, or (d)
Environmental Impact Assessment, through which appropriate measures to mitigate environmental risks
would be established.
To ensure that environmental screening and assessment are adequately implemented, the EMF also
specifies environmental capacity-building and awareness-raising activities to be supported by the project.
Capacity-building and awareness-raising would be led by an Environment Agency (EA) to be appointed
by the SPU. The EA would also supervise the effective implementation of the EMF by the ZP and
CIGs/GPs. To provide an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the design and implementation
of the EMF, once every two years the SPU would contract an environmental audit of the DRPP to be
conducted by an independent agency.
- 17 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January 27, 2003 (EMF)
Date on which draft EA was sent to Infoshop: December 13, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Translated summaries of the tribal strategy and environmental management framework have been
displayed at 16 district offices (Zilla Panchayats), 12 blocks and all the pilot Gram Panchayats of the
project. Consultations were held during project preparation with a broad cross-section of communities
including women, tribals, elected representatives, a number of NGOs operating in the state, Government
officials including line agencies, academics and independent researchers. During subproject preparation,
local stakeholders would lead the environmental screening and review process, as this would be
conducted by the CIGs/GPs, initially supported by PFTs. To assist the CIGs in this process, the project
would support environmental awareness-raising for beneficiaries and other local stakeholders.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental supervision would be conducted by the ZPs and environmental assessment and
environmental audit of DRPP would be conducted by an independent organization. Supervision by the
EA of a sample of subprojects would ensure that the EMF procedures are followed and mitigation
measures implemented. The EMF also suggests parameters to be examined during the independent audit
to identify any cumulative impact of the DRPP subprojects. See Annex 2 Attachment 1 for a brief
account of the environmental supervision, monitoring and auditing requirements.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Outcomes: The project seeks to improve opportunities for the poor and the vulnerable, especially women
and tribals, by addressing: (a) their capacity to act collectively; and (b) their ability to effectively use
social and economic infrastructure and services. Disadvantaged groups would express their demands and
dictate which kinds of subprojects would be financed, would manage Bank accounts, procure technical
assistance and materials, and implement subprojects. Early experience from other similar projects shows
that this approach is effective in strengthening social capital among the poorest. By providing
communities the opportunity to address their needs through a genuinely participatory decision-making
process the project would improve Gram Panchayats and Gram Sabhas by: (a) reducing clientelism and
political interference; (b) strengthening the capacity of both communities and local governments to
select, prioritize and implement investment decisions; (c) creating partnerships between communities and
GPs; and (d) more generally increasing the community voice in the use of public resources.
Ensuring the poor are included: The project would be pro-active in targeting poor people and
marginalized groups in several ways:
o   Geographic targeting: project blocks and villages were and are to be selected by applying
poverty indicators to secondary source information according to a methodology agreed with
GoCG. These include representation of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in any given
location.
- 18-



*   Participatory social assessments: primary data collection and analysis at the village level would
be undertaken by PFTs during project implementation and as one of the first activities at the
village level. These would identify the social, economic and physical characteristics of the
poorest people in blocks selected through the above processes and provide information for a base
line scenario (an agency to assist PFTs in conducting the baseline study would be contracted by
GoCG).
*   Wealth ranking: Gram Sabhas would select project beneficiaries based on objective criteria and
through a process to be monitored through PFTs.
*   Communications: a communication campaign would target the most disadvantaged groups to
give them an early advantage in accessing project resources.
*   Identification ofparticularly vulnerable groups: the project recognizes that the poor are diverse
and some are more vulnerable than others, within the overall strategy of poverty targeting special
efforts have been made to assess the position and condition of women, tribal people and lower
caste groups.
The continuing effectiveness of targeting poor and marginalized people would be an important and
integral part of the project's monitoring and leaming system. (See: Annex 2 and the Project's Operational
Manual).
Women: The Government of Chhattisgarh has shown its concern over gender issues by being one of the
first states to prepare a State Policy For Women Empowerment. This policy is committed to: revise laws
to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women; extend land rights to women; enforce all relevant
legal provisions including the Child Marriage Restraint Act and the Dowry Prevention Act; advocate on
women's rights; implement laws regarding prenatal gender selection, practices of female infanticide,
child marriage, etc., providing concessions in court fees for poor and landless women; and deploying
women police personnel in rural police stations. The State policy also includes measures to promote and
empower self-help groups of women, to improve women's entitlements whether to inputs, resources or
credit, to establish women's control over decisions relating to their livelihood, and facilitate organization
to strengthen their ability to establish their rights as equal citizens. This represents a major departure
from the earlier anti-poverty and welfare programs, which, although important, have characterized
women as passive beneficiaries of, rather than active participants in, the development process. The Policy
provides a sound and useful framework which DRPP can begin to articulate in both word and action.
Structurally, the project would address women's issues in a number of ways:
*   conceptual and applied capacity building of rural women and project staff, in particular PFTs;
*   targeting women who are especially disadvantaged such as SC/ST women, widows and sex
workers;
*   positive discrimination and recruitment of women to the PFTs and the CEO office in the ZP;
*   making the effectiveness of support to women form part of project staffs performance appraisals;
and
*   using communications (a) to ensure that women have full access to information; and (b) as a tool
to change the behavior towards women.
Operationally, at least 30 per cent of CIGs' membership would be women - thus immediately giving
women access to economic opportunity and the empowerment that accompanies economic opportunity
and group action. This would be closely monitored. CIGs themselves would decide on their specific
activities, but the experience with other similar CDD projects indicates that savings and credit groups,
drinking water provision, agriculture and kitchen gardening, and small animal husbandry, are likely to be
- 19-



preferred. Attention would also be paid to supporting other actions and existing government/donor
programs which focus on issues identified as important for women. These include health-related
information and programs, provision of toilet facilities, functional literacy and general motivational
schemes and confidence building interventions. A summary of the GoCG's women's development
strategy and plan is given in Annex 2 Attachment 2. The full paper can be found in the Project
Implementation Plan and is available in the project file.
Tribal: Chhattisgarh has several Acts which protect the interests of tribal people. These include the
Chhattisgarh Land Revenue Code, prohibiting transfer of tribal lands in tribal sub-plan (TSP) areas and
restricting such transfers in non-TSP areas, the Chhattisgarh Money Lending Act and the Panchayat Act
(Extension to Scheduled Areas) which allocates extensive powers to Gram Sabhas in Scheduled Areas
(predomninantly tribal areas). This Act attempts to make local governments in tribal areas a reflection of
the traditional social organization of tribal people. Chhattisgarh has also created special organizations to
protect the interests of tribal people. These include the Scheduled Tribal Commission (a "watchdog"
headed by an NGO representative) and the Minor Forest Produce Cooperative Federation. There are
NGOs in all districts of Chhattisgarh working with tribal people, but few of these NGOs have a proven
track record and demonstrated capacity of effective assistance and service delivery. A number of NGOs
are activist groups, including mass tribal organizations, which focus their work on tribal rights and
entitlements. These groups tend to oppose foreign aid, although they lobby government for more
responsive assistance to tribal people. Finally there are rebellious groups such as the naxalite committed
to overthrowing the state and these groups are active in parts of Chhattisgarh such as Dantewada and
Bastar.
Because tribals are among the poorest people in Chhattisgarh, they would be one of the main
beneficiaries of the project. The project is intended for their own development with all choices of
whether or not to participate in the subproject, the selection of groups, the choice of activities, the
management of funds, and the implementation of the subproject, to be made by them. The project would
therefore improve their well-being in terms wished by them. While the project would not address
directly some of the major issues faced by tribals, such as land alienation and access to forest produce, it
would help empower tribal groups and villages and improve their capacity to negotiate with formal
institutions. Two studies to be completed in the project's first year would guide the project in dealing
with such land and governance obstacles: (a) land administration and common land management; and (b)
traditional systems of governance of tribal people. Recommendations of these studies would be used by
the PFTs to ensure that the project's strategies in tribal areas are tailored to, rather than ignore, the social
context. They would clarify the project's relationships with existing formal and informal institutions and
propose measures to prevent future obstacles.
The project would cover both Tribal Sub-Plan (Scheduled areas or tehsils in which the tribal population
exceeds 50 percent), and non-tribal areas. In Tribal Sub-Plan areas, which are covered by the Provisions
for Extension to Scheduled Areas Act, the project would not only improve the well being of the majority
tribal population and vulnerable non-tribal groups, but would also make assistance available to improve
the planning, management and communications capacity of tribal governments. Many tribal people live
in non-tribal areas. In these areas the project would specially target tribal people through targeted
communication and information campaigns, by giving them priority as for other disadvantaged groups for
group formation and access to resources, and by monitoring performance. This approach is proving
successful in MP where the minority tribal people are over-represented as project beneficiaries. A
summary of GoCG's tribal development strategy for the project is given in Annex 2, Attachment 3. The
full paper is in the project file.
- 20 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The entire project is designed to be participatory in terns of structures, processes and activities. Key
stakeholders include the following:
*   The rural poor, in particular women and tribal people: the project would provide support for the
poor to form and work together as CIGs. CIGs are perceived to be the local organizational
mechanism which would strengthen and enable the poor to take advantage of development
opportunities. CIG members would participate in the identification, planning, implementation,
operation and maintenance of all activities at the local level throughout the project, and would
manage their own project bank accounts. PFTs would carry out detailed consultations and
assessments at the village level as the first activity when starting in a new village, to identify the
target population and understand the key issues faced by them.
*   Project implementors: these include government administration and NGOs. Ownership and
identification with the ideas, activities and processes of the project would be further encouraged
by a highly decentralized decision making system (see 6.4 below) supported by a high quality
project information and monitoring system (Annex 2).
*   Political bodies: The role of the Gram Sabha, Gram Panchayat and the Zilla Panchayats as the
key executing agencies were described above.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project has displayed translated summary versions of the project, the tribal strategy and the EMF in
all the 16 district offices (Zilla Panchayats), and in 12 blocks and all the pilot Gram Panchayats of the
project. Consultations were held during project preparation with a broad cross-section of communities
including women, tribals, elected representatives, a number of NGOs operating in the state, Government
officials including line agencies, academics and independent researchers. The draft Tribal Development
Strategy (TDS) emerged out of State level consultations held in Raipur on March 19-20, 2002, and was
refined after consultations held in nine villages in the pilot district of Bilaspur (two villages between
Aug. 25-26 and seven between Nov. 16-18, 2002). A summary of the draft TDS was translated into the
local language and communicated to the Zilla Panchayat. The summary was also communicated among
the key tribal stakeholders, NGOs, officials and non-officials to facilitate fruitful discussions during the
consultation process. Notifications were also issued inviting the views and suggestions of NGOs for
modifications in the TDS. During appraisal, the participation of scheduled tribes in the planning process
was confirmed.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Institutional arrangements have been selected to:
*   achieve a balance between minimal design (allowing for community driven choice and evolution
and the specificity of different districts) with some basic features to protect the interests of the
poor and marginalized (such as the initial organizational foundations, monitoring and learning
system, information systems, accountability mechanisms, and control of the poor over resources
and decisions);
*   factor into all organizational levels of the project the mandate to use information for decision
making over activities, processes and structures; this would increase local ownership and ensure
that outcomes more closely meet local needs; and
- 21 -



o pay considerable attention to staff selection, recruitment, compensation packages, and terms of
employment; these would ensure that staff have the professional profiles appropriate to a poverty
focused, community dnven project, are happy in their jobs, and are subject to performance
appraisal by their clients.
The Tribal Development Strategy would be implemented through PFTs and District Tribal Development
Officers, as described in Annex 2, Attachment 3, with management oversight and accountability assigned
to the Tribal and Environment Specialist in the SPU. The feasibility of the proposed activities and the
roles and capacity of agencies involved in the strategy were confirmed during appraisal.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Annex 2 provides details on the project's performance monitoring. The Monitoring and Learning system
is designed to (a) support information gathering and analysis by primary users, (b) link this to decision
making for opportunities, and (c) develop optimal information flows between these groups of users or
decision makers. Within the project's administrative structure there would be monitoring cells within the
SPU and in each ZP. The district units would work closely with PFTs. SPU and ZPs would be the
repositories for the data generated through the performance tracking component and would be the
primary users of this data. The ZP's M&L Officer, assisted by project assistants would oversee the data
flow, analysis and reporting. In addition, two types of extemal agencies would be appointed: (a) an M&L
facilitation agency; and (b) an impact evaluation agency. The M&L facilitation agency would play a
crucial role in the early stages on the project as the ideas and techniques of a monitoring learning system
are introduced and developed. The role of this agency would be to facilitate, i.e. its ultimate objective
would be to establish a system and the capacity to use, manage and evolve the system with different
levels of stakeholders (CIG, GP, GS, ZPs, SPU). In addition, an independent impact evaluation agency
would be contracted to undertake the baseline survey at the beginning of the project and impact
evaluation at the end. The TOR for this assignment has been advertised and a shortlist prepared.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
L.. ..      ;    r-.  .  '',','Policy                      gTl    ed--
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         (__Yes C) No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  (U Yes (U) No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    U Yes U No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      () Yes (_) No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 (U Yes (U) No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   (9 Yes (9 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          (3 Yes () No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              (9 Yes ( No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   ( Yes (9 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        (9 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Policy                      Compliance Measures and Comments
Environmental               Based on the EMF, CIG/GP subprojects would be screened to determine an
Assessment (OP 4.01)        appropriate level of environmental assessment. Screening includes
verification against a negative list designed to ensure compliance with all
-22 -



safeguard policies, and a determination of the extent of environmental
assessment required. Following environmental review or assessment,
measures to control environmental risks and enhance benefits are built into
subproject design. The EMF also provides for training in its application to be
given to State, district and community-level project staff, and for the
Environment Agency contracted under the Project to supervise the
implementation and continuing refinement of the Framework.
Pest Management (OP 4.09)   A Pest Management Plan has been developed and incorporated in the EMF. No
subprojects using banned pesticides or agrochemicals in WHO classes IA, IB,
and II would be supported. Crop-related subprojects would incorporate
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approaches.
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) A Tribal Development Strategy has been prepared as an integral part of the
project in accordance with the OD 4.20 on Indigenous People. The tribal
strategy covers two aspects: (1) institutional, relating to participation,
representation, decision-making and resource allocation to tribal development;
and (2) capacity building. The activities identified include: (a) as part of
baseline studies in villages, identify key indicators for participation and
performance; (b) annual review of perforrnance and participation of CIGs and
PFT staff; (c) cross visits between CIGs within a regional cluster; (d) biannual
staff meetings to review progress and exchange experience; (e) annual tribal
CIG representative meeting in each district to review draft report monitoring
results and identify obstacles to tribal participation; (f) annual Progress Report
on impact on tribals with comparative expenditures by district and block; and
(g) training and capacity building of CIGs and PFTs. Two studies to be
completed in the project's first year would guide the project in dealing with
land and governance obstacles: (i) land and livelihood of forest poor, and (u)
traditional systems of governance of tribal people.
Involuntary Resettlement    The project does not envisage any involuntary resettlement. Land requirements
(OP 4.12)                   under the project would be from CIG's own land, CIG purchase or leases, or
voluntary donations. Construction of community infrastructure is to be met
from voluntary donations and documented by agreements signed with the
owners. Any subprojects where Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) is
required, would be disallowed.
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)   No subproject involving a dam (existing or new) of a height of 10 meters or
more would be permitted. To ensure the safety of subprojects involving dams
below 10 meters, the Dam Safety Manual incorporated into the EMF would be
followed.
The Forestry Policy (OP 4.36) and the Natural Habitats Policy (OP 4.04) are not triggered because no
subprojects within national parks would be supported, nor would commercial logging, or any activities
within reserve forests that are prohibited by state or national law. All road rehabilitation and
improvement subprojects would be subject to Limited Environmental Assessment.
- 23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
There are several dimensions of sustainability relevant to the project: (i) sustainability of collective
action and social mobilization; (ii) sustainability of governance reforms at the local level; (iii)
sustainability of flow of investment funds for the village; (iv) sustainability of subprojects; and (v)
sustainability of institutions. The sustainability of community and disadvantaged people's capacity for
collective action would be promoted through the project's demonstration effect. The sustainability of
governance reforms at the local level would depend on the acquired capacity of communities and
disadvantaged groups to exert vigilance and control over government officials. This would be promoted
by creating a habit for good practices, such as public availability of information, inclusion, and
participation in meetings, etc. The sustainability of investment funds for village investments would be
promoted through the constitution of village funds to be financed through community contributions. It is
expected that by the end of the project each village would have on an average about US$9,000 in a bank
account to finance village O&M and investments beyond the life of the project. The sustainability of
subprojects would be promoted by first ensuring that villagers want the subprojects and share in their
cost, and second ensuring that relevant subprojects include an O&M plan proposed by communities.
Finally the sustainability of the various processes piloted through the project would be promoted by
relying on existing, stable, and constitutionally sanctioned institutions to implement the project, such as
ZPs, GPs and GSs.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Interference of line agencies or NGOs      M        Careful design of institutional arrangements
over group and village decisions.                   and processes and monitoring of their
implementation to ensure participation of the
representatives of the poor in decision-making
and priority given to communications and the
ample flow of and accessibility of information.
Poor are unable to create space in local   N        Give priority to supporting groups of poor
organizations.                                      people and use adequate communications about
"rules of the game" under the project.
PFTs have the capacity to support          M         Special orientation and training would be
valuable and vibrant CIGs, GSs and GPs.             carried out for PFTs upfront
GSs and GPs have limited incentives to     M         Special training programs for GPs and
practice participatory budgeting.                    stakeholders and performance based incentives
From Components to Outputs
Limited staff with adequate skills and     M        Intensive training programs.
training.
Beneficiaries are unable or inadequately   N         Closely monitoring and review after one year
organized to contribute to costs of                 with changes introduced if necessary.
implementation or O&M in cash, kind,
labor and/or participation.
- 24 -



Funds advanced by the state government     N         Upfront agreements on funds needed annually.
not adequate.
The project funds would be spread          S         The project design recognizes that CIGs would
widely across CIGs and Gram                          need substantial hands-on support in
Panchayats, who have limited capacity to             bookkeeping and accounting. The financial
handle funds, possessing risks of                    management arrangements have been designed
diversion of funds, inadequate accounting            to recognize the risks and provide for separate
records etc.                                         bank accounts, adequate book keeping
arrangements as conditions for the approval of
the subprojects. Submission of expenditure
statements is also necessary for release of
subsequent tranches of the subproject. In
addition, the project would prepare training
plans to ensure that a cadre of book keepers
and accountants are provided with ongoing
training. Suitable formats of accounting and
reporting have been designed and included in
the Financial Manual.
The SPU would be receiving financial        S        The SPU would closely monitor the financial
reports from sixteen CEO offices that                aspects. Formats for monthly expenditures and
would require analysis and follow-up.                bank reconciliation progress would be made a
There is a risk that financial controls may          part of the reporting system.
be diluted.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
Type of Risk:
Risk Minimization Measure:
NA
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard conditions of Effectiveness
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Covenants related to Project Implementation
a)     Government of Chhattisgarh shall not later than January 31 of each year, starting in 2004,
prepare annual action and procurement plans for implementation of the Project activities, and taking into
account the Association's recommendations, and finalize, not later than March 15 of each year, such
- 25 -



plans.
b)     Government of Chhattisgarh shall maintain the SPU with the staffing and responsibilities agreed
with the Association.
c)     Government of Chhattisgarh shall cause the Beneficiary Institutions to select and appraise the
subprojects under Part B of the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedure specified in the
Operations Manual.
d)     Government of Chhattisgarh shall carry out the Project in accordance with the agreed EMF,
ensure that the environmental and social screening criteria are updated regularly throughout
implementation of the Project, and are at all times consistently and satisfactorily applied.
e)     To ensure that the tribal population in the State benefit fully from the activities under the Project,
Government of Chhattisgarh shall implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the Tribal
Development Plan.
f)     Government of Chhattisgarh shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project
in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Association.
g)     Government of Chhattisgarh shall:
(i)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
(ii) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the
Association not later than September 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluatin activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date of
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following
such date; and
(iii) review with the Association by December 31, 2005, or such later date as the Association
shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take
all measures required to ensure the efficient completio of the Project and the achievement
of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said
reports and the Association's views on the matter.
h)     Chhattisgarh shall, for the purpose of implementing the Environmental Management Framework,
retain consultants with terms of references satisfactory to the Association.
Covenants related to Financial Management Requirements
(a)    Government of Chhattisgarh shall maintain a financial management system, including records
and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound financial management and accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
-t26 -



(b)    Government of Chhattisgarh shall prepare and furnish to the Association separate financial
monitoring reports, (each such a Financial Monitoring Report) in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, which:
(i) sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by
said report, showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the
actual and planned uses of such funds; (ii) describes physical progress in Project Implementation, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report and explains variances between the actual and
planned Project Implementation; and (iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the
end of the period covered by the said report.
(c)    The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association no later than 45 days
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter;
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
2 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
E 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The GoCG has taken significant steps to ensure readiness:
* The SPU has been established and counterpart budget for the first year has been allocated.
* GoCG has selected the Environment Agency and shortlisted agencies for the Baseline survey.
* PFTs are in place in the pilot district of Bilaspur.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
2 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Luis F. Constantino              Constance A. Bernard              Michael F. Carter
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
Key P'erforrnance    Data Collection Strategy
- Hierarcty of O3bjectives    Indicators    .Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support pro-poor rural  Selected human          State data and impact  Fiscal reform.
development interventions. development indicators.  evaluation.        Improved delivery of rural
roads, health and
education.
Reform of anti-poverty
programs.
Decentralization and
privatization.
Project Development     Outcome / Impact        Project reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:             Indicators:
To improve opportunities  (1) Increase income of  (1- 3) Household surveys  The project would have a
for the poor and vulnerable, project beneficiaries.  by an independent agency  scale-up effect and
especially women and                           (pre and post project)  influence the way
tribals, to meet their own  2) Reduction of migration                   anti-poverty programs are
social and economic     among beneficiaries.                            administered.
development objectives.
(3) Participation of                            GoCG sustains its
disadvantaged people,                           decentralization drive and
particularly women and                          realistically addresses
tribals, in village processes.                  associated problems of
governance, jurisdiction
and financing.
No interference by political
activists in project
decisions.
- 28 -



'-          '. KeyPerformance;          ,       , Data Collection Straitegy 
Hierarchy of.Objectives',|    Ir J                                          i
Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(1) Income opportunities  (la) Number of subprojects (la) Performance tracking. No interference of line
for the poor improved.  submitted, funded and                           agencies or NGOs over
implemented.            (lb) Performance tracking. group and village decisions.
(I b) Number of families
benefited.              (1c) Project monitoring
(1c) Costs of subprojects  system.
by category.
(2) Empowered groups of (2a) Percentage of CIG  (2a) Performance tracking  Poor would come together
disadvantaged people    members belonging to poor reports.              in groups and would be
interacting with more   and vulnerable groups.                          able to create space in local
effective, accountable and  (2b) Performance of  (2b) Institutional tracking  organizations.
inclusive GSs and GPs.  para-professionals      reports and annual
supporting CIGs and GPs.  performance evaluations.  PFTs have the capacity to
(2c) Percentage of villagers (2c) Household surveys.  support valuable and
with bank accounts.                             vibrant CIGs, GSs, and
(2d) Percentage of GSs and (2d) Institutional tracking  GPs.
GPs practicing          reports.
participatory budgeting.
(3) Village governments  (3a) Peoples, and in   (3a) Performance tracking  GSs and GPs have
more effective and      particular the poor's   reports.                incentives to practice
responsive to the needs of  perceptions of GS's and                      participatory budgeting.
the poorest.            GP's.
(3b) Percentage of poorest (3b) Institutional tracking
habitations with clean  reports.
drinking water.
- 29 -



Hierarchy  Objectives ] - -..'rforrian.< * iori                 .ptions
Project Components      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
(1) Institutional and   US$ 23.57 million       Project financial       Staff with adequate skills
Human Capacity Building  (Total costs)          management system       and training are available
(a) Formation and       (a) Number of CIGs
strengthening of
organizations
(b) Communications      (b) Percentage of
population aware of project
(c) Human Resource      (c) Percentage of project
Development             stakeholders receiving
training
(d) Strengthening of    (d) Percentage of
Panchayat               Panchayats benefitting
from strengthening
activities
(e) Monitoring and
Learning                (e) Timeliness of the
reports and SPU, ZP fully
staffed
(2) Community           US$ 105.78 million (Total Project financial     Adequate funds are made
Investments             costs)                  management system        available in time by the
state government to ZPs
(a) Matching grants for  (2a & b) 98.30 million                          and executing agencies,
community investments                                                   including counterpart
funds. Beneficiaries are
(b)Matching grant for                                                    able, willing and
Panchayat plans.                                                         adequately organized to
contribute to costs of
(c) Village Funds       (2c) 6.48 million of                            implementation or O&M in
community contributions                         cash, kind, labor and/or
participation. CIGs and
(d) Innovation Funds    (2d) I million disbursed as                      GPs have the capacity to
Innovation Funds                                handle funds. The SPU has
the capacity to process a
large number of reports
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$23.57 million
Human and Institutional Capacity Building.
The main objective of this component would be to create an enabling environment and capacity for
project success and to help develop self-reliant and self-managed community based organizations (formal
and informal). This component would have six main activities:
* Human Resource Development
* Strengthening of Panchayats
* Formation and Strengthening of Organizations
* Communications and Information
* Monitoring, Learning, and Special Studies
* Project Administration
(a) Human Resource Development (US$3.89 million). Human Resource Development (HRD) is the
process by which project stakeholders acquire or improve their ability to meet project objectives. Human
Resource Development activities would be overseen by a capacity building coordinator at the SPU. This
activity would focus on building skills and changing behavior and would comprise the following
elements (full descriptions of each element can be found in the Project Implementation Plan): (1)
Orientation; (2) Reward and performance appraisal system; and (3) Supply-driven and demand-driven
training. Not all project stakeholders would necessarily go through the three elements.
Orientation. Orientation would focus on ensuring that stakeholders understand and are committed to
adopting the project's core values of: participation, empowerment, process orientation, decentralization,
learning, transparency and collaboration. Orientation would be targeted at project staff, elected
representatives (both to the legislative assembly and PRIs), members of the bureaucracy, project
beneficiaries and NGOs. Early Orientation would consist of a foundation course, including an
"orientation camp", which would be mandatory for all project staff. This course would be modeled on
pedagogues of adult education including interactive, experiential learning. Emphasis would be placed on
changing traditional roles of government staff and on community driven development. This course would
assist in identifying further training/learning needs among staff.
Reward and performance appraisal system. The project would develop a reward system to recognize
high quality performance. These rewards would be for the following teams - best CIG in a block; best
Gram Panchayat in a District, best PFT in a district and best ZP in the state. Selection of teams would be
carried out by the SPU and a Coordination Committee, using carefully developed assessment criteria,
with the CIGs having a role in the selection of the best PFT, Panchayat and ZP. In addition, an effective
performance appraisal system giving weight to client assessment of staff performancc would be
developed. This would be linked to the outputs from the project's M&L system.
Training. Broadly two types of training would be provided: (1) basic training to CIGs, GPs GSs, PFTs,
ZPs, SPU staff and staff of line agencies at block level and below, and (2) specialized training to these
groups on demand. Training would be conducted within the state, or where necessary in other parts of
the country. In addition to structured class room courses, learning events, experience sharing seminars
and workshops and cross visits to other similar projects in India and abroad would form a part of the
- 31 -



training. Time schedules, locations, and language would take into account the needs of women, tribals,
poor villagers, field staff and staff and politicians from local governments. Residential training would be
held to the extent possible to enhance infornal interaction. On-going training needs assessment would be
a regular part of project management. To date, the following training needs have been identified:
Common Interest Groups         Basic training on managing groups
Account keeping and record keeping
Technical training
Participation
Project Facilitation Teams      Orientation to objectives, content, and systems of DRPP
"Rules of the Game"
Sensitization to gender, tribals and deprived groups
Linkages between DRPP and other programs
Social Assessment, Baseline and PRA techniques
Dispute resolution
Participation
Zilla Panchayats                Orientation to objectives, content, and systems of the project
Sensitization to gender, tribals and deprived groups
Linkages between DRPP and other programs
Monitoring
Project administration
Financial Management
Procurement
State Project Unit              Project administration
Project Systems
Field staff of line departments  Orientation to objectives, content, and systems of DRPP
Sensitization to gender, tribals and deprived groups
Linkages between DRPP and other programs
Commercial Bank officers        Exposure to the project
Sensitization to needs of CIGs, especially women, tribals and deprived
groups
Implementation. A lead training organization would be contracted to develop a detailed training plan and
strategy. The strategy would: (i) identify resource persons and specialized training agencies in
consultation with the SPU; (ii) design and develop basic training materials for trainers; (iii) train PFTs;
and (iv) provide regular feedback on training activities. The capacity building coordinator in the SPU
would be responsible to ensure that the PFTs, CIG members and other project staff are able to access the
relevant training programs.
(b) Strengthening of Panchayats (US$5.96 million). The project would provide funds to build the
capacity of Panchayats to deliver public services to the villages and become more responsive and
effective in assisting the poorest in the villages. The strategy would be to (a) ensure that these Panchayats
attain a basic level of proficiency in financial management and budgeting, awareness of role and
responsibility of Panchayats, information dissemination and transparency; (b) facilitate participatory
planning by Gram Panchayats in the functions devolved in the state Panchayats Act; (c) build capacity of
the four state training institutes of the state responsible for training of Panchayats; the project would
strengthen the infrastructure of these institutes, develop training and materials and deliver training
programs; (d) provide a lump sum grant to a few Panchayats on a demand basis to finance special
technical assistance needs such as revenue generation management of common resources, etc.; and (e)
provide small grants for Panchayat infrastructure (offices) in about 200 Panchayats, following the
- 32 -



allocation principles of the state government.
An assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of Panchayats (Gram Panchayats, Block Panchayats and
ZPs) in the state would be carried out by an independent agency to ascertain the kind of training and
exposure needed. Initially, however, it is expected that all Panchayats would need focussed programs on:
*   rights and responsibilities of PRIs;
*   sensitization to issues of gender, tribal groups and deprived groups;
*   "rules of the game" of DRPP;
*   financial management;
*   participatory planning;
*   government schemes;
*   participatory meetings; and
*   communications and public relations.
(c) Formation and Strengthening of Organizations (US$5.80 million). The objective of the activity is
to ensure that the most disadvantaged people such as women, tribals, scheduled castes and the disabled
have an early advantage in accessing the project. This would be accomplished by ensuring that the
persons selected to become members of PFTs have the requisite skills and motivation. PFTs would be
either NGOs or government staff seconded to the project based on the following criteria:
*   ability to communicate well and motivate target groups;
*   ability to let communities take charge and lead the process; and
*   ability to spend long hours in the villages.
The PFT selection process for both NGOs and govemment staff would be on the basis of interviews
conducted by a committee comprising the CEO of the relevant ZP, the Project Director and one other
member from the applicant's department. At least 20 percent of the PFT members would be women.
Those selected would be given promotion to one grade higher. The PFT would be under observation for
about one month to assess the quality of its interaction with the community and the intemal team
dynamics. The PFTs would have block level offices and spend about 80 percent of their time in the
villages, explaining the "rules of the game", training CIGs, helping with subproject proposals, interacting
with GPs, attending Gram Sabhas, conducting training and assessing subproject proposals, sending them
to the ZP for technical clearances if needed and certifying the achievement of milestones during
implementation of subprojects. After the first six months, once the CIGs have taken off, the PFTs would
spend more time monitoring the subproject implementation, the GP and GS processes, and provide
information on technical assistance to the CIGs which request it.
All PFT members would undergo a compulsory training on the project processes for about 2 weeks
followed by refresher programs and cross visits for a week during each year of the project. The PFTs
would also carry out the baseline survey data collection and the Panchayat plan preparation.
- 33 -



(d) Communications and Information (US$1.35 million). Communications and information would
serve as a behavior change tool, and would disseminate information and the "rules of the game" of the
project to all stakeholders, and generate interest and support for the project concept among them. The
main objectives of this sub-component are to: (i) provide timely and well targeted information on the
project; (ii) raise awareness, motivate and engage the poor in the project processes, both initially and
later on, to challenge existing barriers and constraints to their development; and (iii) promote a
responsive and cooperative environment within the villages, and among administration, civil society and
political establishment across the state, to endorse the new systems and behaviors initiated by the project.
General Public, Political and Administrative Establishment and the Civil Society: Once the project is
launched, announcements would be made in the state television, radio and local newspapers, giving
broad details about its purpose and how it would be different from other anti-poverty schemes in the rural
areas, how it would increase employment opportunities, and how it would improve income flows.
Villages, PRIs and CIGs: In order to foster greater awareness, build up a sense of being part of an effort
bigger than one's group and village, as well as to facilitate interchange of best practices, ideas and
experiences, so as to bring about greater efficiencies, cooperation and healthy competition among CIGs,
PRIs and villages, the following methods and instruments would be adopted:
o   Groups involved with folk media such as Kala Jaththas (local genre of theatre), folk dances,
puppet shows etc. (with different groups for the three linguistic zones of the state), would be
brought together and introduced to the project so that they understand its purpose, spirit, approach
and methodology. These groups would be given the responsibility to develop various ways of
communicating the project specific to their art form so as to create awareness, enthusiasm,
participation and sharing and transmission of lessons and best practices between the CIGs and
villages.
o   A regular wall newsletter in the local language which acts as a forum for sharing of experiences
and views of CIGs and individuals would also be published and widely disseminated to all
villages, Gram Panchayats and government departments across the state. Periodic campaigns for
social messaging involving dissemination of hand bills as well as wall writings with educative
slogans would also be conducted. Local schools would be involved in this effort by way of essay,
painting competitions and cultural events that promote the values, hopes and approach of the
project.
o   Since the level of literacy is rather low, a 'video newsletter' would be developed and circulated on
a quarterly basis. The newsletter would capture the process, events, impacts and the human
dynamics of various activities with an inspirational and leaming quality. Such videos would be
made in the local dialect and would capture reality in a manner that the villagers would identify
with.
o   Melas (fairs) and social gatherings are an important forum where rural communities come
together and interact with one another. These provide a platform for establishing and building
relationships, sharing information and experiences, discussing problems of mutual interest and
concern, and conducting commerce and trade, and are also an important source of entertainment.
Suchfora, therefore offer an unique opportunity to create supportive and collaborative networks
and arrangements, which may prove fruitful in the overall success of the project. Such gatherings
would take place biannually at the block level and annually at the district level. From the second
year of the project an annual state level event would be organized with participation from the
-34 -



highest levels of the political and administrative establishment.
Establishment of a Documentation Unit at the District Level: The project would develop a data base
(visual, pnnt and multi media) that can be used to disseminate information, create awareness and
engender support. For this (as well as a network of journalists) would be created to document and archive
the processes, achievements, impacts, problems, best practices, experiences and life stories of individuals
and groups on a representative basis. The SPU would draw up on this rich data and archive base to
develop programs and material for widespread dissemination.
Implementation: The primary responsibility for implementing this strategy rests with the
communications coordinator in the ZP team. At the state level an initial communication design consultant
would be contracted to work out the details of the strategy and provide initial training to the district level
communications coordinators, the kala jathas and the PFTs. After the first year of the project the district
level coordinator in collaboration with the PFTs would be responsible to ensure that the messages going
out to villages and PRIs reflect the project developments. The state HRD/communication coordinator
would be responsible to put out the state wide project awareness messages through audio-visual and pnnt
media, development of short films and organizing the awards and fairs.
(e) Monitoring and Learning and Special Studies (US$1.07 million). The Monitoring and Learning
system is designed to (a) support information gathering and analysis by primary users; (b) link this to
decision making for opportunities; and (c) develop optimal information flows between these groups of
users or decision makers. The SPU would issue quarterly reports that would consist of: (a) physical and
financial expenditure data; (b) performance indicators; and (c) briefing notes on successes, problems and
project responses. Annual Reviews (AR) would be carried out jointly by the Govemment and IDA with
the first review to be completed six months after effectiveness. The ARs would be in-depth assessments
of progress and an opportunity to change course where appropriate. As an input to the AR, the SPU
would utilize monitoring information for analysis or, when necessary, commission specific studies of (a)
effectiveness and efficiency of institutional and implementation arrangements; (b) impact of the
institutional and human capacity building activities; and (c) other studies considered necessary by the
Government or IDA. The TORs for the proposed studies would be developed by the SPU and amended as
necessary based on comments provided by the project. The third year AR would be a more
comprehensive Mid-Term Review addressing all aspects of the project.
The table below summarizes the parts of the M&L system, the subject matter of each, instruments to be
used and frequency of reporting.
Summary of M & L System
Component               Subject                  Instrument               Frequency
Performance tracking    Inputs/outputs/outcomes  Pro-forma reporting      CIG - ZP monthly
ZP - SPU quarterly
Institutional Tracking  Organizational performance  Institutional Maturity Indexing Annual
ntemal Learming        Project processes        1. Group Self Assessments  1. Six monthly
2. Exchange Visits       2. Annual (minimum)
Evaluation              Project Impacts & outcomes  1. Peer Reviews       I Annual
2 Development Audit      2. Biennial
3. Impact Evaluation     3. Before & after project
Indicators, Instruments, Periodicity and Responsibility. Components and instruments of M&L would be
refined over the life of the project as information needs emerge and as capacities and systems to
undertake different monitoring activities develop.
- 35 -



(i) Performance tracking would monitor the following indicators:
o   number of CIGs projected/formed;
o   percentage of CIG members belonging to poor & vulnerable groups (key indicator);
o   number of CIG and GP members receiving training by type of training;
o   participation in CIGs, GS and GP activities and decision making;
o   purpose and amount of subprojects: submitted, approved, implemented;
o   time taken for submission, approval and release of funds for subprojects;
o   number of subprojects abandoned, delayed, completed on time, continuing to function;
o   number of assets created by category;
o   number of CIG groups/group members obtaining bank loans (key indicator);
o   number of families benefitted (key indicator);
o   average cost of subproject component to government standards (key indicator);
o   amount of cash contributions by CIG members to CIG activities; and
o   number of GPs providing clean drinking water to the poorest habitations.
All data would be disaggregated by social and economic group and gender, where relevant. The above
indicators would be monitored on a quarterly basis. Performance tracking information would be
reviewed at a monthly district level meeting of the ZP. ZP staff would periodically monitor PFTs
functioning and attend CIG/GS meetings to obtain first hand information of the implementation process.
The ZP would pass on to the SPU electronic summaries of performance data along with any narrative
commentary on a quarterly basis. The SPU would prepare summaries of this information for the entire
project area and submit input and output reports on a six monthly basis to Gol and the World Bank.
(ii) Institutional Tracking would monitor:
o   overall institutional maturity score of CIG/GS/GP;
o   inclusiveness rank of CIG/GS/GP; and
o autonomy rank of CIG/GS/GP.
An Institutional Maturity Index (TM!) comprises an aggregate of indicators but only (a) the overall
aggregate score, (b) the inclusiveness rank and (c) the autonomy rank of each organization would be
entered into electronic monitoring base. While the construction of IMIs may vary between CIGs, GPs and
GSs levels, the IMI and all its component indicators would be used consistently within organizational
levels across all project locations e.g. the same indicators would be used for all CIGs, or all GSs or all
GPs. The IMI would be applied on an annual basis for all levels of project organization. Data would be
entered into the project's computerized data base by the ZP M&L officer. Analysis of these data may
trigger a special study. Summary reports, containing data and commentary would be forwarded to the
SPU on an annual basis.
(iii) Internal Learning would monitor indicators to be generated by Group Self Assessments and
Exchange Visits. The objective of groups self assessments and exchange visits is generation of
information about processes and cause-effect relations. This would enable (a) learning within groups
(CIG/PFT/GS/GP); (b) horizontal learning between groups of the same nature (CIG to CIG etc); and (c)
vertical learning within the project e.g. CIG to GP.
Group Self Assessment. These would take place at regular intervals throughout the project. The purpose
is to enable staff and organizations/groups within the project to (a) reflect on information available
through the monitoring system and benchmarks designed by themselves; (b) relate that to their own
- 36 -



performance; and (c) use that analysis to re-frame activities, systems and approaches. These scheduled
events would also enable the project to learn from experience and refine policy governing what the
project does and how it does it. Each CIG, PFT, GP and ZP would periodically undertake
self-assessment on the goals it sets for itself and measure them using indicators it selects.
Self-assessments would track levels of satisfaction/dissatisfaction of the groups, capacities to manage
activities, to solve problems, to mobilize resources and manage responsibility. PFTs would be
responsible for reporting on the outcomes of CIG and GP group self assessments and exchange visits to
the concerned ZP. The ZP would make this information publicly available and work with the
conmmunications of the project to develop appropriate mechanisms. Annual summaries would be passed
on to the SPU. In order for these group self assessments to be useful and be taken seriously by
group/organization members, each must be empowered to take decisions on the basis of their collective
analysis. They may also need to be effectively linked to a higher level of decision making body who
would respond quickly and effectively when required.
Exchange visits would be used for cross-group learning. These would involve expenence sharing and
learning from groups with similar interests e.g. CIGs formed around the same activity, GPs addressing
similar issues, ZPs managing particular project components. Peer reviews would focus on a limited
number of activities or topics. Because the emphasis is on constructive lessons, topics of the exchange
would normally be those with which at least one group is having positive experiences. A minimum of
two exchange visits per year between CIGs is anticipated.
(iv) Evaluation would comprise of two activities: Peer reviews and Impact Evaluation.
Peer Reviews combine cross-group learning with evaluation. Each group (CIG, GP, PFT, ZP) would be
peer reviewed. Outcomes of these exercises would contribute to performance appraisals but would also
support experience sharing and generate information which can be used to track project effectiveness.
Where possible peer reviews would be undertaken by a group of the same type and with experience of
similar activities. Descriptive information would be generated and reported using narrative text but
certain indicators would be extracted from this for feeding into the quantitative project monitoring data
base.
Impact evaluation would as far as possible establish the net effect of the project on economic
opportunity, inclusion, vulnerability and capabilities of different groups of poor people. Findings would
be relevant for subsequent phases of the DRPP, for designing other similar projects and would be of
sufficient quality to inform policy discourse. Measuring impact would involve comparing qualitative and
quantitative outcomes before and after the project, and between project and control areas. It is accepted
that attribution of causality would be difficult and involve acknowledging some very major assumptions.
The impact study would require a rigorous methodology and high quality analysis. Changes in poverty
and poverty causing factors would be assessed through indicators such as increase in earnings of the
target groups, in land yield, in access to water, health and education facilities, and in their skills and
organizing capacity. The project impact would also be measured in terms of increased and strengthened
social capital of vulnerable groups in project villages. The indicators of social capital include strength of
formal and informal village networks, capacity of members to form new groups, members' knowledge
and participation in existing government programs and the responsiveness of PRI and government
administration to the needs of the poor. An independent organization would be appointed to undertake
the baseline and end survey in a sample of project and control villages.
(v) Special Studies. An additional source of learning would be studies on economic, institutional and
social aspects of the project including: (a) Government's Rural Development Programs and other
- 37 -



Safety-nets; (b) Land Administration/Common Land Management with a focus on the forest poor; (c)
Fiscal Decentralization and Revenue Generation at the state, district and village level; and (d) Traditional
Systems of Governance of Tribal People. Other studies may also be recommended as thought necessary
by the Association and GoCG.
09 Project Administration (US$5.50 million). Project Administration would focus on (a) day to day
project management; and (b) supporting executing agencies at the district and village levels. Details of
Project Administration including duties and responsibilities of implementing agencies are included in the
Operational Manual.
At the state level, a Coordination Committee would ensure that the relevant state departments and
programs support the project in a coordinated fashion. The Committee would be chaired by the Chief
Minister, vice-chaired by the Minister of Rural Development and Panchayats and would also include the
Minister of Tribal Affairs, the Secretary (Finance), Secretary RD, and the Project Director (Secretary). It
would also include four representatives from the districts (2 each from administrative and political
government) and representatives from two NGOs. District and NGO seats would rotate every two years.
A small SPU has been established in the Department of Panchayats and Rural Development and would
assume monitoring and supervision functions, but would not intervene in project implementation and
decision-making. The SPU is staffed with a Project Director, a Capacity Building Coordinator, a
Monitoring and Learning Coordinator, a Communications Manager, a Tribal and Enviromnent Specialist,
a Financial Management Specialist, and an Administration and Procurement Specialist.
At the district level, the Zilla Panchayat in each of the sixteen project districts would be responsible for
project implementation and management. The ZP would also assume important monitoring and
evaluation functions, as well as decision-making responsibilities regarding district level issues, capacity
building activities, and assess village performance in targeting the poor and fostering participation, and
make budget allocation decisions. For project administration the ZP would be assisted by its CEO who
would be supported by a small number of project specific staff, including a financial management
specialist, a gender and capacity building specialist, communications specialist, a tribal and
environmental specialist and a technical and procurement specialist.
At the village level, project decision-making and implementation would be shared between the village
Gram Sabha and the Gram Panchyat. Gram Sabhas would ratify subproject proposals and Panchayat
plans and be a forum for discussion. GPs would receive CIG project proposals, prioritize them, search for
alternative financing sources including from the project, submit them to the Gram Sabha for ratification,
and channel them to the ZP for financing. GPs would develop village plans and submit to the GSs for
approval. Some of the subprojects in the village plans would be co-financed by the project following
procedures similar to CIG subprojects.
At the people's level, the key project organization would be informal groups of people, CIGs. CIGs would
comprise disadvantaged people with a shared interest who come together to act upon them. These could
be existing groups such as watershed associations or self-help groups, or groups to be formed. CIGs
would undertake initiatives using their own resources, by accessing on-going programs, or by submitting
proposals for project support. In most cases CIGs would assume responsibility for their implementation.
Group formation would be promoted and assisted by Gram Panchayats.
- 38 -



Project Component 2 - US$105.78 million
Village Investments
(a) Matching grants for community investments (US$64.79 million). The project would provide
matching grants to groups of disadvantaged people to finance priority, small-scale, collective
investments, identified by the groups themselves. Groups would be composed of people who come
together around a common need, and could be as small as five people or as large as the entire population
of several villages (for larger multi-village projects). It is expected that about 20,000 subprojects would
be financed, covering primarily productive investments (e.g. micro-enterprises, minor irrigation, animal
husbandry, etc.). Subproject proposals for all forms of investments would observe standard procedures,
documentation and technical, social, environmental and sustainability criteria, as set forth in the project's
Operational Manual (in the project file). In addition to contributing 5% towards the cost of each
subproject, groups would have to raise 10% in cash on top of subproject costs (in lieu of cost recovery)
which would be deposited in village funds for future use by communities.
(b) Matching grants for Panchayats Plans (US$33.51 million). The project would co-finance
subprojects in Panchayat plans in about 2000 Panchayats covering the selected villages. These small
subprojects would cover investments within the functions devolved to Panchayats, such as small rural
roads, health posts, community halls, school rehabilitation, drinking water, sanitation, electrification,
management of Panchayat lands, management of tanks, etc. All target Panchayats would initially be
eligible to receive a small budget from the project, but for continuing project support they would need to
meet the following criteria: (a) positive support to the project through communications, CIGformation
and conducting of participatory Gram Sabhas; (b) provision of safe drinking water to the poorest
habitations; and (c) satisfying basicfinancial management standards. All GP subprojects would require
community contributions of up to 5% in cash and the GS would decide how funds would be raised.
Panchayat plans would be financed from other sources of funding as well, and would need to be
discussed and approved by the Gram Sabha.
(c) VillageFunds (US$6.48 million). Communities would have to contribute 10% of subproject costs
upfront (before second tranche is released) towards cost recovery which would be deposited in a village
fund under the GP. The main purpose of the Village Fund is to create a culture of local taxation and cost
recovery in exchange for improved services and to ensure project sustainability at the village level
beyond its lifetime. Community contributions could be met by own savings (e.g. of Credit and Savings
Groups), Bank loans, or labor. Wage earners would be paid wages and could contribute a proportion of
this income towards the village fund. The village funds would create village capital to be used for village
and group investments beyond the life of the project.
(d) Innovation Funds (US$1.00 million). About one million dollars would be earmarked for
demonstration subprojects to be initiated by PFTs, NGOs, private sector, or any other entities. These
would be reviewed and approved by the SPU. They could for example include subprojects to
demonstrate improved technologies that communities are initially hesitant to adopt, subprojects to
demonstrate improved environmental management, and others.
Targeting. The project would cover all the 16 districts of Chhattisgarh. Within each district two or
three blocks have been chosen on the basis of poverty and backwardness. Published data on the
following indicators was used to select blocks:
*   proportion of scheduled tribe population and their literacy;
*   proportion of scheduled caste population and their literacy;
*   gender ratio and change in gender ratio;
- 39 -



o   juvenile gender ratio and change in juvenile gender ratio;
o   illiteracy and female illiteracy;
o   un-enrolled children in primary schools;
o   incidence of malaria;
o   percentage of working population engaged as agricultural and mining laborers;
o   children below the age of 14 engaged as workers;
o   percentage of area under agriculture;
o   percentage of cropped area under irrigation;
o   existing markets and mandis;
o   percentage of population that migrates;
o   villages not connected by pucca roads;
o   roads per 100 km;
o   level of ground water availability;
o   rainfall data during the last 3 years;
o   number of schemes or provision of piped drinking water in the block (indicator of development);
o   distance from district headquarters or large city; and
o   connectivity.
The number of indicators used and relative weights differ from district to district to account for their
specific situation. For example in a district with poor agriculture, the percentage of population working
as agricultural laborers received greater weight than in a district with rich, irrigated, agriculture.
Similarly, the proportion of tribal population received greater weight in non-tribal areas, since in these
areas tribal people are worse-off. Similar criteria has or would be used to select clusters of villages
within a block, but selection would also be based on field visits. All villages within a Gram Panchayat
would be included.
Household targeting would be carried out for income generating activities. Groups (CIGs) eligible to
receive matching grants for income generating activities would need to meet the following criteria:
o   all Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste households;
o   all women and women headed households;
o   households where at least one member migrates as wage labor;
o   households having no permanent dwellings or whose houses need repair every year;
o   all landless and marginal farmers; and
o   the 70% poorest households as identified by the Gram Sabha through a wealth ranking exercise.
It is expected that in most villages the entire village would be eligible for subprojects and in these cases
the 70% criteria would not be used. For GP subprojects included in village plans all households in the
village would be eligible as beneficiaries.
Rules of the Game. There is a simple set of rules to determine the eligibility of subprojects, which
would be enforced and/or monitored by PFTs, GSs and GPs. These rules are that:
o   subproject must benefit the poor (see above);
o   subproject must be initiated by CIGs or GPs (as part of village plans) and not by NGOs, PFTs, or
state government officers or politicians;
o   CIG members would self select themselves;
o   subproject funds are deposited in a CIG account or GP account;
o   subproject must be technically sound, simple and manageable;
-40 -



*   CIGs can implement the subproject or contract it (or parts of it) out; GPs would form CIGs or
contract out;
*   where relevant the subproject must include an O&M plan, and in certain cases, it should also
include provisions for community contributions towards an O&M fund;
* subprojects should be in addition to investments under government schemes;
*   land based subprojects should be carried out on public or group land, and if the proposed land is
private, there must be an appropriate voluntary contract between the'land owner and CIG;
*   if subproject is for completion of damaged or incomplete work, an investigation of why work
was not completed would be necessary;
*   at least one CIG member should have experience relevant to the subproject;
*   the subproject must adopt practices of transparency and economy;
*   CIGs must contribute at least 15% of the cost of the subproject in cash (5% to the subproject and
10% to a village fund);
*   GPs must contribute at least 5% of the cost of the subproject;
*   maximum subproject cost would be $650 per family and no family would benefit more than $650
during the lifetime of the project, except through GP subprojects;
*   there is no involuntary resettlement;
*   subproject must not have adverse environmental impacts and if it does appropriate mitigating
measures must be undertaken; and
*   all decision-making meetings, whether within CIGs or GSs, must be participatory and inclusive,
particularly towards women and scheduled tribes and castes.
Negative list. A wide range of group activities would be eligible for financing. The following activities
would not be financed (details in Operational Manual):
*   individual projects;
*   consumption activities;
*   facilities which do not increase the productivity of the poor such as public administration
buildings, facilities for political or labor organizations, or religious buildings;
*   resettlement or construction on private land, unless there is consensus among all;
*   land acquisition;
*   subprojects not screened for environmental impacts;
*   activities likely to cause damage to wildlife, or likely to cause damage to a sanctuary by setting
fire, injuring wildlife, or involving indiscriminate felling of trees or indiscriminate removal of
plant, animal or mineral produce from a sanctuary;
*   activities located within a national park;
*   construction/rehabilitation of a dam (old or new) of 10 meters or more in height;
*   agricultural activities that do not incorporate integrated pest management (IPM) approaches;
*   subproject that intends to use banned pesticides, agrochemicals in WHO Classes IA, IB and II;
*   subproject that involves manufacturing, sale, stocking, distribution or exhibiting for sale of
pernissible pesticides without a licence; and
*   activity that could damage cultural property.
Technical assistance. CIGs/GPs would procure technical assistance for project preparation or
implementation from private sector, NGOs or govemment agencies. Seven percent of subproject costs
would be earnarked for technical assistance.
Subproject Cycle. The identification, preparation and implementation of subprojects would be the
responsibility of Common Interest Groups or GPs. The first priority would be to ensure that everybody
- 41 -



knows the "rules of the game", that the project is "trusted" and has credibility, that the most
disadvantaged groups have the first chance to benefit from the project, and that they are sufficiently
empowered to participate in village decision-making.
o   CIG subprojects. PFTs would play a critical role in communicating the project, assisting the first
groups prepare proposals and monitor the quality of decision-making at the village level. CIG
subprojects would be approved by the Gram Sabha (GS) based on rules included in the
Operational Manual and which would ensure appropriate targeting, the quality of the CIGs, the
adequacy of contributions and the technical, financial, environmental and operation and
maintenance aspects. Technical, environmental and O&M sanctions would be given by the PFT
up to $5000 and by appropriate government experts at the block or district level for larger
projects (details in Operational Manual). PFTs would monitor the quality of participation at the
Gram Sabha level.
o   GP subprojects. GP subprojects would be included in Panchayat plans (village plans). These
would cover public goods and services devolved to Panchayats. GPs would call GSs meetings
to discuss village plans where villages would come up with their proposals for inclusion in the
village plan. GPs would be responsible for prioritizing investments, finalizing the plans,
identifying funding sources including from DRPP, resubmitting them to the GS for approval and
channelling them to the District for any final sanction needed or to kick-off disbursements.
Multi-village subprojects would be approved by the ZP. Subprojects to be financed by the Innovation
Fund would be approved by the SPU.
Budgets and financial limits. The project budget available for each village would be on the basis of
$650 per eligible household. The average budget per Panchayat would be $5 per capita initially and
another $5 per capita once performance milestones are reached.
- 42 -



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Environmental Assessment
From an environmental perspective, only the community investment component raises issues. To address
this concern, an EMF was developed. To ensure the effective implementation of the framework, an EA
has been selected and would be contracted by the SPU shortly after Board approval. This summary
presents the principal elements of the EMF, and then briefly discusses the role of the EA. The Terms of
Reference for the EA are included in the Project Implementation Plan.
Environmental Management of the Community Investments
The community investments to be financed under the project would consist both of income-generating
activities and small-scale infrastructure. In most cases, the small scale of these interventions would
prevent environmental impacts of significance. All subproject proposals would, however, be subject to an
environmental screening exercise in order to:
*   prevent execution of subprojects with potentially significant negative environmental impacts;
*   decrease potential minor negative impacts through modifications in subproject design, location or
execution;
*   prevent or mitigate cumulative negative impacts as the result of multiple small-scale investments;
*   enhance the positive impacts of subprojects;
*   prevent additional stress on environmentally-sensitive areas; and
*   through learning by doing, introduce environmental concerns into local decision-making.
To meet these objectives, an Environmental Assessment Report (EAR) has provided the following inputs
to the design of the overall project:
*   a methodology and administrative structure for environmental management;
*   an environmental capacity-building and awareness-raising program; and
*   an environmental supervision and monitoring plan.
The requirements of the EAR are included in the projects' Operational Manual.
Methodology and Administrative Structure for Environmental Management
All subprojects submitted for funding would be subject to an environmental screening process with the
following steps:
(a)    Determination of the Level of Environmental Analysis Required. Using the Environmental
Screening Criteria included in the Environmental Assessment Report, the PFT/GP would
determine the level of environmental analysis required. Some subprojects, included in a negative
list, would not be eligible for funding (see Annex 2, main text). The options would be as
follows:
*   Environmental Review (ER) - to be applied to subprojects considered to be environmentally
beneficial or benign;
*   Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA) - required for subprojects with minor potential
impacts; and
*   Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) - required for subprojects with significant
potential impacts. In most cases these subprojects would not be eligible for funding.
- 43 -



(b)    Environmental Analysis and Mitigation If the subproject requires an ER, this would be
completed by the PFT/GP using the Environmental Review Guidelines, an environmental
mitigation checklist providing standard guidance for mitigation of potential minor environmental
impacts. The completed checklist would be submitted with the subproject proposal to the ZP for
review prior to subproject approval. In the case of subprojects requiring an LEA, the ZP would
be responsible for ensuring that it is conducted according to a generic TORs by a local consultant
approved by the EA. Subprojects requiring an ELA would be forwarded for review to the SPU,
which would request an estimate of the EIA cost from the EA.
Environmental Capacity-building and Awareness-raising
One of the principal tasks of the EA appointed by the SPU would be to provide adequate training to
allow the PFTs, GPs/ZPs and SPU staff, and approved local environmental consultants, to fulfill their
environmental responsibilities. To meet this goal, the EA would prepare four training courses as follows:
o   Environmental Awareness - raising for DRPP beneficiaries and GPs;
o   Basic Environmental Screening and Mitigation for PFTs;
o   Environmental Screening and Mitigation for ZP and SPU Staff; and
o   Limited Environmental Assessment for environmental consultants.
These courses would be prepared and delivered in close consultation with the SPU, Human
Development, and Tribal and Environment Coordinators.
Environmental Supervision, Monitoring and Auditing
(a)    Environmental SupervisionL Supervision of EMF implementation would be conducted at two
levels. At the district level, as part of their overall supervisory responsibilities, ZP staff would
verify that PFTs are correctly using the environmental screening and mitigation checklists and
guidelines, and that the environmental mitigation measures included in the approved subproject
proposal are implemented. The ZPs would verify these matters for the same sample of
subprojects as they use for other supervisory requirements, and the results would be included in
their overall supervision reports provided to the SPU. These supervision reports would be
submitted to the EA for review of EMF implementation. At the state level, the EA would
conduct six-monthly supervisions of EMF implementation, of a representative sample of ER,
LEA and EIA category subprojects. The EA would verify whether the screening process was
correctly applied, suitable mitigation measures specified, and the measures correctly
implemented. The supervision report, to be submitted to the Project Coordinator, would include
recommendations for improving either the EMF approach, or its implementation.
(b)    Environmental Monitoring It would be the responsibility of the EA to remain abreast of
changing environmental conditions and emerging environmental concerns in DRPP areas. This
would not be achieved through the collection of primary data, but rather through monitoring
information collected and provided by government and civil society sources. On the basis of this
information, the EA would recommend revisions to the EMF, and highlight local concerns to the
ZPs. Details of changing conditions, emerging concerns, recommended revisions, and local
issues would be included in the six-monthly supervision reports provided to the SPU.
- 44 -



(c)    Environmental Auditing. To provide an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the
design and implementation of the EMF, once every two years the SPU would contract an
environmental audit of DRPP, to be conducted by an independent organization competent in this
field. The principal focus of the audit would be the extent to which the EMF has led to the
implementation of appropriate environmental mitigation measures in DRPP subprojects, and has
promoted the implementation of environmentally-beneficial subprojects. A secondary goal of the
audit would be an assessment of the extent to which the DRPP may have led to improvement or
deterioration in environmental quality.
Role of the Environment Agency
At the state level, the SPU would appoint an EA to undertake a range of environmentally-related
activities. The mission of the EA would be to:
*   prevent environmental degradation as a result of either: (a) the cumulative effects of many small
DRPP investments that individually have a negligible impact; or (b) the impact of individually
harmful subprojects. This duty would be fulfilled without imposing an unnecessary
administrative burden on the project;
*   promote the implementation of subprojects that would be expected to lead to improvements in
local environmental quality; and
*   build capacity for environmental management at the local, district and state levels.
In order to achieve this mission, the EA would undertake six principal tasks:
*   the design and provision of training in environmental management;
*   supervision of the implementation of the Environmental Management Framework of DRPP;
*   monitoring of environmental conditions to ensure that the EMF remains responsive to
environmental concerns;
*   estimation of the cost of undertaking specific subproject EIAs as requested by the SPU;
o   specific subproject EIAs which may be requested by the SPU, but undertaken under separate
contracts; and
c   the provision of ad hoc technical support on environmental issues, as requested by the SPU or
ZPs.
-45 -



Annex 2
Attachment 2
Women's Development Strategy
While the gender ratio is higher in Chhattisgarh than in all other Indian states except Kerala, mostly due
to a high gender ratio among tribal people, women are still marginalized as evidenced by low female
literacy and other human development indicators. Malnutrition is a common feature amongst women in
rural areas and among these widows and old women are a specially vulnerable group. The experience of
women in local governments has shown that gender disadvantage in literacy translates into gender
disadvantage in political participation.
Government Strategy
The Government of Chhattisgarh is firmly committed to capitalize on its 'new state advantage'. The
State has taken a conscious decision to adopt a new State Policy on Women's Empowerment. The State's
strategy recognizes the need for increased participation of women for achieving rapid social, economic
and cultural development of the state. GoCG's strategy proposes to address a number of issues including
gender based occupational stereotyping, male selective migration in the context of industrialization,
female illiteracy, impeding cultural practices and attitudes, dominance of women in marginal
employment, lack of access to basic facilities, discrimination against the girl child, etc. Salient features of
Chhattisgarh's Women's Empowerment Policy are to:
o   adopt, enact, review and revise wherever necessary laws to eliminate all forms of discrimination
against women; and implement laws regarding prenatal sex selection, practices of female
infanticide, child marriage, etc, to eliminate all forms of discrimination against the girl child;
o   earmark at least 10 % of the social sector spending for supporting women's income generating
activities, encourage access to low cost credit to women groups through financial institutions,
and encourage and recognize women as farmers;
o   encourage the use of common lands in rural areas by women groups to cater to the fuel and
fodder needs of the villages;
o   provide safe drinking water to the entire village to reduce the burden on women in the carrying of
heavy head loads of water;
o provide training to women to promote skills for income generating activities like handloom
weaving, traditional Chhattisgarh arts, handicrafts, terracotta, sale of compost, collection of
waste, use of sewing machines as well as focus on information, technology, biotechnology, etc.;
o   facilitate the formation of women groups and their training for collection, value added
processing, preservation, storage and trade of non- timber forest produce; and
o   ensure women have access to affordable and proper health care, information and related services;
Women's Strategy in DR]PP
There is a need for intensive efforts in developing the confidence and capability of women particularly
the more marginalized groups so that they are enabled to tackle the more complex issues under the
project. Women's empowerment would cover social, economic, and political aspects. Some of the areas
for action are:
o   Capacity Building: The strategy is to build the capacity of the PFTs and the leadership of the
project to understand the needs of women. The primary thrust would be therefore in building the
capacity of key staff (PFT members, and the leadership at the ZP) to develop skills in social and
political analysis as they relate to women. A gender sensitization module would be included in
-46 -



the project's orientation program;
*   Targeting There is a need to work with SC/ST women in particular. This would be highlighted
in all training and PFTs would be equipped to address this requirement. The review and
monitoring processes would assess the status and effectiveness of this training;
*   Developing a Learning Culture: Meetings to discuss women's issues within DRPP would be
facilitated carefully because the experience elsewhere has been that they become routine affairs
with very little reflection and analysis and feed back into the project process;
*   Recruitment of women in the PFTs: At least twenty, and possibly fifty percent members of PFTs
would be women. To attract women for these positions the project would offer: (a) an attractive
compensation package; (b) safe living and working environment; and (c) mobility. In addition to
mobility, women would also be provided safe and secure living conditions where they are based
and during travel to project areas;
*   State and District Staffing: The SPU would include a gender specialist. The gender specialist
would play a proactive role in mainstreaming women's issues in project processes. This would
entail working closely with all technical managers at the district level and strengthening the on
going processes of communication, training, documentation, group formation, and investment
opportunities (including marketing);
*   Creation of a pool of women development workers: As a long term goal, DR.PP would help in the
creation of pool of women development workers through experience in project implementation
combined with formal training through seminars, guest lectures, and optional courses in gender
studies;
*   Activities likely to be demanded by women: the project would support activities chosen by
women. Among activities expected to benefit women are: (a) health related interventions; (b)
drinking water; (c) provision of toilet facilities; (d) functional literacy and confidence building
activities; (e) women only village meetings; (f) exposure visits to successful initiatives by
women; (g) kitchen gardens and small animal husbandry; and (h) agriculture and related
activities; and
*   Information and communication: special attention would be paid to the design of messages and
the method of communication to ensure that women receive the intended messages. Places
frequented by women, household level messaging and focus groups would be organized to
disseminate information about the project.
- 47 -



Annex 2
Attachment 3
Tribal Development Strategy for D]ORPPI
The following are the goals of the strategy for tribal development within the project over and above the
fundamental strategies of DRPP (participation, equity and decentralization):
o   fair participation and representation of tribals at all levels of the project with a view to influence
its decisions and outcomes for the tribal constituents;
o   ensuring protection of social, economic and cultural interest of tribal communities in project
interventions among both the tribal and non-tribal groups;
o   overcoming structural constraints to poverty and deprivation among tribals through direct
socio-economic interventions as well as induced actions under other available public resources
and legal provisions of the Government;
o   optimizing productivity of community and privately held land, water, forest and livestock
resources among tribal people to ensure food security and generate sustainable surplus;
o   enhancing options for labor and improving conditions surrounding returns from labor as a
growing basis for livelihood activity for most tribal families in the region; and
o   rigorous capacity building of tribals' village level organizations and its leadership to plan,
prioritize and place demands on the project services and resources.
At the village level, the tribal strategy would ensure the following:
o   The project would attempt to cover and facilitate the participation of all the tribal BPL families
in a settlement.
o   In those villages where the ST population is above 30 percent, tribal women would be
encouraged to form the first CIG. This would demonstrate the priorities of the DRPP and
establish clearly the population with which it is most concerned.
o   Number of proposals approved, investments made in tribal CIGs, and the quality of performance
and participation of tribal CIGs would count as key indicators of a village's performance and
would influence the decisions related to future allocations in that village. Target area would get
less money if the number of proposals, investments made and participation quality fall below a
minimum threshold. Annual reviews would be done in a humane manner, so that a community is
not penalized for bad performance for reasons beyond its control such as natural disaster.
o   The state government has made laws and rules for distributing surplus land to the landless and
safeguarding tribal's land. But lack of awareness regarding these land laws is a root cause of
alienation of tribals from their land through illegal means. The project would support a special
module targeted at PFTs and PRIs for making the landless and tribals aware of provisions made
by the state government to safeguard tribal's land.
o   Most tribal villages are situated in remote areas and their accessibility to government programs is
below average. Therefore, PFT members would make frequent contacts in those villages and
organize frequent orientation programs. To ensure this ZPs would identify those villages and
would monitor the progress regularly.
At the district level, the following are envisaged:
o   Coverage of the tribal population, investments in tribal CIGs and performance would be
monitored and reported and form part of staff/PFT performance appraisal and reward systems.
-48 -



*   An annual meeting of all tribal CIG representatives from within the district would be organized
by the project office in order to collectively review progress and problems faced by the project
and its tribal partners. Separate budget provision of about Rs. 2,500/ per meeting would be made
under the project for these meetings.
*   The project office would remain alert to moves to subvert equal participation of tribal CIGs in
DRPP. This would be carried out through extensive review with PFTs and the monitoring of
norms specified under village level measures above.
O   To ensure adequate pooling of experience and formulation of shared strategies to work with
tribal communities, project teams would interact at the regional level. Though there are no
regional level structures envisaged in DRPP, project teams from five districts would be formed
into one regional cluster on the basis of the homogeneity of tribal's socio-economic profile.
There would be three such clusters, two with five districts and one with six districts. CIGs that
perform well would be selected for cross visits so that healthy exchange of ideas would take
place. Separate budget provisions within the project would be made for cross visits. One cross
visit within each regional cluster would be organized every year. Cross visits would begin from
the second year of the project.
o   ZPs would identify local influential people, tribal PRI members, and NGO organizations to work
with PFTs in the orientation program.
The SPU would convene a six monthly regional meeting of district officers responsible for overseeing
and monitoring tribal development activities. These meetings would be used to review the progress with
tribal CIGs, exchange experiences and share strategies relevant to tribal development. There would be six
meetings of this kind every year and separate budget provisions have been made for each meeting.
At the state level, the SPU would:
o   monitor the project's tribal development strategy and programs in and across districts; and
*   produce an annual public report, together with comparative expenditure, on the impact of DRPP
on tribal people's lives and livelihoods in the DRPP districts.
- 49 -



Identification of specific activities
Tasks that relate to the tribal strategy would be built into DRPP operations and work strategies. Tribals
constitute a vast number of the poor in the state and the areas they reside are also the poorest in the state.
However, tribals in Chhattisgarh are not as marginalized, voiceless of powerless as in other states and
they are recognized both for their poverty, for their strengths and potential, and for political and social
voice. PRI institutions have a large number of local tribal leaders as members or office bearers. The
strategy for tribal development is to utilize this strength in awareness building and furthering the project
activities. Several activities to promote developmnent of tribals have been identified and are summarized
in the box below.
a. As part of baseline study, set realistic minimum ST thresholds.
b. Identify key indicators for:
o number of proposals approved;
o investments made by CIG;
o quality of participation of tribals; and
o quality of performance of tribal CIGs
c. Set the minimum participation and performance threshold based on the above indicators (These may be
different for different areas and groups).
d. Monitor performance of CIGs based on the minimum threshold.
e. Annual review of performance and participation of CIGs.
f. Design an annual allocation pattern sensitive to the performance of the CIGs.
g. Monitor participation results for CIGs and PFT staff.
h. Organize cross visits between CIGs within a regional cluster.
i. Biannual staff meeting to review progress and exchange experience.
j. Annual tribal CIG representative meeting in each district to review draft report monitoring results and identify
obstacles to tribal participation.
k. Annual Tribal Strategy Progress Report on impact on tribals with comparative expenditures by district and
block.
1. Training and Capacity building of CIGs and PFTs on tribal issues.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
- ~;     |   .  v. dri onrtrl- ~    .i! " -   ;r > | ;   r j 1;; a  .   ;; 9 - Local  F'voreignr  '  Total
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~'!  ,C n'6 -'  .. ....  US$miilo  U.rilo  .U'~hI6
Institutional and Human Capacity Building                22.25         0.26        22.51
Subprojects for Community and Village Investments        99.30         1.88       101.18
Total Baseline Cost                                     121.55         2.14       123.69
Physical Contingencies                                   0.06         0.01         0.07
Price Contingencies                                      5.45         0.14         5.59
Total Project Costs            127.06         2.29        129.35
Total Financing Required            127.06         2.29       129.35
,~2  - sr   .'Xr>;t. , et,  n   ' l.; -'  "'-"   ' -Lo'c-aP '   Forbigr!:,,  r  Toa
't .Prbject.Cot-ByiCategory.             :US$million -  US miion .   S $illo
Civil Works                                                1.04          0.02          1.06
Goods Equipment and Vehichles                              2.26          0.25         2.51
NGO Services and Consultancies                             2.10          0.00         2.10
Training                                                   7.97          0.00          7.97
Community Investment Grants, Panchayat Grants and         97.28          2.02        99.30
Innovations Grants
Village Fund                                                6.48         0.00          6.48
Recurrent Cost                                             9.93                       9.93
Total Project Costs    127.06          2.29       129.35
Total Financing Required    127.06          2.29       129.35
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.33 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 129 02 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is
87 24% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 51 -



Annex 4
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
Economic Assessment
The main objective of the project is to alleviate poverty by improving the capacity and opportunities of
the poor to participate in and control their own development. The community investments component is
an incentive for the organization of these groups and their active inclusion in village life. Further, the
main criteria for the subprojects is whether the projects are effectively targeting the poor and promoting
their participation. Given that the project has a hard-budget constraint both at the village and household
levels, and that the funds are untied in nature, it is expected that poor groups will choose the best projects
for themselves, which are also likely to be those with the highest economic returns.
Experience from similar projects in India (Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh), as well as in
other regions, indicates that demand-driven projects of this type, involving beneficiary contributions, are
highly cost efficient. Communities have a vested interest in achieving the best quality-price ratio and
seek to maximize cost-savings and ensure accountability. Furthermore, because communities are actively
involved in prioritization, implementation, operations and maintenance, the subprojects they select are
usually financially viable. This is even more so in projects, such as this one, where transparent
information flows are in place, enabling communities and villages to learn from each other regarding
costs and technologies.
Results from subprojects implemented in Madhya Pradesh and other DPIPs indicate that:
o CIGs implement subprojects of higher quality and less cost than government agencies;
o productive investments have high rates of return;
o   often first choices of communities are subprojects that reduce migration or improve health (e.g.
safe drinking water, an access road, sanitation);
o   CIGs have the ability to procure the least cost highest quality contractors; and
o   there is no leakage due to transparency of accounts and information.
An analysis of real case subprojects implemented in the MP DPIP indicated both positive financial and
economic net present values at a 15% real interest rate:
Type of Subproject   Financial Net Present Value  Monthly Income   Economic Net Present Value
(1US$)              per Household
Goatery
$5315                  $17.00                 $2059
Buffalo Dairy
$4426                  $14.76                 $3287
Land levelling
$603
Tailoring
$4685                  $15.60                 $4012
Brass band
$6208                  $20.70                 $4450
Fiscal Impact. Under current rules GoCG would need to repay 70% of the IDA financing in Indian
Rupees to GoI at a 12% interest rate. It is expected that this liability would be offset over the medium to
- 52 -



long term because: (i) the project would spur economic activity in rural areas and, therefore, expand the
tax base for both state and local governments; and (ii) the willingness of the population to contribute a
higher share of investmnent costs would increase, reducing the burden on government budget. On the
macro-front, the project's objective is to demonstrate to the government that there could be a more
cost-effective approach to anti-poverty programs. It is expected that, over the long-term, through a
demonstration effect, the project would bring about reforms in state and national anti-poverty programs
with substantial positive fiscal impacts. Also, an output of the project would be village funds which
would improve the fiscal situation of village governments. The project also supports local resource
mobilization activities and cost-recovery practices which would reduce future O&M liabilities on village,
district and state governments. GoCG has put special care during project preparation that the project
would not increase the fiscal liabilities of the state. Minor increases in current expenditures are expected
during the post-project period, due to one grade promotions of government officials joining the project
(about 200) as PFTs or project staff. All the recurrent expenditures of subprojects would be met by
community organizations.
- 53 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
Years Ending
I         I :.rr ? 3.
I Year 1j Year 2     l Year 3   | Year 4   | Year 5  | Year 6   | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            2.3       13.5      37.4       44.7       16.0       5.5       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2        1.6        1.9        2.0       2.0        2.1       0.0
Total Project Costs           2.5       15.1      39.3       46.7       18.0       7.6       0.0
Total Financing               2.5       15.1      39.3       46.7       18.0       7.6       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   2.2       13.2       34.2       40.6       15.7      6.6        0.0
Govemment                  0.1        0.6        1.6        1.9       0.7       0.3        0.0
Central                                                                                 0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Beneficiaries                 0.2        1.4       3.5        4.2        1.6       0.7       0.0
Total Project Financing      2.5       15.2       39.3      46.7       18.0       7.6        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 54 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
Procurement
A. Procurement Implementation Capacity
Chattisgarh is a new State carved out of the State of Madhya Pradesh. Although, as part of Madhya
Pradesh, some of the officials of Chhattisgarh gained experience in undertaking procurement under
Bank financed projects, such as Hydrology, DPEP, etc, these officials are not part of the team handling
the proposed project. Thus, the project does not have any previous experience in carrying out
procurement under Bank financed projects. Further, the nature of the project (community driven) is
such that most of the procurement would be carried out by CIGs and Panchayats. An outside
procurement agent for the project would not, therefore, be an appropriate solution, since it is necessary
to build the capacity of the CIGs, GPs, PTFs, NGOs and ZPs in addition to the SPU in implementation
of community driven procurement.
Procurement in the project would be carried out under the overall supervision and guidance of the SPU.
Its actual management would be at the distnct level (ZP). Capacity building would be a continuous
process requiring a series of workshops and training programs for the entities that would implement the
project. The project has prepared a broad timetable for capacity building for the first year of the project.
The project also has a small component for procurement of works, goods and equipment. The contracts
are very small value contracts. For these contracts, the project would identify and appoint an officer in
the SPU who has previous experience of implementation of Bank financed projects, and is trained in
procurement for Bank financed projects at the Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) in
Hyderabad.
Procurement Risk
There is a potential risk from a large volume of contracting at the community level. There is, therefore, a
need for a strong monitoring mechanism including social audits which considerably reduce the inherent
risk. The proposed project has a detailed mechanism for monitoring and evaluation to ensure efficient
completion of the project and achievement of its obj ectives. The Termns of Reference (TOR) for the
monitorng agency would specifically include physical verification of the assets created by
CIGs/Panchayats.
Disbursement Profile
The Project is designed on the concept of bottom-up planning and demand-driven activities. In terms of
priority, the first task would be to support groups of the most disadvantaged people and empower them
to participate in village development processes. Experience has shown that this takes around six months.
Therefore, the disbursement profile would be flat during the initial period and pick-up gradually.
Procurement Arrangements
All project activities to be financed under the Credit would be procured in accordance with the Bank
Procurement Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works (January 1995, Revised January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and Consultancy Guidelines (January 1997 and revised in
September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002) for hiring Consultancy Services (including NGO
Services). All civil works, goods and services would be procured using India specific Bank's model
- 55 -



documents as well as the formats of the community contracts specifically approved for the project.
Specific procurement arrangements summarized in Table A are as follows:
Community Subprojects and Gram Panchayat sub -projects (USS 93.38 million): The project would
finance matching grants for small subprojects proposed by Common Interest Groups or Gram
Panchayats such as village approach or link roads, community halls, watershed development,
strengthening of health care centers, improving animal health care and breed upgradation facilities,
drains, minor irrigation works, wells, drinking water arrangements, etc. The subprojects would also
include the hiring of services or training of community members, wherever these would be managed by
the communities themselves. The project would cover about 2000 villages spread over 16 districts. The
average value of each subproject would be about US$ 5,000 and the maximum would not exceed US$
50,000 equivalent. There would be in all about 20,000 subprojects financed. Procurement would be in
accordance with para 3.15 of the Guidelines. The agreed procedures for community procurement are as
follows:
Works: (a) direct contracting with registered NGOs or local community organizations such as
Common Interest Groups; (b) lump-sum fixed-price/unit rate contracts with qualified contractors
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least 3 qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation; or (c) community carrying out the works themselves and taking up
technical/managerial assistance from govemment agencies or NGOs or hiring services of individual
experts.
Goods: The goods estimated to cost less than US$ 500 per contract upto an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$200,000 may be procured through Direct Contracting procedures. Goods estimated
to cost less than US$ 30,000 per contract would be procured under Shopping procedures on the
basis of at least 3 quotations.
The format for contracts with community groups has been agreed with the Govemment of
Chhattisgarh. In the case of Gram Panchayats, the existing MOU formats between Zilla Panchayats
and Gram Panchayats would be used.
Civil Works (US$1.06 million): The project supports construction of about 200 Panchayat buildings
estimated to cost equivalent to approximately US$5,000 per contract. These are small civil works and
would not be suitable for competitive bidding due to the small amounts and scattered nature. Therefore,
the works would be carried out following National Shopping Procedures in accordance with Para 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US$ 2.51 million): Goods would be procured following
Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999):
NCB: Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 per contract (e.g., fumiture,
computers and peripherals, office equipment, training equipment etc.) up to an aggregate value of US$
0.51 million would be procured following NCB procedures in accordance with the provisions with para
3.3 and 3.4 of the guidelines. There would be 7 packages to be procured following NCB procedures
for computers and peripherils (bid documents ready), fumiture, office equipment, training equipment,
media equipment, audio-visuals and software. All NCB contracts to be financed from the proceeds of
the credit shall follow the following procedures:
(a)    Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the GoI Task Force (and as
amended from to time) shall be used for bidding.
- 56 -



(b)    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least thirty days prior to the deadline for the submission of the bids.
(c)    No special preference would be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign
bidders, state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state.
(d)     Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no negotiation of price with
the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(e)     Except in cases offorce majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the project,
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank (a) for the
first request of extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent requests for
extension irrespective of the period.
(f)     Re-bidding shall not be carried out without prior concurrence of the Bank. The system
of rejecting the bids outside a predetermined margin or "bracket" of prices shall not be used.
(g)     Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D would not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts would be acceptable for any procurement under the national shopping
procedures.
National Shopping: Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000 per contract (e.g.,
small items of equipment, urgent requirements of computers, audio-visual equipment, furniture, etc.)
would be procured by the various implementing agencies in small lots using National Shopping
procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of
US$ 0.9 million. Rate contracts of the DGS&D would be acceptable as a substitute for National
Shopping.
Direct Contracting: Goods and equipment of proprietary nature estimated to cost less than US$ 10,000
equivalent per contract upto an aggregate of US$0.3 million (e.g., books, periodicals, extension and
publicity materials, software, proprietary equipment and spares, etc.) would be procured using direct
contracting procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. Petty items costing US$500
equivalent or less subject to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 would be procured following
paragraph 3.7 of Guidelines.
Vehicles(US$ 0.7 million) : The requirement of vehicles is small and thus would not be amenable to
central and lumped procurement. Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of up to US$ 0.1 million per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 0.7 million would be procured using the National
Shopping procedure in accordance with Para 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines or DGS&D rate contracts.
Training and Consultancies (US$ 10.07 million): The technical assistance and consultancy services,
includes the hiring of NGO services, non government members of Project Facilitation Teams (PFT), and
quality supervisors for community works. About sixty percent of training expenditures would be for the
training and capacity building of Panchayats. About forty percent of training expenditures would be for
the training of beneficiaries. Consultancies and studies would be contracted on Terms and Conditions
which are in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the use of Consultants (January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999 and May 2002). Technical assistance and consultancy services
would be procured using QCBS procedures. For contracts with consulting firms/institutions valued
below US$100,000 equivalent per contract, procurement would follow QCBS or methods based on
consultant's qualifications or Single Source Selection depending upon the appropriateness of the
- 57 -



procedures relevant to the requirements. The method of procurement for services of NGOs and CBOs
would be either Consultants' Qualifications or Single Source Selection. These services are estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 per contract. For individual consultants, this threshold would be US$50,000
equivalent per contract. The Standard Request for Proposals and Conditions of Contract would be used
for all contracts. For consultancies estimated to cost US$200,000 or less, the shortlist can comprise
entirely national consultants. The bulk of the expenditure would be on capacity building i.e. training,
workshops and study tours, which account for US$ 7.97 million out of an amount of US$ 10.07 million.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
- '                     S            tt t t -, > s i , i.    g      ,-IProcurement Metnodu  , , .
,EipenditureXCategory           ICB             NC1          Other     .  N.2.F.   .Total Cost
I. Works                            0.00            1.06         0.00         0.00        1.06
(0.00)          (0.85)        (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.85)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.51          2.00        0.00        2.51
(0.00)          (0.41)       (1.60)        (0.00)     (2.01)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         10.07        0.00        10.07
NGO Services                       (0.00)          (0.00)       (9.89)        (0.00)     (9.89)
Other Consultancies
Training, workshops and Study
Tours
4. Grants                           0.00            0.00         99.30         0.00       99.30
(0.00)          (0.00)       (94.30)       (0.00)     (94.30)
5. Fund                             0.00            0.00          0.00         6.48       6.48
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Recurrent Costs                  0.00            0.00          9.93         0.00       9.93
(0.00)          (0.00)       (5.50)        (0.00)     (5.50)
Total                            0.00            1.57         121.30        6.48       129.35
(0.00)          (1.26)       (111.29)      (0.00)    (112.55)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 58 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with the procurement plan which shall have been
approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. Annual Procurement Plans would
be reviewed by by the Bank.
Prior Review of Contracts
Civil Works, Goods, Community contracts and Gram Panchayat Contracts: With respect to any
contract for goods and works to cost the equivalent of US$ 250,000 or more, and for the first two
contracts for works, the first two contracts for goods, estimated to cost equivalent of US$ 30,000 or
more, and the first two contracts for Common Interest Groups / Gram Panchayats, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Bank Guidelines would apply.
Consultancy Contracts. Prior review procedures would be as follows:
(a)     Firms: (i) Contracts of value of more than US$ 100,000 - Full Prior Review; and (ii)
Contracts of value between US$50,000 and US$ 100,000 - only TORs and Shortlists to be Prior
Reviewed.
(b)     Individuals: Contracts of value of more than US$ 50,000 - to be reviewed.
Post Review
Works and Goods: The contracts below the prior review threshold for Works and Goods shall be
subject to post-review as per the procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Bank
Guidelines; and
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training: Contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 shall be subject to post-review provided that the generic TORs and
shortlists for critical assignments have been cleared with the Bank.
Procurement Information: Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by the SPU.
(b) Comprehensive semi-annual reports by the SPU indicating:
(i)  revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total cost;
(ii) revised timings of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award,
and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement; and
(c) Completion report by the Borrower within three months of the Credit Closing Date.
Procurement Schedule and Proposed Procurement Arrangements: The proposed packages and
the Procurement Schedules for goods/equipment required for capacity-building and project
management have been provided by the SPU. The project elements, their estimated costs, and
proposed methods of procurement are summarized in Table A. Figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts to be financed through the IDA credit.
- 59 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviews
I, D   &.i ,,     ,    . -*Co'ntract Value             'Contracts S6bect '-.
n -.-                     i ,                -> -  X Threshold  Procurement  Prior Review
Expenditure Category  i eUS$ thousands),              Methoid.              .(U$ milfions),,
1. Works                                       National Shopping (at least First two and all contracts
three quotations)      above US$ 250,000)
2. Goods                     >30 to <200                NCB             First two contracts above
<30                   Shopping            US $ 30,000 and all
>10 to <30           Direct contracting     contracts above US$
250,000
3. Services
4. Vehicles                   < 100,000          Shopping/DGS&D Rate
contract
5. Community Sub                 <50                Quotation/Direct           First two
Projects                                        Contracting/Comnmunity
Participation
<0.5              Direct Contracting
6. Consulting services          >100                    QCBS                  Prior review
by NGO services,
Training by firms            >50 and >100        CQ, sole source or any  TOR and the short - list
other method as per        Prior Review
7. Consulting Services                              guidelines QCRS
by Individuals.gudlnsQB
Prior award review
>50
CQ, sole source        Post award review
<50
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: Less than 5% of contracts. The contract
values are very small and there will be only
one contract for goods above US$100,000.
Therefore almost all contracts will be
subject to post award review
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 60 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
The following country issues will apply:
(a)    Availability of funds on a timely basis to the SPU and ZPs applies to the project to the extent that
this is a state sector project and that state sector projects are generally more vulnerable to this
problem. The State of Chhattisgarh, being a new state, has not reported any fund flow problems
to date and GoCG has demonstrated a high level of commitment to the project and has assured
the Bank that counterpart funding for the project will be accorded the highest priority.
(b)    GoCG's existing accounting system concentrates mainly on bookkeeping and transactional
control over expenditures. There is no concept of financial management information being used
for decision-making. However, SPU and ZPs will follow the commercial double bookkeeping
system and a separate financial reporting system has been designed to address this issue.
(c)    Quality and timeliness of audit reports and response/follow-up of audit findings has been noted
in many states/administrations. However, the State AG has been very responsive and the TORs
for the audit and the formats of the annual financial statements would be agreed with the CAG.
The following country issues do not apply:
(s)    Though at the country level delays in submitting withdrawal applications has been an area of
concern, GoCG proposes to set up a system that would ensure timely submissions of withdrawal
claims. However, it is recognized that community driven projects have a longer start up period
required for mobilization and formation of groups.
Strengths and Weaknesses
Strengths
The project has the following strengths in the area of financial management:
(i) The Zilla Panchayats will have well established accounting systems and follow double entry
bookkeeping.
(ii) GoCG has demonstrated a high level of commitment to the project and during discussions on the
fund flow processes assured the Bank that the releases of funds during the life of the project
would be accorded the highest priority.
- 61 -



Significant weaknesses
Significant weaknesses                         Resolution
An existing accounting system which primarily  An operations manual with focus on
focuses on bookkeeping and not on financial    financial reporting and monitoring has
management                                     been developed.
Accounting for subproject payments (on receipt of  The Financial Management Manual (FMM)
certification of physical achievements), may not be  has clear guidelines on the accounting
clearly understood and uniformly implemented.  processes to be followed for subproject
payments and accounting for beneficiary
contributions in cash.
The capacity of CIGs for bookkeeping and      One of the critical functions of the project is
accounting and financial management is very   to enhance the capacity of the CIG office
limited. They will need support in maintaining the  bearers in bookkeeping and accounting.
books of account.                             Training on the project's expectations of the
accounting arrangements at the CIG level
would be provided to the PFT/ZP staff by
the SPU or SPU appointed consultants.
Staffing & Training:
Staffing: A detailed staffing plan has been drawn up which is a part of the Operations Manual (OM).
The finance wing at the SPU is headed by a Finance Manager (FM), who is of the rank of Deputy
Director Treasury & Accounts. He would be assisted by an Accounts Officer (AO). Both the FM and the
AO would be supported by adequate staff. The FM would be responsible for establishment of the agreed
financial management arrangements, providing timely.financial reports to the stakeholders including the
Bank, facilitating smooth and timely flow of the funds and providing overall guidance in respect of
financial management issues including monitoring of expenditures, audit and internal control to the ZPs.
At the ZP level the finance function would be headed by an Accounts Officer who would be assisted with
adequate accounts staff. (S)he will be responsible for providing timely consolidated financial reports to
the state authorities and the SPU, monitoring of expenditures, providing overall guidance to the CIGs,
ensuring smooth flow of funds to all CIGs as per the MoUs and conducting of timely audits.
The CIGs would have a trained accounts bookkeeper. This would be a condition for the signing of the
subproject agreement.
Training: Since the project financial staff, many of whom would be newly recruited, have not been
involved in the design of the project and the design of the financial management system, they would be
trained in the requirements of accounting and reporting under the project. This is an important priority in
the early stages of the project and would be the main responsibility of the Finance Manager at the SPU.
All the project managers and staff would be sensitized on the importance of financial management
aspects for effective project management and success. The accounting staff would be trained to operate
the computerized financial management system, once it is ready.
The management of ZP funds would need additional capacities to be built at community organization
levels. The SPU would pay special attention to the capacity building interventions and prepare a
- 62 -



comprehensive training strategy and plan to provide training and build well trained community level
cadre of book-keepers and accountants.
Model books of accounts and reports prepared need to be widely circulated and used during the training
programs as resource material.
Some of the important lessons learnt from the other DPIPs/Rural Poverty projects are:
*   The members of the PFTs need to be trained in bookkeeping and accounting requirements for the
CIGs. They work in close touch with the CIGs and can be an important resource to train and
build capacity at the community level.
*   Special initiatives taken to provide training in bookkeeping to identified semi-literate persons
from the communities can build a cadre of bare-foot bookkeepers. These trained resource persons
can be promoted to provide services to multiple CIGs on payment of fees; and
*   At the Block level, accounting hubs would be set up if necessary by hiring the services of an
accountant/bookkeeper and all the CIGs could be encouraged to bring their vouchers and bank
books on a regular basis to the hubs for the accounting books to be updated and reports prepared.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The Financial Management Manual prepared covers the accounting and reporting arrangements for the
project. The Manual lays down in detail the applicable accounting policies and procedures. The Manual
has separate sections for the bookkeeping and accounting arrangements for SPU, ZPs and the CIGs / GPs.
Books of accounts for the project would be maintained using double-entry bookkeeping principles.
Standard books of accounts (cash and bank books, journals, ledgers, etc.) would be maintained by the
SPU and ZPs. The books of accounts would be maintained on a manual basis until the integrated
computerized accounting system being developed and tested is operational.
A Chart of Accounts has been developed to enable data to be captured and classified by expenditure
center, budget heads, procurement methods, project components/activities, and disbursement categories.
This would match closely with the classification of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the
project documents (Project Implementation Plan and Project Cost Tables).
The key issues to be addressed in the design of the accounting policies and procedures are:
*   releases of installments against the subproject agreements would be recorded as expenditures in
the books of accounts of ZPs;
*   all other releases of funds to ZPs would be accounted for as advances in the books of accounts of
and adjusted to expenditures only on submission of expenditures;
*   at all accounting centers, separate books of accounts would be maintained for the project funds
as per the requirements specified in the Financial Management Manual; and
*   registers of assets acquired and created (including CIG assets) would be maintained at each
accounting center.
The Operations Manual for the Project documents in detail the financial management arrangements being
put in place at different stages of the subproject cycle. The selection and appraisal criteria of the
subprojects require that detailed assessment of the group's track record of managing their savings
schemes are camed out and documented. At each of the subsequent stages of the subproject preparation,
- 63 -



supporting documentation provides details of the accounting and fund management arrangements agreed
for the implementation of the subproject. Release of flmds on the approval of the sub project are based on
the subproject meeting the conditions required for ensuring that satisfactory financial management
arrangements (as documented in Addendum 2 of the model Agreement) are in place. These conditions
include (a) the CIG has a trained bookkeeper; (b) the CIG has demonstrated financial management
capacity on its initial savings activities; and (c) up to date submission of monthly financial statements.
The monitoring responsibilities rest largely with the Project Facilitation Teams, whose specific tasks in
the areas of accounting and financial management include: (a) working out fund management
arrangements; (b) opening of separate bank accounts and collection of upfront contributions; (c)
facilitating signing of MoU and release of funds; and (d) following-up on monthly financial reports.
CIGs/GPs would maintain accounts records/registers as follows: (a) cash/bank book; (b) contributions
received in cash/labor/materials; (c) materials purchased and utilized. In addition, the CIGs would retain
all vouchers, bills, supporting documents and ensure that the Bank pass books are regularly updated.
Similar accounts would be maintained for the Operation & Maintenance Bank account and reports
submitted to its members and Gram Sabha.
Peoples contributions which do not form part of the project costs and are earmarked for operation and
maintenance of the assets created under the subproject would be deposited in a separate bank account.
2. Audit Arrangements
The statutory audit for the project would be carried out by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
The Terms of Reference of the auditors as well as the formats of annual financial statements would be
agreed with the Association and would form part of the Financial Management Manual. The audit would
be carried out in accordance with the International Standards of Auditing. The audit would cover all the
accounting centers and include an audit of financial transactions and an assessment of the operation of
the financial management system (including internal control mechanisms). The Bank would receive a
consolidated project audit report along with the financial statements, duly certified, submitted within 6
months of the close of GoCG's fiscal year.
On completion of the subproject the CIG, project accounts would be audited by a firm of chartered
accountants.
As part of the management control functions, the CIGs would be required to get the final statements of
expenditures, on completion of the subproject, certified by a firm of chartered accountants. The ZPs
would maintain a panel of approved chartered accountants with pre-determined fee rates, available to the
CIGs for conduct of the audit. The TORs for the audit would be agreed and included in the Financial
Management Manual. In addition, the books of accounts of the Gram Panchayats would be audited by the
Local Fund Auditors of the State. These audit reports would be used by the project for monitoring and
management purposes, but would not be required to be submitted to the Bank.
The following audit reports would be monitored in the Audit Reports Compliance System (ARCS):
Implementing Agency                        Audit             Auditors
Department of Panchayats & Rural Development,  SOE/Project Audit  Comptroller and Auditor
GoCG (including 16 District level Zilla Parishads)            General
Department of Economic                      Special Account   Comptroller and Auditor
IAffairs/GOI                                                  General
- 64 -



The nature of the project is such that project funds would be made available to a large number of
community groups who are not registered legal entities. These groups would be new and established for
the project. The financial management arrangements set up would emphasize providing local level
transparency, social audit and self-accountability. These measures would include a simple summary of
the accounts (amounts received from the members and the project, amount spent and balances in hand)
and would be publicly posted in the notice board of the Gram Sabha. In addition, the books/registers,
vouchers and bank pass books would be open for perusal by members. This would be in addition to
sample audit by the project auditors.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Reporting and Monitoring
The monthly reporting formats from each of the accounting centers, SPU and the ZPs would be designed
to provide summarized monthly financial information on the fund flows, balances in cashibank, status of
advances and expenditures classified by project components/activities, disbursement categories,
procurement methods, etc. These reports would be compiled by the SPU on a monthly and quarterly basis
to provide meaningful Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). These reports would be prepared from the
start of the project, submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the close of the quarter, and used by SPU and
the Bank for monitoring and management decision making.
The annual audited project financial statements, to be provided by GoCG to IDA would comprise: (a) a
consolidated Project Sources and Application of Funds for the whole project; (b) classification of
expenditures by project activities/components and disbursement categories; (c) consolidated statement of
withdrawals (for the whole project) from the IDA Credit made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and documented claims; and (d) reconciliation of reported expenditures with the
total withdrawal claims submitted during the year.
The financial arrangements between the CIGs and ZPs (as are envisaged) would not require financial
accounting for the CIG funds in the ZPs books to be based on actual statements of expenditures. All
payments against the contracts would be recorded as expenditures in ZP books. However, the CIGs
would be required to submit quarterly statement of expenditures summarizing sources and uses of funds
against the plans in order to build accountability and demonstrate the presence of adequate accounting
and bookkeeping arrangements.
CIGs would prepare a simple report each month summarizing: (a) the sources and uses of funds,
indicating the balances in cash/bank; (b) activities completed, cost and activities to be completed in the
next month); and (c) contributions in labor and materials. The report would be presented to its members
and in the Gram Sabha and provide all records for scrutiny by members. The financial report would also
be submitted to the ZP by the 7th day of the next month.
Computerized Financial Management System
An integrated financial management software shall be developed to allow multi project accounting and
multi bank operations. The software once implemented would not only be used for project accounting but
would also result in complete computerization of the SPU and the Zilla Panchayats. It would also cater
to the requirements of accounting and reporting under various Central and State Government Schemes.
The key issues that would be considered while developing the design of the software are:
- 65 -



o   integration with the MIS system - qualitative information on the sub project proposals/contracts
tracked in the MIS are linked by common code numbers in the FMS. Financial information
relating to the subproject contracts is tracked by the same code numbers;
o   the system would allow accounting of multiple projects and overall consolidation at the entity
level; and
o   the system would be used by SPU and ZP for project accounting for CG DRPP as well as from
other activities.
Since the design and development of the computerized software would take some time, the design of the
financial management system for the proposed project is based currently on manual books of accounts.
After successful testing and parallel runs of the proposed computerized financial management system for
at least one year, the manual systems may be discontinued.
l[mpact of Procurement Arrangements
The nature and type of the contractual arrangements with the CIGs lay the basis of accounting at the ZPs.
The ZPs would enter into contractual arrangements with CIGs/GPs. These agreements would be based on
lump sum contracts with payments based on performance milestones agreed and documented in the
contracts. The achievement of the performance milestones would be certified. Thus, ZPs would only
need to account for the release of performance-based installments.
Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursements from the IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system (replenishment and
reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and could be converted to
the Report based disbursements at the option of the GoCG and Gol after the successful demonstration of
regular, timely and adequate Financial Monitoring Reports.
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India (Gol). When the withdrawals are not
based on report-based disbursements, the authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$ 10
million that represents about 4 months of initial estimated disbursements from the IDA Credit. The initial
deposit into the Special Account would be US$ 5 million until the aggregate disbursements from the IDA
Credit equal or exceed SDR 25 million. The Special Account would be operated in accordance with the
Bank's operational policies.
When disbursements are based on FMRs, the authorized allocation of the Special Account would be
determined on the basis of project's requirement of funds for 6 months of expenditure. The Special
Account would be replenished quarterly and be based on the next 6 months funds forecast.
The SPU would compile the financial information from all its management constituent agencies and
prepare reimbursement claims on a monthly basis. ZPs would forward the monthly expenditure claims to
SPUs, who would be responsible for submission of the withdrawal applications to CAA&A in DEA for
onward submission to the Bank for replenishment of the special account or reimbursement.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of statement of expenditure for (a) subprojects under Part B
of the Project; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and works under contracts
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (c) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for
employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants,
respectively; (d) training and workshops and study tours; and (e) incremental operating costs.
- 66 -



Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$ 1.0 million would cover eligible
expenditures for implementing activities after July 1, 2002. Retroactive financing would support project
expenditures on civil works, purchase of goods, equipment & vehicles, consultancies, training,
incremental operating costs and sub projects.
Action Plan
Action                                        Responsible  Completion Date
Person
Actions Required for Strengthening Financial
Management (i.e. to be taken up after Project
implementation commences)
(i) Development of computerized financial    SPU           By December 31, 2004
management system
Supervision Plan
From a financial management perspective, the project would need intensive supervision. The focus
during supervision would be on building capacity of CIGs, PRIs and functioning of accounting and
financial reporting at these levels.
- 67 -



Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Categgry - -      mount Iru ULjml-         . Eiriancino Parcen~age
1.Goods, including equipment,              1.98          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
materials and vehicles (excluding Part                  local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
B of the Project)                                          80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
2. NGOs' services and CBO                  1.04                        100%
education/research institutions
consultancies
3. Training, workshops and study tours     7.97                        100%
4. Other consultancies                     0.85                        80%
5. Civil Works (excluding Part B of the    0.83                        80%
Project)
6. Incremental Operating Costs             5.50           80% until September 30, 2004; 60%
from October 1, 2004 until September
30, 2006; and 40% thereafter
7. Community Investments                  93.38                        95%
(a) Subprojects under Part B. 1 of the
Project
(b) Innovation Funds under Part B.2 of     0.95                        95%
the Project
Unallocated                                0.06
Total Project Costs                       112.56
Total                                     112.56
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Special account:
- 68 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
PvotS,ch edule ,, ;),n>,h'Y<      "    ;    -7*1n', *j             , .         a;,
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                           7
First Bank mission (identification)             03/02/2002                   03/02/2002
Appraisal mission departure                     12/12/2002                   12/12/2002
Negotiations                                    01/30/2003                   03/13/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/31/2003
Prepared by:
Govermnent of Chhattisgarh
Preparation assistance:
India Country Department
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Luis Constantino                  Task Team Leader
Madhavi Pillai                     Co-Task Team Leader and Natural Resources Management
Syed 1. Ahmed                      Senior Counsel
Ali Awais                          Counsel
D.J. Baxi                         Procurement
Grace Domingo                     Program Assistant
Sara Gonzalez-Flavell              Senior Counsel
Paul Martin                        Environmental Economics
Manvinder Mamak                    Financial Management
Yoshiko Masuyama                   Program Assistant
Ranjit Nayak                       Tribal Issues
Sarita Rana                       Program Assistant
Geeta Sethi                       Economics
Warren Waters                      Social Development
Luis Coirolo                       Commnunity Development (peer reviewer)
Hans Binswanger                   Economics (peer reviewer)
Parmesh Shah                      Community Development (peer reviewer)
- 69 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Operational Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
List of Participants of Consultation Workshop on March 19-20, 2002, in Raipur
Communications Strategy for Chhattisgarh DRPP
Training and Capacity Building Strategy
Tribal Development Strategy for Chhattisgarh DRPP
Criteria for Selection of Blocks for Chhattisgarh DRPP
Financial Management Manual for Chhattisgarh DRPP
Environment Management Framework for Chhattisgarh DRPP
Working of Panchayats in Chhattisgarh in the light of the 73rd Constitutional Amendment Act, 1992
Project Concept Paper for Chhattisgarh Poverty Reduction Project
*Including electronic files
- 70 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
01-Mar-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in us$ mililions                            disbursements;
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel    Undisb       Orig   Frmn Rev'd
P040610        2002 RAJ WSRP                                          0 00     140 00                 0 00      0.00     137.15      0 00       0 00
P050647        2002 UTrAR PRADESH WATER SECTOR                        000      149 20                 0 00       0 00    145 88      0 00       0 00
P050653        2002 RESTRUCTURING                                     0 00     151 60                 0 00       0 06    151 22      0 00       0 00
PO050658       2001 KARNATAKA RWSS It                                 0 00      64 90                 000o      0 00      57 44      5 62       0 00
P055454        2001 TECHN EDUC III                                    0 00      65 50                 0 00      0.00      59 00      4 35       0 00
P059242        2001 KERALA RWSS                                       0 00     110 10                 0 00      0 00     102 79     -3 79       0 00
P010566        2001 MPODPIP                                         381 00       0 00                 0 00       0 00    329 52     50 52       0 00
P055455        2001 GUJARAT HWYS                                      0 00      74 40                 0 00      0 00      70 72     *0 16       0 00
P038334        2001 RAJ OPEP 11                                     180 00       0 00                 0 00       0 00    160 85      14 35      0 00
P067543        2001 RAJ POWER I                                       000       30 00                 0 00       0 00     25 57      -0 31      0 00
P070421        2001 LEPROSY 11                                      360 00       0 00                 0 00       0 00    343 ia       8 18      0 00
P067216        2001 KARN HWYS                                         0 00     100.40                 0 00       0 00     97 20       1 41      0 00
P071244        2001 KAR WSHO DEVELOPMENT                            589 00       0 00                 0 00       000     563 11      2211I      0 00
P035173        2001 Grand Trunk Road Inrrovement Project            450 00       0 00                 0 00       0 00    395 07      50 73      0 00
P050657        2000 POWERGRID It                                      0 00     I110.00                0 00       0 00    100 ao      13658      0 00
P045049        2000 UP Health Systemrs Development Project            0 00     111 00                 0 00       0 00     99 77       910       0 00
P049770        2000 AP OPIP                                          80 00      50 00                 0 00       0 00    122 24      13 80      0 00
P035172        2000 REN EGY II                                      150.00       0 00                 0 00       0 00   `103 69      24 81      0 00
P010505        2000 UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT             0 00     100 48                 0 00       0 00     69 30      14 39      a000
P009972        2000 RAJASTHAN DPIP                                   516 00      0 00                 0 00       0 00    458 97      65 31      0 00
P059501        2000 NATIONAL. HIGHWAYS Illt PROJECT                   0 00      45 00                 0 00       0 00     40 93       7 40      000O
P067330        2000 TA for EconReform Project                         0 00     142 60                 0 00       0 00     80 42       1 08      0 00
P050667        2000 IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT                0 00     182 40                 0 00       0 00    109 73      33 77      0 00
P055456        2000 UP DPEPtItl                                      62 00       0 06                 0 00       000      58 16      26 16      0 00
P045050        1999 Telecomm,unlcabjons Sector Reform TA              0 00      85.70                 0 00       0 00     66 65      56 71      a000
P049537        1999 RAJASTHiAN DPEP                                 210 00       000                  0 00       000O     84 68      84 68      0 00
P045051        1999 AP POWER APL I                                    0.00     191 00                 0 00       0.00    117.66      26 11      0 00
P050637        1999 2ND NATL HIVIAIDS CO                             105 00      0 00                 0 00       0 00     31 72      -5 40      0 00
PD41264        1999 TN URBAN DEVII1                                  85 00      50 00                 000O       0 00     94 28      29 35      0 00
P050646        1999 WTRSHD MGMT HILLS It                              0 00     194 10                 0 00       0 00    138693      64 13      0 00
P050651        1999 UP SODIC LANDSII1                                 0.00     134 00                 0 00       0 00    113 26      53 82      0 00
P010496        1998 MAH-ARASH HEALTH SYS                              0.00      76 40                 0 00       0 00     59 86      32 10      0 00
P010561        1998 ORISSA HEALTH SYS                                96 80     100 00                 0 00       0 00    120 76      72 27      0 00
P049385        1998 NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY                              301 30    241 90                 0 00       0 00    284 05     156 56      0 00
P049477        1998 AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                               0 00     3900                  0 00       0.00     19 36       605       0 00
P038021        1998 KERAL.A FORESTRY                                   0 00    152 00                 0 00       0 00    109 54      93 07      0 00
P035824        1998 DPEP Ill (13IHAR)                                 79 90     50 00                 0 00       0 00     95 39      69 42      0 00
P036827        1998 UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT                                000     3800 0                 0 00       0 00    219 41      70 45      0 00
P0351 69       1998 WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                              0 00      52 94                 0 00       000      24 51      21 87      0 00
P049301        1997 UP FORESTRY                                      50 00     100 00                 0 00      19 00     32 12      5578       3 47
P010511        1997 A P EMERG CYCLONE                                 0 00     164 80                 0 00       0.00    103 11      97 32      0 00
P010531        1997 MALARIA CONTROL                                   0 00     246.30                 0 00       0 00     80 84      76 05     49 54
P035158        1997 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                             175,00    150 00                 0 00       000     186804     145 90      000O
P010473        1997 AP IRRIGATION Ill                                 0 00     142 40                 0 00       0 00     91 03     100 56      0 00
P009995        1997 TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                            35000        0 00                 0 00       0 00    174 39     107 73      0 00
P044449        1997 STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)                              0 00      1950o                 0 00       000O     13 94      15 86     -1 71
P043728        1997 RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                         0 00      50 00                 0 00       0 94     22 46      24 63      0 00
P009584        1997 ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                              0 00       0 00                 0 00       0 00      7 56       9 47      0 00
P036062        1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                    0 00      28 00                20 00       0 00     13 89      15 75      0 00
P010480        1996 ECODEVELOPMENT                                  167 00      25 00                 0 00      10 00     65.86      75 68     35 82
P010484        1996 BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                              59 60       0.00                 0 00       720      22 62      27 02      17 62
P010485        1996 UP RURAL WATER                                    0 00     142 00                 0.00      19 64     30 47      74 33     29 25
P035821        1996 HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                  000     425 20                 0 00       0 00     7949       30 73      0 00
- 71-



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                  IBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P035170       1996 ORISSAPOWERSECTOR                             35000      000                 000      6000     14012     18678       000
P010529       1996 ORISSAWRCP                                     000     29090                 000       000      7713      7637       000
P035825       1996 STATE HEALTH SYS II                            0.00    350 00                0.00      0.00    107 06    152.90      0 00
P043310       1996 COAL ENV & SOCIAL MITIGATION                   0 00     63.00                0 00      6.09     15 70     28 89       0 00
P010461       1995 MADRAS WATSUPII                               27580      000                 000      18930     1610     204.55      1150
P010463       1995 INDUSPOLLUTIONPREV                            143.00    2500                 000      68.31     52.36    12311       2503
P010464       1995 DISTRiCT PRIMARY ED                            0 00    260 30                0.00      0.00     62.76     78 72       0 00
P010476       1995 TAMIL NADU WRCP                                0 00     282.90               0 00      0 00     100 03   13819      109.04
P010489       1995 AP 1ST REF HEALTH S                            0.00     133.00               0 00      0 00     17 52     30 30       0 00
P010522       1995 ASSAM RURAL INFRA                              0.00     126.00               000       0.00     4446      43.23      49.51
P010455       1994 BLINDNESSCONTROL                               000      11780                000      1000      26.39     4125        000
P009977       1993 ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                           0 00     194.00               0 00      0.00     18.95     23 81      23 82
P009963       1992 POPULATION ViII                                 000     7900                 0.00      0.00     1638      1978        000
P009946       1992 NAT HIGHWAYS II                               153.00    15300                0.00      273       19.25     11.27     1127
P009869       1989 NATHPAJHAKRIHYDRO                             48500      000                 0.00      0.00      53.10     53.10     4256
Total.    5854 40    6864.72             20.00     393.21    7147 94   3264 64    406 70
- 72 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF EFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
2001               Mahlnfra                     0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99/00         Moser Baer                  22.02   14.80    0.00    0.00    8.15   14 80    0.00   0.00
NICCO-UCO                    2.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97         NIIT                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
Orchid                       0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0 00   20.00    0.00
2001               Owens Coming                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Pennar Steel                 0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
1997               Prism Cement                13.13    5.02    0.00    9.00   13.13   5.02     0.00   9 00
1981               RCIHL                        0 00    1.97    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.97    0 00   0.00
1995               RTL                          0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00   0.00
2001               Rain Calcining               14.82   5.46    0.00    0.00   14.82    5.46    0.00    0.00
2001               SAPL                         0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 07    0.00    0.00
1995               SREI                        10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997               Sara Fund                    0.00    5.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.94    0 00    0.00
1997/00            Spryance                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0 00    0 00
1995               Sundaram Finance             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 00    0 00
2001               SundaramnHome                0.00    2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.67    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95      TCW/ICICI                    0.00    7.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.15    0.00    0 00
2000               TDICI-VECAUS II              0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 54    0 00    0.00
1998               TISCO                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990               Tanflora Park                0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/92/94   Tata Electric                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    000     0.00    000
2000               Titan Industries             0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 52    0.00    0.00
1989/90/94         UCAL                         0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00    0 00
1987/88/90/93      United Riceland             10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989               VARUN                        0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00
1996               Vysya Bank                   0.00    7.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.30    0.00    0.00
1991/96/01         WIV                          0 00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2 39    0.00    0.00
2001               Walden-Mgt India             0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0 00    0 00
1997               AEC                          3.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Ambuja Cement                0.47    4.94    0.00    0.00    0.47    4.94    0.00    0.00
1989               Arvind Mills                 0.00    5.02    0.00    0.00    0 00    5.02    0.00    0.00
1994               Asian Electronic             0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0 00
1992/93            BTVL                         0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Basix Ltd.                   0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00    0 00
2001               Bihar Sponge                 0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 05    0.00    0 00
2001               CCIL                         9:00    0.00    0.00    11.50   5.50    0.00    0.00    7 00
1984/91            CEAT                        19.60    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               CESC                         18.00   0.00    0.00   40.20   18.00    0.00    0.00   40.20
1997               Centurion Bank               4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92            Chinai                       1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97            Chowgule                    10.27    4.58    0.00   15.75   10.27    4.58    0.00   15.75
2000               Duncan Hospital              7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0 00
1994               EEPL                         0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997
1997
Total Portfolio:      197 74  185.55    50.36   76.45  154.07  152.14   40 36   71 95
- 73 -



Approvals Pending Comnutment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2000               APCL                              7.10     0.00      1.90      0.00
2001               GI Wind Farms                     9.79     0.98      0.00      0.00
2001               GTF Fact                         10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               IL&FS-GF                         40.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Orissa NESCO                     28.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Orissa WESCO                     11.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Samtel                           21.30     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               Sarshatali Coal                  4.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Sundaram Home II                 10.42     0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Webdunia                          0.00     0.00      2.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       141.61     0.98      3.90      0.00
- 74 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             South      Low-
India      Asia   income      Development dlamond-
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                     1,015.9     1,380    2.511                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     450       450       430
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     453.4       616     1,069
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         1.8        19        1.9
Labor force (9%)                                       2.2        2 4      2.3      GNI                             Gross
per    I-pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199400)                                capita             .        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   29
Urban population (% of total populatlon)                28        28        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        63        62        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                68        73        76
Child malnutntion (% of children under 5)               47        49                     Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    88        87        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    43        44        37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populatlon)  101       101        96            India       Low-ncome group
Male                                                 109       109       103
Female                                                92        93        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                          182.1    316.8      445.2    457.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                18.7     24 1       23.6      22 9
Exports of goods and services/GDP             6.2      7.3       12 0      140                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   15.1     21.4       20 5      20 3
Gross national savlngslGDP                   16.7     20 9       22 5      22.3
Current account balance/GDP                   -2 0     -3.2      -1.1      -0 6     Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                         0 3      1.2        0.8       0 9     siInvestment
Total debtVGDP                               11.4     26.4       22 1      227      sav7gs
Total debt service/exports                    4.4     19 1       15 3      13.8
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..               15 9
Present value of debt/exports                   .               107 0
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  57       5.9      6.1        40        54
GDP per capita                       3.5      4.1      4 2        2 1       3.9             ndia       Low-icome group
Exports of goods and services        5 9     13 3     16.7       20 9       6.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP l#)
(% of GDP)                                                                          30
Agflculture                                  389      31.3       26.2      24 9
Industry                                     24 5     27 6       26.0      26 9     1s
Manufacturing                               16 3     171       15 2      15 8
Services                                     36.6     41.1       478       482       o     Be  \;/ 98       99   00    01
Private consumption                          74 8     67 0       66 6      66 5    -15
General government consumpion                10 1     11.6       129       13.2                     GDI       OGDP
Imports of goods and services                 9 8      9 9       15.1      16 6
1981-91  199141       2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   31       31         1 3      -02     45
Industry                                      6 9      6 3        4 9       6 3    30
Manufactunng                                 74       7 0       4 2       6 7
Services                                      6 9      7 9        9 5       4 8     15
Private consumptin                            5 8      4.6        0 4       1 7            a -,
General government consumpUon                 4.2      6 9       12 0       6.5    -15
Gross domestic investment                     6.2      7.8       15 7       2.0             -    Expons    -     imports
Imports of goods and services                 5 9     10.3       12.7      10 6
Note Data are for fiscal year ending March 31 of the year shown, excopt for populabon (mid-year 2000), 2001 data are prelimmnary eshniates,
The diamonds show four key indicators In the couniry (in bold) compared vwith its lnoomergroup average If data are rdssing, the diamond will be Incomplete
- 75 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FIWANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inlatton (%)
Domestkc prkes
(X change)
Consumer pries                                      12.8       3.4      3.8
ImplidtGDPdeflator                         11.5     10.5       4.5      4.1
Govemment flnance
(% of GOP, Includes cunant grants)                                              o,,
Current revenue                              ..       ..      18.9     19.9            98    97    99    99   00    e1
Current budget balance                         .       ..     -8.3     -8.6                  GDP delator  C
Overall surptusldeficit                      ..       ..     -11.2    -11.3
TRADE
(US$ mfilions)                             1981     1991     2000      2001      Export and import lovuls (USS mili.)
Total exports (fob)                        8,501  18,477    37,542   44,894     aoooo
Tea                                          ..    535      1,183    1,394
Iron                                         .     970       916     1,158    |o,o0-
Manufactures                             5,105   12,996    29,714   34,511
Total Imports (cif)                       15,862  27.914    55,383   59,264     MO.00
Food                                     1,348     557      2,417    1,432    201
Fuel and energy                          6,869    6.028    12,611   15,650
Capital goods                            2,416    5,836    8.965     8.785 o
95  9e   97   D 99     00    9l
Exportprice index (1995=100)                 25      51        116      122
importpnceIndex(1995=100)                    27      46        150      162                  lEVxotas     DiMpots
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   105      109        77       75
BALANCE d PAYMENTS
1991     1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP %)
(US$ miHMons) 
Exports of goods and servrces             11,249  23,028    53,251   83,784 
Importsofgoodsandservices                17,821   31,485    67,028   75,856        (-
Resouroe balanoce                         4,572   4,457    -13,777   -11 .892     If                         '
Net inoome                                  325   -3,153    -3,559    -3,821  -    LI
Net current transfers                     2,693    2,068    12,256   12,798
Current acoount baiance                  -34554  -10,142    -5,080   -2,915                  I
Financing ltems (not)                     2,564    7,650    11,482    8,771
Changes In net reserves                     990    2,492    4,402     -5, 856   2
Mlemo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)    6,823    5.834    38,036   42,281
Conversion rate (DEC, localJUS$)            7.9     17.9      43.3     45.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2005t    2001
(USS mimlions)                                                                  Conornposton of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     20.695   83,717    98312   103,677
IBRD                                      827    7,685     7816     7080                 0 3,482 A- 7,080
IDA                                     5,142   13,312    18.930   18,888
Totaldebtservice                            645    4,815    10.110   10727
IBRD                                      137    1,087     1390     1423                22
IDA                                        50     211       469       506      F 39,539/ t
Composition of net resource flows
Offcdal grants                            750     461       382       336              -,
Official creditors                        908    2,334     1,088      589            1/4.64
Pnvate creditors                          789    1,606    -1,658    4,340                                 0 164
Foreign direct Investment                  ..      97      2.155    2,346
Portfolio equity                           ..       6      3,036    2,756    |E 20c060
Wortd Bank program
Commitments                             2,503    2,186      817     2,064     A- IBRD                   E - Blateral
Disbursenents                             826    1,981     1.460    1.760     8 - IDA  D-Other niultlabtral  F-F Pnvate
Principal repayments                       86     586      1.229    1,361     C IMF                     G- Short-tefif
Net flows                                 739    1,395      231      399
Interest payments                         101     712       630      568
Net transfers                             639     683       -399    -169
uevewopment toonomics                                                                                          1 1ulvjuz
Note Data are for fiscal year ending March 31 of the year shown, except for population (mid-year 2000), 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
- 76-



IBRD 32254
600                                      62-
INDIA
STATE OF CHHATTISGARH                               --,
DISTRICT RURAL
40     POVERTY PROJECT                                                                                               240
HIGHWAYS
___                                                               ~~~~~~~~~JHARKHAND
MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS                          )u
O   SELECTED CITIES
o    DISTRICT CAPITALS
()STATE CAPITAL                                                           6
- - - - - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-    - | ~ STATE BOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS IN METERS
X  _  500  >                                    i                                                      222
20                             CKa*a dh00                                r
MADHYA PRADESH                        RD
10,
NANDGANj                             C JgE hu,a  )k 
floe) |o DeosunLos Uorram            r o\ Th *oo Bool      u                              Bega
MAHARASHTRA                  ,gJ,C@AlS 
Thesma wooodnso ooc pndueooo hamoo,Jeioo ond ofy fheo Wofoooho 00k >   c  25  50  75  100 K/omerers  Ba  of  ena
,hcu  on thho mcp do oot oop1y, cnt the port of The World Book!  .I     I    I    I    I
- ~Groop. ony oudgoreot on the 1ego1 shchus of =nty rerootory, or ocny .    I|               I
endoronront or occoptooce o  oc5h Iountoor,eo  2 5<_  AC20
;



