Report No. PID11499
Project Name                     INDIA-Chhattisgarh District Rural (@)
Poverty Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           General agriculture; fishing and forestry
sector (50%); Sub-national
government administration (30%); Other
social services (20%)
Project ID                       P076467
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
Address GOVERNMENT OF CHHATTISGARH
Address: Panchayats and Rural Development
Department, Government of
Chhattisgarh, Dau Kalyan Singh Bhawan,
Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India
Contact Person: Mr. M.K. Raut
Tel: +91-771-2221358
Fax: +91-771-2234110
Email: dpip_cg@rediffmail.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 24, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              December 9, 2002
Bank Approval Date               April 24, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Among the main rural sector issues throughout India, including
Chhattisgarh, are (1) the high rural poverty and lagging human development
indicators in rural areas; (2) the need to improve the effectiveness of
public expenditures; and (3) the lack of success in fostering more
responsive, accountable and inclusive rural institutions through rural
decentralization. Despite the considerable success in establishing elected
local governments in rural areas, India's rural institutions are still
plagued by poor governance and the country continues to have some of the
poorest social indicators in the world despite the large share of public
spending targeted for rural development.
Rural Poverty: Poverty in Chhattisgarh remains pervasive, and is not much
different from the parent State of Madhya Pradesh. About 43% of the
population lives below the poverty line (BPL), and among these, the
conditions of the tribal and scheduled caste populations, which together
amount to 57% of the BPL population, are particularly bad. About 42% of
the rural population does not have access to either electricity, safe
drinking water or sanitation. Rural areas have high levels of migration
which worsens in periods of drought. One of the reasons behind poverty and
low human development indicators is the inaccessibility of many villages.
Women and tribals are among the most disadvantaged groups. While the
gender ratio is the second highest in India after Kerala, female literacy
is low (21 percent in rural areas) and infant mortality is high. Literacy



is lower among tribal people (25 percent) and tribal women (11 percent)
than for the population at large (37 and 21 percent respectively). Tribal
families live on the margin of the agrarian economy serving it with their
cheap labor and skills. Tribal people constitute 70- of the work force in
the state and are mostly employed in the primary sector.
Anti-poverty programs: Today, the central and state governments spend
close to 3t of state GDP in rural development programs in Chhattisgarh.
While this high level of expenditure shows the commitment to rural poverty
alleviation, there are concerns regarding the effectiveness of these
expenditures. Key issues include: proliferation of programs; tied funds
and supply driven investments; poor targeting; lack of funding for group
based activities; high administrative costs; complex procedures;
by-passing of emerging local governments; lack of transparency; and
dubious sustainability of benefits.
Rural decentralization: Despite the 73rd Constitutional Amendment of 1992
that created local governments in rural areas and GoCG's commitment to
rural decentralization (such as increased expenditure authority, knowledge
hubs at the Gram Panchayat (GP) level, etc.), obstacles still stand in the
way of this process and in the emergence of effective and inclusive rural
governments. First, local governments do have neither the capacity nor the
means for basic public management and service delivery. Second, there is
a need to improve the capacity for collective action and inclusion,
particularly in non-tribal villages. Third, while committed to deepening
pro-poor decentralization, the government lacks the expertise to do so.
Government strategy. GoCG's poverty alleviation strategy identifies six
priorities:
developing partnerships with funding organizations and NGOs to reach
grassroots level beneficiaries more effectively;
promoting accountable Panchayati Raj institutions that deliver pro-poor
planning and effective services;
greater empowerment of the poor, especially women and scheduled castes and
scheduled tribes, through the formation of Self-Help Groups;
better management of natural resources and common property at the
Panchayat level;
more effective investment in infrastructure to provide sustainable
employment to the poor, and to reduce migration; and
improving delivery of education, health, drinking water, sanitation and
roads.
2. Objectives
The project's development objective is to improve opportunities for the
poor and vulnerable, especially women and tribals, to meet their own
social and economic development objectives. To achieve this objective the
project would: (i) create infrastructure and income opportunities for the
rural poor; (ii) empower active groups of disadvantaged people; and (iii)
support village governments in becoming more responsive and effective in
assisting them.
The project builds on the lessons from the three District Poverty
Initiatives Projects (DPIPs) under implementation in India [MP DPIP (Cr.
3430-IN), AP DPIP (Cr. 3332-IN), and Rajasthan DPIP (Cr. 3339-IN)].
-2 -



Chhattisgarh was created as a state on November 1, 2000, and was
previously part of Madhya Pradesh (MP), sharing with MP a similar legal,
policy and institutional framework. Therefore, many aspects of the design
of MP DPIP are immediately relevant for Chhattisgarh.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank brings its global experience on decentralized community driven
rural development to India. There is still a great need in India to
promote 'alternative' approaches to rural development and poverty
alleviation, and the Government of Chhattisgarh specifically requested the
project as a means to access the Bank's international experience.
Bank support of five DPIP type projects (MP, AP and Rajasthan under
implementation and the proposed Chhattisgarh DRPP and AP Rural Poverty)
would facilitate the sharing of information among them and enhance both
the quality of each project and their demonstration impact and total value
to India's development.
4. Description
(1) institutional and human capacity building: (a) formation and
strengthening of organizations; (b) communications and information; (c)
human resource development; (d) strengthening of Panchayats; (e)
monitoring, learning and special studies; and (f) project administration
(2) Community Investments:
(a) matching grants for community investments; (b) matching grants for
Panchayat plans; (c) village fund (Gram Kosh); and (d) innovations fund
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $5.40
IBRD
IDA $112.56
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $11.39
Total Project Cost $129.35
6. Implementation
Executing agencies:
Common Interest Groups: Common Interest Groups (CIGs) would be the key
organizations of the poor in project villages. These would be either
existing groups such as self-help groups, forest committees, watershed
associations, savings and credit groups or groups as yet to be formed.
Disadvantaged people would self select themselves and come together around
a common need or an interest and develop a subproject concept, plan and
budget.
Gram Sabhas (Village Assemblies): Gram Sabhas would be responsible for
identifying the target beneficiaries in each village based on objective
wealth ranking criteria, would approve CIG subprojects, Gram Panchayat
plans and capacity building activities, would monitor subproject
implementation (for both CIG and GP), would determine how local
contributions for village investments would be collected, would review all
aspects of subproject management by CIGs and Panchayats, would evaluate
the performance of GPs and PFTs, would decide on the use of the Village
Funds (see below), would ensure coordination with other programs, and
-3 -



would address any disputes arising at the village level.
Gram Panchayats (Village Governments): Gram Panchayats would be
responsible for calling and chairing Gram Sabha meetings, would execute
the decisions of the Gram Sabha, would prepare village plans, budgets and
public subprojects in consultation with the Gram Sabha, would disseminate
DRPP at the village level, and would assist villagers in forming CIGs.
Project Facilitation Teams: Project Facilitation Teams, either specially
trained groups of government staff or NGOs, would be the "stewards" of the
"rules of the game". They would assess the quality of CIGs and Gram
Sabhas in terms of participation, would be the first to disseminate the
rules of the project, would ensure the authenticity of the wealth ranking
exercise, would initially assist GPs with the formation of the first
groups, and would be available as facilitators and resource people to
assist, if requested, with all aspects of project implementation at the
village level. About 40 PFTs would be formed, with about 4 to 5 people,
covering about 25 villages each. Four PFTs are already functioning in the
pilot district of Bilaspur. All PFTs would be in position within six
months of start of implementation. About 20 percent of the PFTs would be
staffed and monitored by NGOs and the other 80 percent by government staff
seconded to the project. Both NGOs and government staff would receive
special orientation and training related to their roles. To the extent
possible PFTs would include women, tribal people and members from the
project villages.
Zilla Panchayats (District Governments): Zilla Panchayats would be the
key institutions in charge of project implementation in each district.
For administrative purposes, they would be supported by the Chief
Executive Officer and staff specifically dedicated to the project (with
expertise on financial management, gender, tribal and environment issues,
communications, monitoring and human resource development). They would
define budget ceilings for CIGs and GPs based on population and
performance, would disburse to CIGs and GPs, would monitor all aspects of
project implementation, would manage the communications campaign, and
would ensure compliance with the tribal strategy and environmental
framework. They would also be responsible for PFTs, and for the capacity
building programs. Finally, they would ensure coordination and
complementarity with other government programs.
Coordination Committee and State Project Unit (SPU): At the state level,
the project would be overseen by a Coordination Committee chaired by the
Chief Minister and including the Ministers of Rural Development, Finance
and Tribal Affairs and others (See Annex 2). Government Orders for this
purpose have been issued. The committee would meet twice a year to address
issues of coordination with other government programs and agencies. An
SPU has been established in the Panchayats and Rural Development
Department and is responsible for the administration of the project. It is
staffed with a Project Director and includes seven staff members covering
the following areas: financial management, procurement, communications,
tribals and environment, monitoring and learning, and capacity building.
Implementation Arrangements:
Core Processes: The project would be implemented through nine core
processes: (1) human resource development, (2) strengthening of
- 4 -



Panchayats, (3) communications and information, (4) formation and
strengthening of organizations, (5) community investments of CIGs, (6)
Panchayat plans, (7) establishment of village funds, (8) funds flow, and
(9) monitoring and learning and special studies.
(1) Human Resource Development would ensure that (a) project staff and
PFTs share project values and have the capacity to contribute to project
objectives; and (b) beneficiaries can develop the skills (technical and
non-technical) needed to implement and manage subprojects, to make
informed choices and contribute to village development. Human resource
development would be the responsibility of one or more Capacity Building
Organizations (CBOs - these could be NGOs or government agencies) which
would cover several districts. CBOs would be supervised by a capacity
building coordinator in the SPU.
(2) Strengthening of Panchayats would assist Panchayats to attain a basic
level of capacity for financial management, accounting, participatory
village planning, revenue generation, access to government schemes,
information and knowledge dissemination and transparency. These Panchayats
would also be eligible to receive technical assistance on special
activities undertaken by them, through a demand driven process. Finally,
it would also strengthen the state training institutes responsible for
capacity building of Panchayats.
(3) Communications and Information would ensure that the target population
has full knowledge of the project, its rules, and funds available, as well
as of other development programs and of decisions taken by implementing
agencies. Communications would be the responsibility of the GPs, PFTs, ZPs
and SPU, which could contract out services at their level.
(4) Formation and Strengthening of Organizations would ensure that
disadvantaged people (women, low caste, tribals) have the first
opportunity to organize themselves into groups capable of voicing their
demands, accessing project resources and eliciting responses from local
governments and other project organizations. This activity would also
assist CIGs involved in similar activities in developing higher level
agency functions and in linking up with the private sector and markets.
(5) Community investments of CIGs would ensure that disadvantaged groups
have a choice over local investments, control the funds, and are
responsible for their implementation. CIGs would identify and submit
subproject proposals (primarily for income generating activities), as they
become ready, to the Gram Panchayats, which would call a meeting of the
Gram Sabha to review and approve (or modify, or reject) them. CIGs would
contribute 5t in cash towards project costs.
(6) Panchayat Plans, covering public goods and services within the
functions devolved to Panchayats in the State Panchayat Act, would be
elaborated annually in a participatory manner and taking into
consideration available schemes, own resources and the funds available
from DRPP. This planning process is currently underway in Chhattisgarh,
and the project would improve its quality and co-finance specific
subprojects included in the Panchayat Plans of the poorest Panchayats.
The project would initially allocate a fixed budget to each Panchayat
based on population (US$5 per capita). Before being eligible for an
- 5-



additional budget, Panchayats would need to meet the following criteria:
(a) positive support to the project through communications, CIG formation
and conducting of participatory Gram Sabhas; (b) provision of safe
drinking water to the poorest habitation from project sources or other
funds; and (c) satisfying basic financial management standards. All GP
subprojects would require community contributions of up to 5t in cash, and
the GS would decide how funds would be raised. The Panchayat plans would
be discussed and approved in a Gram Sabha.
(7) Funds Flow: The project has been budgeted in the Panchayat and Rural
Development Department budget as an identifiable line item for the first
year and this would continue for subsequent years. GoCG would pass on the
funds to the SPU in the Panchayat and Rural Development Department through
a Treasury check. GoCG would ensure adequate advance fund reserves with
the SPU during the entire project period. During the first year of
implementation, GoCG would make the entire annual fund requirement
available to the project and in subsequent years make six monthly releases
equivalent to 50- of the fund requirement on submission of the annual work
plans by the SPU. The SPU would retain a part of the funds to finance its
own activities (costs associated with M&E, special studies etc.) and pass
on the balance to the sixteen ZPs for project implementation. The ZPs
would use the funds for activities at the district level, including
subprojects being implemented by CIGs and GPs. Both at the SPU and at the
ZP levels, the project funds would be maintained in a separate bank
account earmarked for the project. CIGs would not need to be registered
bodies. The Financial Management Manual and Operational Manual along with
the subproject Agreements entered into between CIG/GP and ZP on approval
of the proposal would include information on the agreed financial
management arrangements.
(8) Village Funds (Gram Kosh) would be funds financed through CIG
contributions to cover operation and maintenance costs and further village
development beyond the lifetime of the project. They would thus help
ensure the sustainability of subprojects. These CIG contributions would
be deposited in the Village Fund bank account and would not be used to
finance the specific subproject investment they are associated with.
(9) Monitoring, Learning and Special Studies would ensure that project
stakeholders learn from the project successes and failures. Monitoring
would cover (a) inputs, outputs and outcomes; (b) performance of project
organizations; (c) project processes; and (d) project impacts. Monitoring
for supervision would initially focus on: (i) quality and quantity of
participation of different social and economic groups in the CIG, GS and
GP; and (ii) on the cash contributions of communities. Monitoring of CIGs
would be the responsibility of GPs and PFTs while monitoring of GPs would
be the responsibility of PFTs and ZPs. Monitoring for learning would be
undertaken by different levels of stakeholders - both for their own
decision making purposes and to improve management's understanding of
project processes. Another dimension of project learning would be
cross-learning among the four states - Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya
Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. In addition, special studies would address
specific policy issues: (a) support to the State Finance Commission on
fiscal decentralization; (b) own revenues of Panchayats; (c) traditional
system of governance of tribal people; (d) land administration and common
land management issues; and (e) others.
- 6-



Subproject Agreements & Beneficiary Contributions: The financial
management arrangements for the implementation of the subprojects would
comprise of the following:
The subproject agreements would be based on lump sum contracts with
payments linked to achievement of physical milestones. The milestones and
the payment of installments would be defined in the agreements. These
agreements would also need to indicate the beneficiary contributions
required for each of the milestones. In the case of GPs, the existing MOU
formats between ZPs and GPs would be used.
The lump sum contracts based on achievement of physical milestones would
allow the CIGs and GPs to retain savings, which could arise from
efficiency and economy in project implementation. The savings so retained
would be used only to meet expenditures of operations and maintenance or
to enhance the value of the assets created under the project, as agreed by
the CIG or GP collectively. This requirement would be documented in the
subproject agreements.
CIG/GPs would open a separate subproject bank account where an upfront 5;
cash contribution for subproject activities from the beneficiaries would
be deposited. The funds in this bank account would only be used for
project related payments. Operations and maintenance contributions,
savings from subproject and related payments, would not be made into this
subproject bank account.
The Credit would finance the cost of the subprojects to the extent of 95;
of the total costs. The balance 5t would be contributed by the
beneficiaries as above. The entire 95t of the cost of the subproject would
be released in one tranche into the bank account of the CIG/GP after
confirmation of the receipt of the 5t beneficiary contribution.
There would be an arrangement between the ZPs and the bank that an amount
equivalent to 45t of the cost of the subproject would be immediately made
accessible to the CIG.   The balance 50- of the amount would be released on
the confirmation of the PFT that the CIG has met the conditions as laid
out in the MOU and is eligible to draw the second installment from the
bank. This confirmation would be endorsed and forwarded to the bank by the
ZP. The bank would also confirm the release to the ZP. The second tranche
of the subproject funds would become eligible for disbursements from the
Credit only on its release on certification and not when the funds are
transferred to the bank accounts.
On top of the total cost of the subproject, beneficiaries would contribute
and extra 10. (in lieu of partial cost recovery) towards a Village Fund
called Gram Kosh before the release of the second tranche from the
project. These contributions would be in cash only. The Village Fund would
be maintained by the Gram Panchayat. This fund would remain operational
beyond the life of the Credit and help ensure sustainability in the funds
available to the villages for O&M or new investments.
The release of the payments would be subject to (i) signing of the
Agreement; (ii) opening of the subproject bank account; (iii) deposit of
cash contributions for each milestone into the bank account; (iv) services
of trained book-keeper; (v) certification of achievement of physical
milestones; and (vi) submission of monthly financial reports.
Phasing: The project would be implemented in a phased manner. This would
maximize learning effect, creating incentives for good performance, and
would avoid overburdening project administration. About 120 CIGs have been
formed in the pilot district of Bilaspur during project preparation.
-7 -



During the first year of project implementation, all the target villages
in Bilaspur would be covered, and at least one village in each of the
other districts would be targeted. All selected blocks in all the
districts would be eligible for project funding during the second year.
Within blocks, the project would address villages sequentially instead of
covering all villages at the same time.
7. Sustainability
There are several dimensions of sustainability relevant to the project:
(i) sustainability of collective action and social mobilization; (ii)
sustainability of governance reforms at the local level; (iii)
sustainability of flow of investment funds for the village; (iv)
sustainability of subprojects; and (v) sustainability of institutions. The
sustainability of community and disadvantaged people's capacity for
collective action would be promoted through the project's demonstration
effect. The sustainability of governance reforms at the local level would
depend on the acquired capacity of communities and disadvantaged groups to
exert vigilance and control over government officials. This would be
promoted by creating a habit for good practices, such as public
availability of information, inclusion, and participation in meetings,
etc. The sustainability of investment funds for village investments would
be promoted through the constitution of village funds to be financed
through community contributions. It is expected that by the end of the
project each village would have on an average about US$9,000 in a bank
account to finance village O&M and investments beyond the life of the
project. The sustainability of subprojects would be promoted by first
ensuring that villagers want the subprojects and share in their cost, and
second ensuring that relevant subprojects include an O&M plan proposed by
communities. Finally the sustainability of the various processes piloted
through the project would be promoted by relying on existing, stable, and
constitutionally sanctioned institutions to implement the project, such as
ZPs, GPs and GSs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed project has drawn on the Bank's global experience. The design
of the project incorporates lessons from projects that were effective at
delivering basic infrastructure and services to the poor. In particular,
it reflects lessons learned from Bank-financed rural development projects
in India (e.g. UP Sodic Lands Project, Integrated Watershed Development
Projects, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Projects and Forestry
Projects). Finally, the project is the fifth DPIP/Rural Poverty Project in
India, the others being under implementation in Andhra Pradesh (two
projects), Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, and it includes early lessons
from those projects, namely:
put the community in the driver's seat through control over funds and
investment decisions to achieve efficiency and sustainability;
communities contribute towards investment and operational costs if they
are assured of good service;
it is not enough to mobilize communities for social action - they want
economic opportunities and need investments to be made in these, alongside
social mobilization;
where there is an ongoing process of decentralization and local
governments are emerging, it is important to work through these
institutions to reflect local needs, expedite decision making and to
ensure the institutional sustainability of the programs;
- 8 -



ensure speedy implementation through development of streamlined
procurement and disbursement rules and regulations, detailed operational
manuals, computerized MIS, standardized financial management procedures,
regular and rigorous auditing, and quantitative monitoring and evaluation;
create competitive employment conditions for the project management staff
to attract and retain competent and motivated individuals; and
implementation through government channels at the district level
facilitates coordination across agencies in supporting beneficiaries.
Project design incorporates the following features and lessons from MP
DPIP, as Chhattisgarh was until November 2000 a part of MP:
groups of disadvantaged people have full capacity to choose what is best
for them, procure technical assistance, manage project funds and implement
the subprojects;
one of the main challenges is the top down and supply driven approach of
government officials and NGOs in proposing solutions to communities; hence
it is necessary to carefully select project staff and orient and train
them on the values of the project;
the Gram Sabhas (village assemblies) do an excellent job in applying the
project criteria for selecting the poorest families;
a communication strategy for the target population is important;
disbursements start slow because of community mistrust of the government
but increase quickly as trust and information are established; communities
tend to move from small group based income generating activities to
village or multi-village infrastructure projects;
for transparency and ease of implementation project rules need to be kept
as simple as possible;
a separate body such as a Society is not necessary for efficient
implementation as long as appropriate financial arrangements are put in
place; and
matching grants create incentives for savings since communities need to
make substantial cash contributions; after a first stage in which they
receive matching grants for productive projects and develop a relationship
with bank officials, groups of poor people are often able to deepen their
relationship with financial institutions, with increased access to credit.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Environmental issues may arise in the village
investments component, but these are likely to be minor since subprojects
would not exceed US$50,000, are expected to average US$5,000, and most
would cost less than US$1,000. An Environmental Management Framework
(EMF) has been developed instead of an EMP following the usual practice in
projects of this type where types of investment are not known ex-ante.
The EMF would:
prevent execution of subprojects with potentially significant negative
environmental impacts;
decrease potential minor negative impacts through modifications in
subproject design, location or execution; and
prevent or mitigate cumulative negative impacts as the result of multiple
small-scale investments.
9



10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Luis F. Constantino
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
eb: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 28, 2002.
- 10 -



