DRAFT
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
E662
November 23, 2002
For The
Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
Department of Panchayati Raj and Rural Development
Government of Chhattisgarh, Raipur
November 23, 2002
FILE COPS



DRAFT
1.Introduction
The District Poverty Reduction Project aims at poverty alleviation in all the 16 districts of
Chhattisgarh using a strategy that takes precaution that the environment is not negatively
impacted while addressing the needs for socio-economic well being of the people. The issue
to be addressed in the Environmental Strategy for District Poverty Reduction Program is how
environmental damage can be avoided or reduced so as to ensure that development initiatives
and their benefits are sustainable. The directive of environmental management should be to
achieve the greatest benefit presently possible for the use of natural resources without
reducing their potential to meet future needs and the carrying capacity of the environment.
Environmental Strategy for the District Poverty Reduction Program aims at predicting the
environmental impacts at an early stage in project planning and design, finding ways and
means to reduce adverse impacts, shape projects to suit the local environment and present the
predictions and options to decision-makers. Some environmental problems may appear to be
insignificant when considered within an individual proposal but might have adverse
consequences if the effects of all such proposals are added together (cumulative effects). The
aim is to prevent the impact of individually harmful sub projects or environmental
degradation as a result of either the cumulative effect of many small DPIP investments that
individually have negligible impact.
Also by carrying out environmental analysis before the implementation of the project,
environmental and economic benefits can be achieved, such as reduced cost and time of
project implementation and design, avoided treatment/clean-up costs and impacts of laws and
regulations.
2.    Project Area
All the 16 districts of Chhattisgarh have been selected under DPRP. Of these, Raipur,
Dhamtari, Mahasamund, Durg, Rajnandgaon, Kawardha, Bilaspur, Janjgir Champa, Korba,
Raigarh and part of Bastar come under the agro-climatic zone Chhattisgarh Plains, Batar,
Kanker and Dantewada come under the Bastar Plateau and Sarguja and Koriya come under
the Northern Hill Region of Chhattisgarh. The project area does not include any National
Parks in the state of Chhattisgarh.
3.    Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
While EIA has been primarily practised in industrialised countries as a project-oriented
planning tool, the evolving concept of sustainable development has highlighted the need for
the role of EIA to be expanded and for other techniques, such as strategic environment
assessment, to be developed to complement the procedure. With these types of issues in mind
the International Study of the Effectiveness of Environmental Assessment was launched in
1993 as a joint initiative of the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency and the
Intemational Association of Impact Assessment to:
* review recent trends, key issues and emerging directions for environmental
assessment;
* examine the contribution of environmental assessment to problem-solving and
decision-making;



DRAFT
*  identify and document elements of environmental assessment systems that work well;
and
* recommend cost-effective measures for improving the application and management of
environmental assessment.
One of the outcomes of the two-year process of review, consultation and discussion during
the International Study has been the identification of a series of core values, guiding
principles and operating principles for the practice of EIA.
EIA - Three core values
* sustainability - the EIA process will result in environmental safeguards
*  integrity - the EIA process will conform to agreed standards
* utility - the EIA process will provide balanced, credible information for decision-
making
EIA - Eight guiding principles
* participation - appropriate and timely access to the process for all interested parties
* transparency - all assessment decisions, and their basis, should be open and
accessible
* certainty - the process and timing of assessment should be agreed in advance and
followed by all participants
*  accountability - decision-makers are responsible to all parties for their actions and
decisions under the assessment process
* credibility - assessments are undertaken with professionalism and objectivity
* cost-effectiveness - the assessment process and its outcomes will ensure
environmental protection at the least cost to society
* flexibility - the assessment process should be able to adapt to deal efficiently and
effectively with any proposal or decision-making situation
* practicality - the information and outputs provided by the assessment process are'
readily usable in decision-making and planning
EIA should address, wherever necessary or appropriate:
* all related and relevant factors, including social and health risks and impacts
* cumulative and long-term, large-scale effects
* design, locational and technological alternatives to the proposal being assessed
* sustainability considerations including resource productivity, assimilative capacity
and biological diversity
EIA should result in:
*  accurate and appropriate information as to the nature, likely magnitude and
significance of potential effects, risks and consequences of a proposed undertaking
and alternatives to it
*  the preparation of an impact statement or report that presents this information in a
clear, understandable and relevant form for decision-making, including reference to
qualifications, confidence limits in the predictions made
*  ongoing problem solving and conflict resolution to the extent possible during the
application of the process



DRAFT
EIA should provide the basis for:
*  environmentally sound decision-making in which terms and conditions are clearly
specified and enforced
*  the design, planning and construction of acceptable development projects that meet
environmental standards and resource management objectives
*  an appropriate follow-up process with requirements for monitoring, management,
audit and evaluation that are based on the significance of potential effects, the
uncertainty associated with prediction and mitigation, and the opportunity for making
future improvements in project design or process application
4. The Process of Environmental Assessment
The environmental assessment for this project will focus on the linkages between the project
activities and the surrounding environment. It will first examine how the project might affect
human resource and stocks of natural resource, and then consider what measures might be
introduced to mitigate the negative environmental impacts of the project.
4.1   Screening- This involves a broad analysis of the impacts of project activities with a
view to identifying those which will entail a detailed study. Screening would be undertaken
at the time of project identification. Environmental screening helps to determine the choice of
EA instruments, depending on the needs of the project. Based on the location, the type of
activities in the sub-project, the range of impacts and their magnitudes and the availability or
absence of mitigatory measures, four Categories of sub-projects have been identified and
four categories of environmental assessment suggested for these
Category D: The proposed sub-project doesn't depend on or use any natural resource
directly (such as water, forests, grazing land, soil, etc) and more importantly doesn't
adversely impact any natural resource (such as ground water depletion, soil erosion, and loss
of Biodiversity). A detailed environmental assessment is not required for sub-projects in this
category (such as a sub-project on tailoring). However, depending on feasibility, some
proactive environmental interventions may be included.
Category C: The proposed sub-project has either marginal or short-term impact on the
natural resources or environment (such as a small scale cooking operation that consumes fuel
wood). Projects, which have moderate environmental impacts for which standard mitigative
measures may be applied. In such cases Environmental Review is suggested.
Category B: If the proposed project has a significant or irreversible or long-term negative
impact (such as bore well leading to depletion of ground water), Limited Environmental
Assessment is suggested.
Category A: If the proposed sub-project has a severe adverse environmental impact, that
cannot be mitigated within a feasible timeframe and budget, Environmental Impact
Assessment is suggested. However, the probability of such sub-projects emerging is very
less. In case such a sub-project does emerge, it will most likely be rejected, as mitigation
would demand time and resources beyond that available for a sub-project.
Category C assessment will be done by the PFT and the CIG.



DRAFT
Category B assessment will be done by at the district level by the District Environment Team
(DET)
Category A assessment will be commissioned by the State Project Monitoring Unit in
consultation with the Environment Agency.
Besides this a negative list of subprojects is attached in Annex 1. It is suggested that the
projects included in the list not be supported in DPRP.
4.2   Assessment of Potential Impacts of Sub-projects
After classifying the sub-project and ensuring that it does not belong to the negative list, the
PFT/ District'Environment Team proceeds to use the appropriate assessment tools.
Category D: No detailed environmental assessment is necessary. However, efforts should to
enhance the positive impacts of such projects.
Category C: If the screening indicates that Environmental Review is required, the PFT is to
refer the subproject to the DET who will use the Environmental Review tools to determine
measures to mitigate the impacts of the sub-project, if it is decided to proceed with the sub-
project.
Category B: If the screening indicates that a Limited Environmental assessment is required,
the PFT will refer it to the DET. The DET will refer to Annex 3 determine (i) whether or not
to proceed with the sub-project (ii) measures to mitigate the impacts of the sub-project, if it is
decided to proceed with the sub-project.
Category A: If the screening indicates that EIA is required, the PFT will refer it to the DPSU.
The DPSU will forward the sub-project for assessment to the SPU. The SPU will issue a
contract in consultation with the Environment Agency for a detailed Environmental Impact
Assessment of the sub-project.
4.3   Documentation
On the basis of above, the Environmental Appraisal Report will be prepared which will
include the project location, project description, identification and prediction of impacts,
analysis
of impacts, clearly stated and argued recommendations for immediate action and a list of
altematives with comments on the economic impacts of each. At a minimum the document
should contain:
i)    A description of the proposed activity;
ii)   A description of the potentially affected environment, including specific information
necessary for identifying and assessing the environmental effects of the proposed
activity;
iii)  A description of practical alternatives as appropriate;
iv)   An assessment of the likely or potential environmental impacts of the proposed
activity and alternatives, including the direct, indirect, cumulative, short-term and
v)    long-term effects;



DRAFT
vi)   An identification and description of measures available to mitigate adverse
environmental impacts of the proposed activity and alternatives, and an assessment of
those measures;
vii)  An indication of gaps in knowledge and uncertainties which may be encountered in
compiling the required information;
5.    Administrative Structure for Environmental Assessment of DPRP Sub Projects
Preliminary activities would include the appointment of an Environmental Agency. It will be
responsibility of the Environmental Agency to:
*  Train the'district environment team to carry out Environmental Assessments of projects
requiring ER and LEA.
*  Monitor implementation of the EMF and keep abreast of the changing environmental con
*  cerns and inform the SPU and DETs accordingly.
*  Develop standard mitigatory measures for the common sub-project types
*  Carry out EIAs of sub projects where requested by the SPU or draft the ToR for EIAs and
facilitate the process of hiring an independent agency for EIA.
*  Carry out supervision of at least 5% of all subprojects and at least 10% of subprojects
requiring LEA/ EIA.
The sequence of activities involved in environmental appraisal of the sub project is illustrated
below:
I) The sub project is identified by the CIGs and formulated in consultation with the
PFT.
2) A prescribed pro forma, the green form or the environmental clearance application
(Annex 1) is filled by the CIGs with the help of PFT.
3) PFT screens the sub-projects based on checklist for Screening of Subprojects (Annex
2 and 3).
4) In case the screening indicates that Environmental Review is required, the prescribed
application pro forma along with proposed mitigation plan (Annex 5.2) is filled by the
PFT on the basis of Environmental Review Guidelines (Annex 5.1) and submitted to
the DPSU, to be cleared at their level. Once the projects are cleared on the basis of
Environmental Review, the PFT will ensure the compliance of mitigatory measures.
5) In case the screening checklist indicates that a project requires LEA, then the
prescribed form (Annex 6.2) should be filled out by the CIGs with the help of PFT
on the basis of LEA guidelines (Annex 6.1) and submitted to the DPSU.
6) DPSU will appoint the DET trained by the Environmental Agency to conduct the
LEA.
7) For sub-projects that require an EIA the PFT will inform the DPSU which will
convey the information to the SPSU. The SPSU in consultation with the Environment
Agency will decide on the steps for having the EIA conducted.
8) All the project proposals with application for EIA should be forwarded to the
Environmental Agency within a week after receiving the application
6.    Training



DRAFT
Training programmes to equip the DPSU staff members (responsible for facilitating
implementation of the EMF) and the DET members and PFT members in using the
environmental assessment tools will be organized by the Environment Agency. A session on
the EMF will be part of the induction training for the CIGs. Each PFT will organize
environmental awareness programmes for the communities at least once every year. For
detailed course content, course duration and costs of training refer to Annex 9.
7.    Environmental Supervision and Monitoring
Environmental supervision would be carried out at two levels. At the district level, as part of
their overall supervisory responsibilities, the DPSU staff would be required to verify that
PFTs are cotrectly using EMF guidelines and outputs, and the environment mitigation
measures prescribed in the approved sub-project are implemented. These supervision reports
would be submitted to the Environment Agency for review of the EMF implementation.
At the state level, the Environment Agency will conduct six-monthly supervision of the
EMF, selecting a sample of subprojects from different categories of environmental
assessment. It is the responsibility of the Environment Agency to remain abreast of the
changing environmental conditions and emerging environmental concerns in the project
areas. The EA will constantly be involved in collecting information from various
departments of the Government and civil society sources. On the basis of the information, the
Environment Agency will recommend revisions to the EMF and highlight local concerns to
the DPSUs.
8.    Budget
A budget of Rs. 15 million will be set aside in the project for the purpose of implementing the
Environmental Management Framework. This will be spread across Training, hiring of the
Environmental Agency and the assessment activities. The detailed breakup of Budget For
Environment Capacity Building and Consultancy Fees is as follows.
Cost Head                                        Amount INR
Training component
Course l: Environmental Awareness Raising For DPIP
beneficiaries.                                           2915140
Course II: Basic environmental screening and mitigation
for PFT members                                          1500000
Course III: Limited Environmental Assessment for
District Environment Team                                 192000
Course IV: Environmental Management Framework for
SPSU and DPSU Staff                                       159000
Course V: Environmental Impact Assessment for
Environmental Consultants                                  64000
Consultancies
Consultancy Fee for Environmental Agency                 8000000
Consultancy Fee for EIA Consultants                       500000
Total                                                   13330140



DRAFT
Annexures
1:    Environmental Clearance Application (Green Form)
2:    Guidelines for Screening of Sub-projects
3:    Generic List of Sub-projects and Environmental Assessment Categories
4:    Negative List of Sub-projects
5:    Format and Guidelines for Environmental Review (ER) of Sub-Projects
6:    Format and Guidelines for Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA)
of Sub-Projects
7:    Natural Resources to be Impacted, Nature of Impact and Indicators
8:    Dam Safety Plan
9:    Training and Capacity Building for the Environment Management Framework of DPRP



DRAFT
Annex 1: Environmental Clearance Application (Green Form)
1) Present Land Use:
(Forest/ Wasteland/ Grazing Land/ Fallow Land/ Agricultural Land/ Government Land/ Private
Land/ Any other specify)
2) Likely Impacts
i)        Land: Yes/ No              If Yes, specify
(Soil drosion/ Land slide/ Contamination of soil through accumulation of waste material,
Degradation of productive agricultural land, Contamination of soil due to use of fertilisers,
pesticides and herbicides, Loss of grazing land, any other specify)
ii)       Water: Yes/ No             If Yes, specify
(Increase in runoff, Increased sedimentation into streams, Loss of fishery, Creation of
stagnant water pool or water logging, Water pollution including contamination of surface or
ground water, Water pollution due to use of fertilisers, pesticides, herbicides, Contamination
of drinking water, Contamination by livestock, poultry, Problems of waste water disposal,
Overexploitation of aquifers leading to ground water depletion, Clogging of drainage, any
others specify)
Ili)      Air Yes/ No                 If Yes, specify
(Dust during construction, due to movement of vehicles, Increased air pollution due to use of
polluting fuels, Increased pollution due to burning of waste, Pollution due to increased
vehicular traffic, agricultural equipments, tractors, diesel pumps etc.)
(Iv)      Noise: Yes/ No              If Yes, specify
(Increase in noise levels during construction or operation)
(v)       Odour: Yes/ No             If Yes, specify
(Increased odour)
(vi)      Solid waste
(Solid waste generation, problem of garbage disposal)
(vi)      Flora and Fauna' Yes/ No    If Yes, specify



DRAFT
(Disruption of natural habitats of flora and fauna, Loss of vegetation, Disruption and
destruction of vegetation, wildlife, Threat to rare and endangered species, Encroachment in
ecologically sensitive areas)
(vii)     Aesthetics: Yes/ No                If Yes, specify
(Marred landscapes, debris)
(viii)     Historical Cultural Sites. Yes/ No  If Yes, specify
(Disturbance to and degradation of Historical and Cultural sites)
(ix)      Health: Yes/ No                    If Yes, specify
(Increased chances of accidents, Transport of hazardous substances, Health hazard from
improper waste disposal, Emission of methane or other noxious chemicals, Risk of water
borne diseases, Mosquito breeding due to stagnant water around the project site, Spread of
disease from animal vectors, Toxicity from pesticides
3. Mitigatory Measures



DRAFT
Annex 2: Guidelines for Screening of Sub-projects
Step 1: Identify natural resources impacted by the sub-project
Identify the natural resources proposed to be used, the nature of impacts, including whether
short or long-term impact, from implementation of the proposed sub-project.
Name of the sub project: ................ :  .
Resources to be used eg. Soil/grasses/forest lands
Nature of impacts eg.: short term; reversible; medium to long term; irreversible; impacts on
health, natural resources etc.
Source of information and method:
Information on resources to be used and nature of impact could be obtained by discussion
with village community, field visit and observation in a location where a similar project
activity was implemented and finally by consulting the experts at the district level.
Step II: Decision on level of environmental assessment
The decision on level of environment assessment to be adopted depends on the extent of
dependence or use of natural resources, extent of impact on the resources, nature of impact
such as short or long-term impact, possibility to mitigate the impacts.
Three levels of environmental assessment are suggested:
No Review: The proposed sub-project doesn't depend on or use any natural resource directly
(such as water, forests, grazing land, soil, etc) and more importantly doesn't adversely impact
any natural resource or health (such as pollution, ground water depletion, soil erosion, and
loss of Biodiversity).
Environmental Review (ER): The proposed sub-project has either marginal or short-term
impact on the natural resources or health. Even if a project has only positive or beneficial
impact (such as soil and water conservation), it is necessary to ensure the positive impacts.
Thus Environmental Review is suggested.
Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA): If the proposed project has large adverse impact
or irreversible or long-term negative impact (such as bore well leading to depletion of ground
water).
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA): If the proposed sub-project has a severe adverse
environmental impact, that cannot be mitigated within a feasible timeframe and budget, EIA
is suggested. This is a detailed assessment that would be carried out by the Environmental
Agency or an independent agency contracted by the State Project Unit.



DRAFT
Annex 3: Generic List of Sub-projects and Environmental Assessment Categories
Category D
Sub projects         Natural      Remarks
Resource
Used
Bamboo skill         Bamboo       Programme component is only training i.e.,
development                       skill development. Training should include
sustainable extraction of bamboo
Mike set and lighting             It is a business. Usage of energy efficient
unit    '                         lighting should be encouraged
Jeep                 Diesel       Diesel is not a local resource. The number of
jeeps proposed, even under different sub-
projects, is not likely to be large. However, a
check on the number is required.
Readymade garments/  Nil          No natural resource usage.
cloth business
Rickshaws            Nil          It is a service sector enterprise using human
labour.
Skill development on  Nil         Programme component is only training i.e.,
tailoring                         skill development.
Business (Tamarind /  Nil         Programme component is marketing. May
Vegetable / Amla / Dal            emphasize on sustainable extraction.
and oil / Ground nut
/petty shop /fish)
Tent House           Nil          Programme component is service.
Band set             Nil          It is a service sector enterprise.
Bullock carts        Nil          It is a service sector enterprise.
Candle making unit    Fuel wood   Insignificant fuel consumption because it is
low temperature heating
Category C: (Environmental Review)
Sub Projects     Natural Resource  Potential Positive  Potential Negative
Impacted           Impacts            Environmental Impacts
(minor/short-term)
Agarbathi        Human health                         Impact on health from
making                                                harmful chemicals if no
____________________ ____________________  protection
Bamboo           Bamboo                               Over extraction of bamboo
products unit
Creche/ Child    Health and hygiene  Improved health, if  Adverse impact on health if
care centre                        sanitation and     sanitation and drinking
drinking water     water are not provided
provided
Irrigation canal  Soil             If soil water      Enhanced soil erosion,
conservation       water loss and water
practices          logging



DRAFT
implemented
Dairy           Grazing land and   Improved fertilizer  Over grazing
crop land          value of dung if  Adverse effect on
composted         regeneration
Conserving         Poor health if sanitation
fuelwood if biogas  facility absent in cattle shed
is used for cooking
Community       Water                                 Exotic species of fish may
pisciculture                                          harm native fish species
Excessive feed may cause
eutrophication in small
ponds
Community        Soil                                 Use of pesticides
vegetable
growing
Land            Land and soil      Conserves soil and  Wrong practices may lead
development                        moisture and      to soil erosion and loss of
prevents erosion   moisture holding capacity
Construction of  Livestock         Improved hygiene  If no proper waste
sheds for animals population       conditions         collection and disposal,
poor sanitation results
NTFP collection  Trees and other                      Over harvesting, affects
plants                               regeneration, tree growth
and health
Food making     Tree wood                             Wood / Tree depletion
Wood chips      Trees                                If wood harvested non-
cutting                                               sustainably or over
extraction leads to tree
depletion
Poultry farms    Soil              Poultry waste as
manure
Bullocks        Grazing land and   Improved fertilizer  Over grazing
crop land          value of dung     Adverse effect on
Biogas for cooking  regeneration of forests
leads to conserving
fuelwood
Godown          Soil                                  Loss of top soil
construction to
store forest
produce
Paddy cultivation  Soil and water                     Use of pesticides
usage                                Over irrigation leads to
salinization
Goat rearing    Grazing lands/                        Excessive grazing can cause
forests                              degradation if mitigatory
measures are not
undertaken; a check on the
cumulative impacts is
necessary



DRAFT
Category B: Limited Environmental Assessment
Sub Projects   Natural       Resource Depletion or     Potential Long-term
Resource      Degradation
Impacted
Brick making    Soil         Loss of fertile soil      Loss of top soil
Wood or fuel  Loss of tress
Bore well       Ground water Ground water depletion    Loss of ground water
Minor           Water        Loss of water             Water submergence
Irrigation Tank  Soil        Loss of soil for          Enhanced soil erosion
Land          embankment
Loss of land
Lift Irrigation  Water       Ground water decline if   Loss of ground water
(Open well    bore well
or            Water level decline if open
Bore well)    well
Check dams     Land and      Prevents soil erosion    Land submergence
water        Improved percolation of
water
Category A: Environmental Impact Assessment
This is for sub-projects, which are likely to have very serious negative impact on the
environment, and for which an EIA will be required.



DRAFT
Annex 4: Negative List of Sub-projects
It is recommended that the following sub-projects must not be supported through
Chhattisgarh DPRP
1. Environmental Assessment
Any sub-project not screened for Environmental impacts.
2. Forests and wildlife
Any sub-projlect that is likely to cause damage to wildlife, or likely to cause damage to a
sanctuary by setting fire, injuring wildlife, or involves indiscriminate felling of trees or
involves removal of plant, animal or mineral produce from a sanctuary.
Any sub-project located within a national park
3.    Concerning Dams
Any sub-project that involves construction of a dam (old or new) of I Ometres or more height.
4.    Concerning Agriculture
Any agricultural sub-project that does not incorporate integrated pest management (IPM)
approaches
Any agriculture sub-project that intends to use banned pesticides, agrochemicals in WHO
Classes IA, IB and II
Any subproject that involve manufacturing, sale, stocking, distribution or exhibiting for sale
insecticides without a licence
Any sub-project that involves intensive aquaculture including harvest of fish/shrimp seed
from the wild, pumping of saline water, conversion of prime agricultural land into
aquaculture ponds
5. Miscellaneous
Any subproject that involves promotion of or desecration of a religion or a religious place or
cultural property.



DRAFT
Annex 5: Format and Guidelines for Environmental Review of Sub-Projects
5.1   Guidelines for Environmental Review
Environment Review will involve seeking information on the resources to be used and
impacted, type or nature of impact, what indicators could be used to assess impacts, can the
impacts be measured, if the impacts are negative can the adverse impacts be minimized or
avoided.
Source of Information and Methods:
Information needed (as given in the format below) could be obtained from
i)    CIG members (and village community or farmers or artisans),
ii)   field visit to a location where a similar project has been implemented,
iii)  reference to technical literature and
iv)   experts in the relevant field at the district level.
Given the wide range of potential projects and impacts, it is difficult to suggest specific
methods. However, a sample of the types of impacts, indicators for assessing the impacts and
method for assessment are given in Appendix I (at the end of this section).
It is very important to obtain the opinion and perspective of local community or persons who
are likely to be impacted by the implementation of the project.



DRAFT
5.2   Format for Environmental Review
Sub project: .........................................................................................
Information required on    Record observations here
1. Resources to be used   What resources will be used
for the sub-project (for
initiating the sub-project,
during implementation of
the sub-project, etc.)?
Ex: soil, tree leaves,
groundwater, fuel
Discuss with community
2. Resources to be impacted  What resources will be
impacted? Ex: soil, ground
water, open well water, tree
leaves, grass, etc.
Discuss with community
3.Type of impact           What type of impact:
* Positive or negative
* Depletion of resources
or degradation of
resource
* Long-term or short-term
Discuss with community
and project staff
4. What are the indicators of What indicator can be used?
impact?                   Discuss with project staff
Refer technical literature
5. Quantification of impact  Can the impact be
-  Is it possible?      measured, if yes, what can
-  If no, opinion of    be measured
village community    Discuss with community
6. If impact is positive,  What activities or practices
what needs to be done to   should be stressed to ensure
ensure it?                 positive impacts
Discuss with community
and project staff
7. If negative impact, is it  Possibility to minimize or
possible to mitigate?     avoid negative impacts
Discuss with community
and project staff
8. If yes, what mitigation  Improved technology /
measure could be          practices
suggested?                Discuss with community
and project staff
9. Indicators for mitigation  List indicators for improved
measures                  technology / practices
Discuss with community
and project staff



DRAFT
Annex 6: Format and Guidelines for Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA)
of Sub-Projects
6.1   Guidelines for Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA)
If the sub-project needs LEA, adopt the following procedure, which is only an
elaboration of the procedure adopted for ER. Under this approach, more detailed or
intensive quantitative methods could be adopted to evaluate the potential impacts, to
enable decision on the project. Projects that need LEA are likely to have significant
and medium to long-term impact on natural resources. Thus, the impacts have to be
quantitatively assessed and mitigation measures integrated into the recommendations
on the sub-project. If the impacts are long-term and irreversible, an alternate sub-
project providing the same or similar service or benefit needs to be suggested.
Source of Information and methods:
As the impacts are likely to be adverse and long-term, systematic and scientific
measurement of impacts may be necessary. The types of impacts, examples of
indicators and methods for different resources are given in Appendix-I at the end of
this section. Methods could include:
i)    Participatory approach
ii)   Field visit and observation
iii)  Technical or scientific measurement of indicators
iv)   Consultations with experts



DRAFT
6.2   Format for Limited Environmental Assessment
Sub-project. .........................................................................................
Information required on    Record observations and
measurements here
1. Resources to be used   What resources will be used
for the sub-project (for
initiating the sub-project,
during implementation of
the sub-project, etc.)? Ex:
soil, tree leaves,
groundwater, fuel
Discuss with community
2. Resources to be impacted  What resources will be
impacted? Ex: soil, ground
water, open well water, tree
leaves, grass, etc.
Discuss with community
3. Type of impact          What type of impact:
*  Positive or negative
*  Depletion of resources
or degradation of
resource
*  Long-term or short-term
Discuss with community
and project staff
4. What are the indicators of What indicator can be used?
impact?                   Discuss with project staff
Refer technical literature
5. Measurement of          Refer to methods suggested
indicators - Methods       for similar indicators in
appendix or to other similar
projects with similar
impacts.
6. Quantification of impacts  Use methods suggested as
above to measure the
indicators
Consult community
7. If impact is short term,  Mitigation measures
what is the mitigation    Discuss with community
measure suggested?        and project staff
8. If impact is long-term,  Mitigation measures
what is the mitigation    Discuss with community
measure needed?           and project staff
9. If difficult to mitigate  Alternate sub-project or
what alternate practice   technology/practice
could be suggested        Discuss with experts



DRAFT
Annex 7: Natural Resources to be Impacted, Nature of Impact and Indicators
Natural resource          Impact               Indicator             Methods
and health
Soil                Soil erosion           Gravel exposure      Field observation
Gully formation
Soil extraction       Depth and area of soil  Observation and
extraction            measurement
Soil conservation      Soil conservation    Observation of
measures implemented  presence of soil
l                                                   conservation
structures
Soil pollution        Presence of toxic
chemicals             Laboratory test
Water               Ground water depletion  Depth of bore wells  Measurement of
water level
Loss of water in open
well                   Depth of water in open  Laboratory analysis
wells
Water pollution
affecting health       Presence of coliform  Field Observation
bacteria
Water logging
High water table
(water below soil     Survey
surface)
Availability of drinking                     Survey
water                  Human effort for
collecting water
.___ ____ ____ ____   _____ _____Presence  of taps
Forest              Forest loss/ clearing  Area of forest cleared  Area estimate
forests                or converted
Number of trees and   Counting or
species felled        estimation of trees
felled
Over lopping of trees  Percentage of trees  Counting of damaged
with crown damage     trees / ha
Loss of biodiversity   No of species and    Counting of number
species wise density  of plants of different
Trees                 species per hectare.
Medicinal plants
Counting tree
Absence of             Percentage of trees in  seedlings in different
regeneration           tree girth range < 5  tree girth classes
cm, 5-10cm,> 10cm.    .



DRAFT
Annex 8: Dam Safety Plan
I. In the Chhattisgarh DPRP, there are sub-projects proposed for funding under the
Community Investment Fund (CIF) component. Some of these sub-projects are water
retention structures / dams, which are relevant in the context of the Bank's Operational
Policy OP 4.37 Safety of Dams. This Dam Safety Plan has been prepared to ensure that
the provisions of the Bank's Operational Policy are met by the project.
2. As this project is going to adopt a community demand driven approach, the sub-projects
that will be undertaken cannot be specified with certainty upfront. Drawing from the
MPDPIP implementation experience so far, the possible sub-projects are as follows:
* Masonry Check Dams: These are for the purpose of diversion of irrigation water.
* Rehabilitation, re-sectioning and unsilting of village tanks for irrigation and water
supply.
* Construction of earthen tank for minor irrigation (usually less than 100 acres)
Negative list
3. No sub-project involving a dam (existing or new) of lOm high or more will be permitted.
Sub-project Design & Construction Management Principles
4. For dam sub-projects below 10 m, the project will follow a Design and Construction
Manual for check dams (and other water retention structures), which includes the
following:
* Design guidelines on determining the dam sizes, sizing of reservoir capacity and other
salient design features.
* Design guidelines on how to provide for adequate spillways.
* Design guidelines for deciding the appropriate downstream slope.
* Construction guidelines for an earth filling procedure.
* Other generic dam safety measures.
5. The design of the dam sub-projects would be done by qualified engineers.
Training
6. Whenever there are dam sub-projects, beneficiaries will be given training by qualified
engineers. This training will focus on the maintenance of the dam sub-projects and will be
organized by the concemed DPSU.
Monitoring
7. For each dam sub-projects, the DPSU will ensure that the engineers who designed the
dam revisit the sites during the initial filling of the reservoirs and suggests appropriate
remedial measures in case any abnormal behaviour is observed.



DRAFT
Records
8. All design and construction reports will be available in print and will be maintained as
records for future reference. These will be retained during the project period in the
respective DPSU and, subsequently, with an appropriate authority.



DRAFT
An'nex 9: Training and Capacity Building for the Environment Management Framework
of DPRP
Course I: Environmental Awareness Raising For DPRP Beneficiaries
Ultimately, the prevention of environmental damage and promotion of environmental
improvements under the DPRP will depend on the enthusiasm and understanding of the
subproject beneficiaries. Environmental awareness raising modules shall help in wider DPRP
grass-roots publicity and information & communicational effort.
Course content
These modules shall highlight the need for environmental protection, and promote activities
for environmental improvement that may be supported by the DPRP. The use of creative
mechanisms for grass-roots communication, such as theatre, will be considered with the
guidance of the SPSU and DPSU training experts.
Environmental Awareness Raising module will be integrated into the orientation and
sensitization module of the CIGs. The PFTs will focus an orientation specifically on this
subject
Total course duration
The course shall be of half-day duration.
Cost of training
Assumptions:
* There are 145757 CIG members attending the training
* This is for the entire project period of 5 years
* The training will be for 4 - 5 hours
* Cost of the training including boarding, training material, stationery will be Rs.20 per
person.
Total cost based on above assumption = Rs29,15,140 (145757 x 20)



DRAFT
Course II: Basic Environmental Screening and Mitigation For PFT Members
To enable the PFT member to effectively apply the Environmental Review Guideline (ERG),
the Environmental Agency shall prepare and deliver courses on Basic Environmental
Screening and Mitigation. In this course, the most fundamental environmental issues and
problems that can be expected in a given project will be described and the standard
mitigation measures will be taught.
This course will be integrated with the Module 4' of the PFTs
Course content
The course shall be tailored to emphasize local environmental issues. The PFT member will
be trained with a practical orientation to carry out ERG for the sub-projects. It is best to have
a small batch for the training which does not exceed 25 members.
Total course duration
The course shall be of one day.
Cost of training
Assumptions:
No of PFTs = 40
No of members per PFT = 5
No of days of training = I day
No of trainings per year = I; Therefore no. of trainings for 5 years = 5
Amount per person per day for the training = Rs 1500/-
Total cost based on above assumptions = Rs 15,00,000 (40 x 5 x I x 5 x 1500)
Refer to training and capacity building strategy paper



DRAFT
Course III: Limited Environmental Assessment for District Environmental Teams
To enable the District Environment Team Members to effectively carry out the Limited
Environment Assessment, the environmental issues and problems that can be expected in a
given project will be described and the steps involved in conducting the LEA taught.
Course content
The course contains an orientation to the basic tenets of Limited Environment Assessment.
1) The local environmental issues of concern and impact of the sub-project on theme
2) Steps involved in conducting the LEA study
The course shall be tailor-made district wise to incorporate local environmental issues of
concern.   J
Total course duration
The course shall be of two-day duration with approximately 32 participants in a single batch.
Location
The course will be conducted at the state level.
Cost of training
Assumptions:
No of DET members sent for training = 2.
No of days of training = 2 days
No of trainings during the project period = 2
Amount per person per day for the training = Rs 1500/-
Total cost based on above assumptions = Rs 1,92,000 (32 x 2 x 2 x 1500)



DRAFT
Course IV: Training in Environmental Management Framework for SPSU and DPSU
Staff
To ensure that DPIP staff at the district and state levels understand the objectives of the
Environmental Management Framework (EMF), and are equipped to implement it
effectively, the EA will prepare and deliver courses for DPSU and SPSU personnel.
Line department staff at district level will be consulted for subproject preparation and
implementation. Apart from them, the Project Directors and the Project offices also can be
trained in order to have a check on the technical committee.
This course has to be given to following people
SN   Personal/Designation           Level              Number
I    Project Coordinator            SPSU                               I
Co-ordinator Human Resources                                      1
2    District Project Manager (lx16)  DPSU                            16
Project Coordinators (2x16)                                      32
Members   from   district  line                                   3
departments (3)
Therefore, the total number of trainees for this course shall be 53.
Course content
These courses shall cover all elements of the EMF, including ER, LEA and EIA, as well as
the environmental supervision, monitoring and auditing requirements.
Total course duration
The course shall be of two-day duration with approximately 26 participants in one batch.
Location
The course will be conducted at the state level.
Cost of training
Assumptions:
No of DPSU and SPSU members to be trained= 53.
No of days of training = 2 days
No of trainings during the project period = I
Amount per person per day for the training = Rs 1500/-
Total cost based on above assumptions = Rs 1,59,000 (53 x 2 x I x 1500)



DRAFT
Course V: Environmental Impact Assessment for Environmental Consultants
One of the duties of the Environmental Agency will be to compile a list of approved
environmental consultants from which the DPSUs may select experts to conduct EIAs. In
addition to appropriate qualifications and experience, it will be a pre-condition for inclusion
in the approved list that environmental consultants attend a short course on the application of
the ElAs.
The project will support one training for the consultants.
Course content
The course contains an orientation to the basic tenets of Environmental Impact Assessment.
3) The local environmental issues of concern and impact of the sub-project on theme
4) Steps involved in conduction the EIA study
The course shall be tailor-maid district wise to incorporate local environmental issues of
concern.
Total course duration
The course shall be of two-day duration with approximately 20 participants in a single batch.
Location
The course will be conducted at the state level.
Cost of training
Assumptions:
No of consultants to be trained per district = 2.
No of days of training = 2 days
No of trainings during the project period = 1
Amount per person per day for the training = Rs 1000/-
Total cost based on above assumptions = Rs 64,000 (32 x 2 x I x 1000)



FINAL REPORT on PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
For The
Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project
Department of Panchayati Raj and Rural Development
Government of Chhattisgarh, Raipur
November 23, 2002



Consultations were conducted in three phases
Phase I-March 19-20, 2002
*     Intensive workshop with NGOs, MPDPIP, NGOs form CG and others, Govt
officials.
Phase I1-August 25-26, 2002
*     Consultations with Gram Pantheist in Bilaspur with selected villages under DPRP
pilots.
Phase III-November 16-18,2002
*     Hamlet and village consultations in Pendra and Garella blocks of Bilaspur
PHASE I-MARCH 19-20, 2002:
WORKSHOP ON CHHATTISGARH DISTRICT POVERTY REDUCTION
PROGRAMME      (DPRP), 19 - 20TH MARCH        2002, ORGANISED     BY  THE
DEPARTMENT OF PANCHAYAT & RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Representation
The workshop was attended by the Chief guest, Hon. Minister of Panchayat & Rural
Development, Mr. Amitesh Shukla, Hon. Minister of state, Mr. Tuleshwar Singh and
Hon. Minister, S.C.S.T. Commission, Mr. Ramdayal Uike.
The M. P. DPIP team including project co-ordinator, Smt. Gauri Singh, Finance
Controller Mr. Jitendra Singh & PFT,co-ordinator Shri G. S. Tekam.
The participants included members from PRIs, Government Officers, NGO personnel and
people's representatives from various districts.
The CG team included Secretary, Panchayat & Rural Development Mr. M. K. Raut,
Deputy Secretary finance, CEOs of Zila Panchayats and block Panchayats.
Issues of concern
*  Prior efforts in similar programmes: In the inaugural speech, the Secretary,
P&RD said that so far, the programmes implemented previously have had limited
success in reducing poverty because of paucity of funds through DPIP with
assistance from the World Bank an effort has to be made to attack poverty.
*  Hon. Minister of state, P&RD in his speech said that the programme being
implemented for the uplifpment and empowerment of poor tribal should address
the following aspects during the implementation of the programme:
> Transparency in planning and execution
> Ensure people's participation
> Involvement of Panchayati Raj Institutions.



*    The programme coordinator of MP DPIP, Mrs. Gauri Singh gave the guidelines
information on implementation and objectives and approach of the programme. The
project will institutionalize the core values, which are:
Peoples' participation
Empowerment
v Process orientation
V Decentralization
V Learning through experiences
/ Transparency and collaboration/cooperation
About the project approach:
In order to achieve its objectives the project has adopted the following
approach:
> Empower disadvantaged groups by putting funds under their direct control group
bank accounts.
> Ensure that groups, in view of their need, can select and develop Sub-projects by
taking various possibilities into consideration. They will not be restricted to use
project funds for some specific activities only. However, the activities on which funds
are utilized must fulfill the objectives of the project. Community will be free to seek
technical support from government and non-government persons & organizations.
> Support and strengthen groups having common needs and problems.
> To ensure group participation, the decision making process will be closely monitored
and approval to Sub-projects will be given only when decision-making process is
democratic, healthy and participatory in nature.
> To develop participation and feeling of ownership, create credibility and foster a
culture of local financing, cost recovery and user charges by requiring community
cash contributions for Sub-projects and creation of Group and village funds;
> Strengthen local governments at the district and village levels by giving them
responsibility for the budgeting, its disbursement and monitoring of group activities.
> Ensure transparency, widespread information, and communication and learning about
the project and groups' performance, successes and failures through formal and
informal mechanisms created by the project.
Feedback from NGO representatives
Smt. Hemlata Sahu, Mahila Shiksha Kalyan Evam Prashikshan Parishad
* For selection of beneficiaries a baseline study and wealth ranking is being done in
the Gram Sabha. This could be done on the basis of the IDEP implementation
and evaluation parameters, IDEP being mainly based on economic development.
* Participation of women in the project should be ascertained.
* The implementation of the project should be done through public participation.
* The process of approval by the Gram Sabha is important.
* The income generating schemes should be on the basis of the demands of the
people.



Smt. Satya Bhama Awasthi, Vasudha Mahila Manch
* People from similar socio economic situations should be brought together in the
CIG.
* Selection cannot be made on the basis of the BPL list since many a time it does
not cover the people who may be in actual need. A special list of actual people in
need, needs to be made.
* Need to clarify the conditions under which a grant of Rs. 30, 000 is given, and the
5 percent advance is not justified for a poor person. It could be given in the form
of labour, materials etc. that could be used by the beneficiary.
* Apna Kosh needs specific descriptions on how and when it will be utilised.
* It is essential to mention how many minimum or maximum members could form
a group.
* In a tribal area the project must be sensitive to the basic needs and the culture of
the area.
Further clarification is needed on the role of PRIs in the project, the process of
monitoring and evaluation of the same.
It has been seen in all government projects that no social and cultural aspects have
been considered while launching the project, especially for women. These aspects
need to be taken into consideration.
. The out line of the project seems promising but in the later stage much
government interference might discourage the beneficiary. More public
participation and less government interference needs to be ensured.
* Over and above economic planning, planning specially on education, health,
social crime, torture against women and children, clean environments, prohibition
against drugs etc. needs to be looked at along with economic development to
achieve the goal.
Shri Vijay Tiwari, Gram Sewa Sansthan
* Sending a notice to the Sarpanch/Secretary of the Gram Panchayat and displaying
it at public places is an option. But one cannot be sure that everyone will be aware
of it, there fore a communication strategy is a must.
* The process and the means of communication adopted must be in response to the
reality of the area, as this will determine the success or failure of the project.
* The implementers of the project must have a complete understanding of the
project.
* It must be ensured that the implementers carry out the baseline survey and the
consequent categorization and finalization of the beneficiaries.
* It must be ensured that the project process is bottom up i.e. from the beneficiary
to the state level.
* It must be ensured that people from similar economic situations and with similar
interests come together.



* After the groups are formed, they must be adequately trained and empowered,
according to their needs and understanding.
* It is proposed that a separate team for the project is instituted.
20th March 2002
Initial discussion started with "Criteria for selection of Block". Major suggestion
from the participants were as follows:
v Priority to Tribal Blocks.
/ Focus on backward classes and literacy level.
v/ Priority to unreachable forest areas.
V Priority to poor rather than particular caste/class.
In line with the MP DPIP.
/ Develop one model village.
Further four groups were formed among the participants to discuss four major issues for
successful implementation of the programme:
A. TRIBAL STRATEGY:
The group focussed on the relevance of entry-point activities especially for
the tribal dominated areas as:
> Tribals have a rich culture and heritage
> The tribes have different style of working
> The local dialect varies from non - tribal areas
> The tribals have a strong social structure but lack in economic advancement.
The discussions led to the conclusion that there is a need to address the
tribals first but at the same time other poor people should also benefit from the
DPIP programme. Hence each of the CIG members should be made aware of the
programme and related activities so that the group becomes self-sufficient.
B. ROLE OF NGOs:
This group suggested that among the three members of PFT if two are
from G.O. then third one should be NGO personnel.. During the discussion the
following points were highlighted:
> Good NGOs should be given opportunity
> Regular training of the PFT members should be conducted.
> PFT while working at the district level has major responsibility of monitoring.
) Women members from NGO should be given preference



C. GENDER STRATEGY:
The group came out with the following suggestions:
> 80% of the groups (CIG) formed should be of women.
> Priority should be given to the widow, divorcee, dependent, landless, and physically
handicapped persons.
>  While selecting the activities stress should be on women - oriented activities that will
lead to their empowerment.
> There should be no compulsion on women for 10% contribution.
D. COMMUNICATION:
According to this group, the local people should be considered as primary
source and the data needs to be collected through:
> PRA technique
> House to House visit
> Group - meetings of men & women (combined as well as separate)
> Wealth - ranking
> Training of the CIG (common interest group) as well as PFT (project facilitation
team) members along with the people's representatives.
>  Continuous interaction between the PFT & CIG members.
PHASE II-AUGUST 25-26, 2002:
CONSULTATIONS WITH GRAM PANCHAYATS IN BILASPUR WITH SELECTED
VILLAGES UNDER DPRP PILOTS.
Notice and information circulated in villages before the meeting.
All the villages are hereby informed that Chhattisgarh Government has proposed to
launch the DPIP Programme with the help of the World Bank. The main features of this
programme are as under:-
1. This is an effort of the government to reduce the poverty of villages, in
accordance with the needs of the people.
2. The main target group of the project is the poorest of the poor, especially tribal
and women.
3. The main aim of this project is to provide them with opportunities of self-
progress, which will lead to income enhancement and improve their social status.
4. The process employed in this project will include, establishing a dialogue with the
village people, forming groups, enhancing the capacities of and strengthening the
groups, preparation, implementation and evaluation of sub-projects including
budget preparation and allotments. The project will emphasise on learning by
experience.



5. A process of wealth ranking will be followed among the families in the village
and 70% of the poorest families will be selected as beneficiaries. In a
predominantly tribal or schedule caste village, all the families will be selected in
the project.
6. Through the project, every poor family will be entitled to get a maximum of Rs.
30000.
7. Beneficiaries of this project, will form groups of five or more people, and jointly
select the economic activity they want to carry out. The maximum membership of
the group is not restricted.
8. The economic activity/project selected by the group will have to be sanctioned by
the Gram Sabha.
9. Every group will have to contribute 5% of the demanded grant, for their sub-
project.
10. On completion of the sub-project, the group will deposit 10% of the income into
the Apna Kosh account, for use in village development.
11. To ensure transparency in implementation of the group's activities, every group
will maintain a cashbook and a register, and will have to present their expenditure
details to the Gram Sabha from time to time.
August 25th 2002,
Village - Kanchanpur, Block - Kota
People:                       Villagers of Kanchanpur
Government Representatives:   Mr. M.K. Raut, Development Commissioner.
Mr. Anil Rai, CEO Bilaspur
CEO Janpad - Kota
Mr. Ranjan Jha
World Bank Representatives:   Mr. Luis Constantino
Ms. Madhavi Pillai
Ms. Varalakshami
NGO Representatives:          Gram Sewa Sansthan,
Vasudha Mahila Manch,
Mahila Shiksha Kalyan Evam Prashikshan Parishad
Sanket Development Group.
Major issues of concern/ proceedings of the meeting:
After giving a brief introduction to the project, one of the issues that were raised by Mr.
Raut was that of skill development and of realising the skills that already exist with



people. A number of skills were identified by the gram sabha as skills that already exist
amongst people. Some of them were:-
-    Fishery
-    Goatery
-    Forest related skills
-    Poultry
-    Construction of Stop dams
-    Construction of Water pond
-    Construction of roads
A point was, thus, put up by Mr. Raut that those projects should be identified of which
people already have some knowledge and skill. He also added that projects which are
viable in nature should also be given priority. However, the decision related to the project
lies completely with the people and members of the CIG and all sub projects are
approved by the gram sabha.
August 26th 2002,
Village - Harradi, Gram Panchayat - Harratola, Block - Gaurella
Representations of various groups
People:                        Members of CIGs form pilot villages and members
form other villages of Gaurella
Government Representatives:    PRI Representatives,
Janpad Panchayat members,
Mr. Anil Rai, CEO Bilaspur
World Bank Representatives:    Mr. Luis Constantino
Ms. Madhavi Pillai
NGO Representatives:           Sanket Development Group.
Major issues of concern/ Proceedings of the meeting:
* People from 11 villages had gathered to welcome the World Bank team. Out of these
11 villages, only 3 come under the pilot project.
. 54 CIGs had already been formed in the gram panchayat and 31 had already opened
their accounts. Some of the groups have already deposited the whole of 5 % that they are
supposed to contribute towards the sub project.
* Some people had taken loans on interest from other villagers for depositing this
amount. They were advised by Mr. Rai, CEO Zila Panchayat to return the money to their
creditors as soon as possible and to deposit money only when they have their own.
. There was a lot of anxiety amongst people regarding when the project is going to start.
Mr. Rai advised people that they should be patient as the project may take 4-5 month in
reaching the implementation period.



* Most of the groups had taken up Animal husbandry esp. goatery as their project
activity. Some other sub projects that the CIGs had decided were brick kiln, vegetable
shop, kirana / ration shop, poultry, thread making, auto rickshaw, tube wells, Sangeet
Mahavidyalaya, etc.
* Some people also expressed desire to get the money on an individual basis. They were
advised by Mr. Anil Rai that they can take money under some other scheme.
. Mr. Rai also gave information regarding how the common land can be used for growing
fodder in case many groups are taking up activities such as goatery, dairy, etc.



PHASE III-NOVEMBER 16-18, 2002
HAMLET AND VILLAGE CONSULTATIONS IN PENDRA (Villages Jumdi Khurd,
Amadand, Navagaon and Jhabar) AND GAURELLA BLOCKS (Village
Andhiyaar Kho), BILASPUR
No. of villages covered 5 (Jumdi Khurd, Amadand, Navagaon, Jhabar, Andhiyaar
Kho)
16th November, 2002
Meeting at Semraha, Andhiyaar Kho Panchayat, Gaurella Block.
People:                  30-40 men and women of the Baiga community, dominant
in the pada, and some men from the Rathaur community.
Govt. Functionaries:     Accountant from Janpad Panchayat, Gaurella.
Facilitators:            Sanket Development Group
No major issues of concern were raised the people felt that they needed time to
understand the programme and give their feedback at the consultation meeting scheduled
on 18th November 2002.The facilitators informed them that in case they had any issues of
concern they must raise them in the meeting.
Semaraha being a pada far from the main centre of the Gram Panchayat, Andhyar Kho,
there was some cynicism about whether the scheme would percolate down to all these
scattered hamlets, which are independent by virtue of the different communities living
there.
17th November, 2002
Meeting at para of Jumdi Khurd, Lata Panchayat, Pendra.
People:                  10 men of the Oraon tribe, which is the dominant group in
the said pada.
Govt. Functionaries:     Mr. Thakur Singh, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Mr. Dau, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Dr. Vishwakarma, PFT member, DPIP-MP, Rewa District.
Facilitators:            Sanket Development Group
Major issues of concern raised by the people
Different livelihood options (subprojects), which can be undertaken under the DPRP,
were discussed in terms of their possibility and viability:



*     Improvement in their current agricultural activities - the group felt that help from
DPRP could be put effectively to improve their current agricultural activities. These
could be related to providing infrastructure such as irrigation facilities (canals, wells,
pumpsets), and in training the community to enhance present agriculture skills since the
same has been imbibed and not inherited. Upon further inquiry, the members pointed out
that since they do not use 'modem' agriculture practices such as use of fertilisers, this
pointed to the need for agriculture extension in this field.
*     Animal husbandry-most of the Oraons are not experienced in animal husbandry;
it was felt by them that it would be easier to rear small animals like goats, pigs, and
poultry which are easier and less expensive to rear in comparison to stall fed cattle.
According to the group, the forest departments had already indicated that they could
provide land for pastureland development.
*     Oraons, traditionally forest dwellers, are very knowledgeable about local forest
produce and its usage, and use of forest products is an integral part of their daily lives. In
the discussion it was brought out that their knowledge of existence, ability to locate,
identify and collect forest produce and to make it into usable products could be supported
by sensitive marketing support, and this could lead to sustaining their livelihoods. The
Oraons felt that this support is required both for increasing their own procurement
capacities and to market within the existing local markets. -
*     Many of the Oraons today are labourers working in the neighbouring stone cutting
quarries, which provide gitti (gravel) for road construction. The trading of this gitti is
done at different levels, before it reaches the final contractor of the road construction.
There was a discussion in the group on whether a CIG could get involved in this process
of trading, though most were unclear on the marketing channels and abilities needed for
the same.
It is clear from these discussions that the local economy is still largely a fairly closed
economy and its interface with externalities are more in terms of trade and relations of
exchange. The Oraons will require substantial managerial and skill support in organised
livelihoods systems and marketing and financial support to increase their capacities to
eam better from their traditional livelihood sources.
Forming CIGs
*     There was some discussion on the difficulty of coming together and forming a
group due to differences in economic conditions. This could give rise to conflicts, based
on resources contributed by CIG members. An example given by one member of the
community was that on building a common well there could be different individual needs
for water on land holdings, which may create conflict between members.



17th November, 2002
Meeting at pada of Jumdi Khurd, Lata Panchayat, Pendra.
People:           8-10 men and women of the Dhanuar tribe, who reside in the pada.
Govt. Functionaries: Mr. Thakur Singh, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra Mr. Dau, Janpad
Panchayat, Pendra
Dr. Vishwakarma, PFT member, DPIP-MP, Rewa District.
Facilitators:     Sanket Development Group
Note:
The residents of this hamlet have received some information on this programme.
However they are still in the process of understanding this project and hence have not
been able to see themselves as a part of this project. Therefore this meeting was used to
understand the economic situation and livelihood options available to this community in
the light of the project.
Observations based on the discussions held
This is a hamlet of the main village Jumdi Khurd. The total area of the hamlet is about 15
acres including farmlands. It consists of a community of 11 families of the Dhanuhaar
tribe. This tribe was originally a hunting tribe, deriving its name from the 'dhanush' or
bow (made of bamboo) and hence the community's inherent association with Bamboo.
Today the members of the community have shifted to making of bamboo articles,
agricultural labour and procurement and sale of forest produce.
Most of the bamboo work however is restricted in its variety. The articles are made for
sale in the 'haat' or market and in the nearby villages where there is a demand for the
same. When the articles are sold in the village 'haat', the maker often gets a very low
price for them. While both men and women are engaged in the making of the articles, it is
the men who do the marketing and trading. The bamboo used is procured by the maker or
supplied by the buyer.
Labour is another source of livelihood for both men and women. This could be in the
form of agricultural labour, cow herding.
They are also engaged in collecting for'est produce for self-consumption and for sale. This
includes a fruit called 'Bhakranda', a weed called 'Charauta' and leaves of the Sarai tree.
This fetches them a nominal amount. They also have very small 'badis', on which they
grow mostly 'jowar' for self-consumption.
Most of these transactions for labour and goods are made in kind, the return for which is
usually husked rice or poor quality grain.



Issues of concern
*     The community has developed a specific skill related to bamboo work over the
years. Enhancing this skill, formalising procurement systems for raw material and
encouraging further expansion and introduction of variety in this activity will help the
community in developing this activity into a viable livelihood option.
*     The traditional market system of the community is a barter system, and usually
much of the exchange takes place with neighbouring communities who the Dhanuars are
familiar with. As interactions with a larger market economy increase the channels,
expertise awareness and communication systems need to be developed in the community.
*     Most importantly there are very few available resources with this community to
start an enterprise. Existing resources thus need to be understood and tapped to their
fullest potential in order to ensure sustained livelihood options.
17th November, 2002
Meeting at Dongrapara, Village Amadand, Amadand Panchayat, Pendra.
People:           Sarpanch of Amadand and a few villagers belonging to the
Kanwar from Dongrapada
Govt. Functionaries: Mr. Thakur Singh, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra Mr. Dau, Janpad
Panchayat, Pendra
Dr. Vishwakarma, PFT member, DPIP-MP, Rewa District.
Facilitators:     Sanket Development Group
There could not be a full meeting in Amadand since many of the villagers were out on
work and due to a lack of time the team had to go further on to the neighbouring villages.
However discussions with the Sarpanch and villagers revealed that the CIGs had been
formed in the village for the last six months and the people were still waiting for the
initiation of the programme. There is great enthusiasm to start with the same soon.
17'h November, 2002
Meeting at Village Navagaon, Navagaon Panchayat, Pendra.
People:           Embroidery workers of Navagaon belonging to the Muslim
community.
Govt. Functionaries: Mr. Thakur Singh, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra Mr. Dau, Janpad
Panchayat, Pendra
Dr. Vishwakarma, PFT member, DPIP-MP, Rewa District.



Facilitators:      Sanket Development Group
The group present were embroidery workers who have recently become trainers, trained
women in different villages to embroider on intricate designs on silk. This has been
initiated and supported by local leaders and the government to train women to work at
home. The effort however is at its initial phase, the market for the same still needs to be
explored and there is a great degree of talent, skill and quality required for the production
of this embroidered cloth. It definitely came across as an option for those talented in
embroidery, but the certainty of market and sustenance of the same as a livelihood option
seems to be questionable till one sees the project move further.
Though there was less knowledge on the programme itself, experiences showed that the
community present at the meeting seemed enterprising and open to venturing out to
newer options related to livelihoods.
17th November, 2002
Meeting at Harijanpara of Village Jhabar, Lata Panchayat, Pendra.
No. of Villages covered  2
People:                  40-50 men and women of the Chamar community, who
reside in the pada.
Govt. Functionaries:     Mr. Thakur Singh, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Mr. Dau, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Dr. Vishwakarma, PFT member, DPIP-MP, Rewa District.
Facilitators:            Sanket Development Group
Major Issues of concern among men's group in Harijanpara
*     Most of them own little land (less than one acre) and are not able to meet
subsistence needs through farming on the lands - it is not clear whether they own the land
or are sharecroppers.
*     Goat rearing, pisciculture, carpentry and shoe making are the other economic
activities the community is currently involved in. The community discussed the viability
of expanding these activities in terms of skills, market facilities and existing resources.
*     The members also shared the concern that there might be a danger if all the CIGs
take up the same activity. For example if all of them take up carpentry then where would
they market the goods? Hence a variety of activities need to be initiated.
*     Some new options for subprojects, which the CIGs can take up, were suggested.
This included trading in buffalo bulls, activities related to transportation and minor
irrigation work.



Major Issues of concern among the women's group in Harijanpara
*     The women in Harijanpara would prefer to work in a large group of over five
members
*     The main activity pursued by women at present besides agricultural labour was
trading vegetables between markets and households, of which the profits made are
minimal. The women discussed a scope of expanding this activity to a larger trading
activity, exploring better markets where the same could be sold for higher prices. They
also discussed that they could diversify and trade other goods like grain, goats, vessels,
etc.
Observation
*     Processing of leather and using it for shoe making is the traditional skill of the
community. While the older generation is aware of the various processes and techniques
involved, they emphasised that the younger generation has not learnt this skill. This may
be attributed to the social stigma attached to this activity and hence the community
historically. The community has picked up new skills like goat rearing, carpentry, etc and
is willing to enterprise on the same.
17th November, 2002
Meeting at Village Jhabar, Lata Panchayat, Pendra.
People:                  20-25 men of the Gond tribe and Chamar community, who
reside in the village.
Govt. Functionaries:     Mr. Thakur Singh, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Mr. Dau, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Dr. Vishwakarma, PFT member, DPIP-MP, Rewa District.
Facilitators:            Sanket Development Group
Major issues of concern
*     Can the DPRP funds be used as a common fund resource from which individuals
can draw money to start their own enterprises?
*     Another major concern was that the groups have been formed and been involved
in saving activities for the last six months, and have been waiting for the funds to initiate
their sub projects.
*     The money that is given for village development by the CIG should not be
exhausted in one time. What are the ways in which this could be kept alive and floating?
*     Will the number of CIGs remain the same as they are today? There are many
people who have lost faith and disbanded from the CIGs. It was clarified that once a few
CIGs start their work and are successful others would and could also form more CIGs



later. There is scope for linking with financial institutions, which will help in
strengthening and expansion of the CIG and its activities.
*     Has it been successful in other villages?
*     The success of this programme requires the cooperation and the assistance of the
people in the village. Hence, one will need to ensure effective participation and
involvement of the Gram Sabha.
18th November, 2002; DPRP
Semraha pada, Andhiyaar kho , Gram Panchayat Andhiyaar kho
Gaurella block
Representation:
People:                  Semraha is dominantly a Baiga pada, hence mostly
members of the Baiga tribe were present. There were some
individuals from the Rathaur community who comprise a
few households in the pada. Both men and women were
present, with the women comprising about 30% of the total
group present.
There were also some people from the main village of
Andhiyaar Kho present. The Sarpanch of the Panchayat, a
member of the Gond tribe of Andhiyaar Kho was also
present.
Government Functionaries: Mr. Anil Rai, CEO, Zilla Panchayat, Bilaspur
Mr. Paraste, CEO, Janpad Panchayat, Gaurella
Dr. Mishra, CEO, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Mr. Pradhan, ADO, Gaurella
Mr. Khokhar, ADO, Marwahi
Mr. Thakur Singh, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Mr. Dau, Janpad Panchayat, Pendra
Sachiv, Andhiyaar Kho
Representatives of the Dept. of Panchayat
and Rural Department -   Ranjan and Rajat
Representative from
the World Bank:          Mr. Warren Waters
Representatives from Sanket Development Group: Dr. P. Bose. Maheen Mirza, Sayantoni
Datta, Neha Pradhan
The details of the scheme were explained by the government functionaries and then
issues raised by the people were addressed.



Issues and concerns raised:
1.    The absence of a lump sum of money, which is, required as initial contribution of
each member of the CIG.
-This issue was raised by a woman belonging to the Rathaur community first, and then
later by a man from the Rathaur community.
The Government response to the same was that since the project is yet to start, there is
time to save and build the lump sum required for the initial contribution to the CIG. If a
group of very poor men or women do not have this money even then, the village can
decide to loan them the money, which they can pay back within a year or so, when the
sub-project initiated by them brings its returns.
2.    The people of the village have very small land holdings (The largest holding is
that of 8-9 acres) if at all. There are many landless labourers also. What can be done by
them and where?
The Baiga men and women raised the issue.
The Government response to the same was that an enterprise, which can be done on a
small piece of land and once they, start getting their returns, they can take larger pieces of
land on lease.
3.    It is difficult to meet subsistence needs and family members are constantly
engaged in labour in other farms or in government programmes. They get paid in grain
for the same.
This issue was raised by members of the Baiga community.
4.    There is no electricity and this worsens the water problem in the village.
This issue was raised by many members of the group present.
The government response to the same was that to make provisions for electricity is
something which will take a long time. Hence, the people can use alternatives like diesel
pumps to draw water for irrigation. They can come together as CIGs in the village, pool
their resources together and take up minor irrigation projects like lift irrigation to address
the water problem in the village.
5.    Is there a minimum number of CIGs that need to be formed in the selected village
before an interested and ready group can get the money to initiate the sub-project?
This question was raised by the Sarpanch.
The response from the government functionary was that there are no such criteria. A
group of interested 5 people have to come together, make the initial contribution and
prepare a proposal for the sub-project they want to initiate. The money will then be
sanctioned to them. After a period of time, someone from the block or district level will
come and see the sub-project being managed and then more money will be sanctioned.
The Gram Sabha would have to be informed of the sub-project and its management, all
through the process also.
6.    The process of this scheme has to implemented and managed by the people
themselves. The final say will be that of the Gram Sabha and the CIG will have to be
working with the Panchayat. The returns will also have to be managed so that they raise
the income of the CIG members as well as feed back into the sub-project initiated.
This point was made by the government functionary.
Some people responded by saying that they will be able to manage the sub-project.



7.    Livelihood options like rearing goats or pigs, minor irrigation programmes like
digging of wells, procurement of pumps, and construction of tanks (which can be used for
pisciculture also) were demanded and suggested by the people.
These demands and suggestions were made by the people.
The government response to the same was that such projects could be taken up by the
members of the CIGs by pooling in their resources and using the project money. Some
details of these livelihoods were discussed.
8.    Proforma currently being used for collection of baseline data (see annexure) was
explained to Mr.Warren. All the data collected by the PFTs during this exercise will be
analysed at district and state level. This data will help in framing, monitoring and
learning indicators.



