25231
THEWORLD BANK GROUP
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/13/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: INDIA                                  Project ID: P076467
Project: Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project  Task Team Leader: Luis F. Constantino
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 9, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 27, 2003                   IDA Amount ($m): 110.00
Managing Unit: SASRD                            Sector: General agriculture; fishing and forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  sector (50%); Sub-national government
Status: Lending                     .           administration (30%); Other social services (20%)
Theme: Other social development (P); Poverty
strategy; analysis and monitoring (P); Other rural
development (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project's development objective is to improve opportunities for the poor and vulnerable, especially
women and tribals, to meet their own social and economic development objectives. To achieve this
objective the project would: (i) create infrastructure and income opportunities for the rural poor; (ii)
empower active groups of disadvantaged people; and (iii) support village governments in becoming more
responsive and effective in assisting them.
The project builds on the lessons from the three DPIPs under implementation in India (MP DPIP, AP
DPIP, and Rajasthan DPIP). Chhattisgarh was created as a state on November 1, 2000, and was
previously part of Madhya Pradesh (MP), sharing with MP a similar legal, policy and institutional
framework. Therefore many aspects of the design of MP DPIP are immediately relevant for Chhattisgarh.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
(1) Village Investments: (a) matching grants for community investments; (b) matching grants for
Panchayat plans, (c) village fund (Gram Kosh); and (d) innovations fund
(2) Institutional and Human Capacity Building: (a) human resource development; (b) strengthening of
Panchayats
(c) formation and strengthening of organizations; (d) communications and information; (e) monitoring,
learning and special studies; and (f) project administration



2
ISDS
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project would extend to all 16 districts of Chhattisgarh. Subproject screening and
mitigation guidelines included in the Environmental Management Framework are designed to identify
any subprojects affecting sensitive ecosystems, and to ensure that no subprojects are undertaken unless
measures have been adequately designed to mitigate any negative impacts. No project activities will be
permitted within National Parks.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The proposed project will support multiple small investments which can only be defined in
detail during project implementation. The potential adverse environmental impacts of these subprojects are
site-specific, reversible, and can be mitigated through application of the Environmental Management
Framework.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                              O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               C Yes * No
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                               O Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No large scale, significant or irreversible impacts are expected.
Environmental Screening: All subprojects will be subject to a process of environmental screening which
will ensure that no activities are undertaken that require the use of hazardous pesticides, entail the
construction or rehabilitation of dams more than ten meters in height, occur within National Parks, or
adversely affect cultural property. The screening process will also identify those activities for which
standard measures to mitigate minor, local environmental risks should be adopted, and those for which a
more detailed, site-specific assessment is required.
Land Acqusition: The experience from other DPIP projects has shown that land for community
infrastructure has been voluntarily donated by either the Gram Panchayat or even individuals, evidenced
in the agreements signed with the Common Interest Group. The voluntariness of land contributions will



3
ISDS
be documented based on criteria of (i) open and transparent consultations and decision-making; (ii) the
possibility for people to say "no"; and (iii) that there is no coercion of poor or vulnerable groups. Any
Sub-projects where Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) is required would be disallowed.
Scheduled Tribes: About 32.5% of Chhattisgarh population are tribal people, with large variations
between districts, from about 79% in Dantewara to 12% in Durg. Because tribals are among the poorest
people in Chhattisgarh they would be one of the main beneficiaries of the project. The project is
intended for their own development with all choices of whether or not to participate in the project, the
selection of groups, the choice of activities, the management of funds and the implementation of the
project to be made by them.
The project would cover both Tribal Sub-Plan (Scheduled areas or tehsils in which the tribal population
exceeds 50 percent), and non-tribal areas. Tribal Sub-Plan areas are covered by a special Act of the
Government of India - the Provisions for Extension to Scheduled Areas Act, which defines special rules
for local governments in these areas to ensure that they are constituted by elected representatives from
tribal groups and giving these tribal governments special powers relative to local governments in
non-tribal areas. In these areas the project would not only improve the well being of the majority tribal
population and vulnerable non-tribal groups, but would also make assistance available to improve the
capacity of these tribal governments. Many tribal people also live in non-tribal areas. In these areas the
project would specially target tribal people through targeted communication and information campaigns,
by giving them priority as for other disadvantaged groups for group formation and access to resources,
and by monitoring performance. This approach is described in the project's Tribal Development
Strategy.
II.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Although the project will support multiple small investments, cumulative impacts attributable to the
project will be difficult to distinguish from the effects of other unrelated local development activities. To
ensure that sub-project selection and design takes into account local environmental conditions, the
Environment Agency to be appointed under the project will track cumulative impacts and environmental
concerns, and will refine and update sub-project screening and mitigation guidelines based on
implementation experience.
Two areas in which specific attention will be given to potential cumulative impacts are groundwater
depletion and grazing. Subproject guidelines will ensure that (i) no activities leading to increased
groundwater abstraction in "dark" zones in which the aquifer has been found to be over-exploited by the
Groundwater Development Board, and (ii) the design and appraisal of animal husbandry subprojects
provides for legal and sustainable access to sufficient grazing and fodder for the projected size of herd.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
No long term impacts are expected.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The community-driven development approach will ensure that alternatives will be considered as part of
the process of sub-project selection and design. Procedures for documenting alternatives are specified in
the Environmental Management Framework.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Policy                          Compliance Measures and Comments



4
ISDS
Environmental Assessment         Based on the Environmental Management Framework, CIG subprojects
(OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)      will be screened to determine an appropriate level of environmental
assessment. Screening includes verification against a negative list
designed to ensure compliance with all safeguard policies, and a
determination of the extent of environmental assessment required.
Following environmental review or assessment, measures to control
environmental risks and enhance benefits are built into subproject design.
The Environmental Management Framework also provides for training in
its application to be given to State, District and community-level project
staff, and for the Environment Agency contracted under the Project to
supervise the implementation and continuing refinement of the
Framework.
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)   A Tribal Development Strategy has been prepared as an
integral part of the Project in accordance with the OD 4.20
on Indigenous People. The tribal strategy covers two
aspects: (lnstitutional, relating to participation,
representation, decision-making and resource allocation to
tribal development; and 3Ijacity building The
activities identified include:
* As part of baseline studies in villages, identify key
indicators for participation and performance (These may
be different for different areas and groups).
* Annual review of performance and participation of
CIGs and PFT staff.
* Organise cross visits between CIGs within a regional
cluster.
* Biannual staff meeting to review progress and
exchange experience
* Annual tribal CIG representative meeting in each
district to review draft report monitoring results and
identify obstacles to tribal participation.
* Annual Progress Report on impact on tribals with
comparative expenditures by district and block.
* Training and Capacity building of CIGs and PFTs.
Involuntary Resettlement (OP     The project does not envisage any involuntary resettlement. Lan
4.12)                            requirements under the project would be from CIG's own land, Cl(
purchase or leases, or voluntary donations. Construction of communit
infrastructure is to be met from voluntary donations and documented b
agreements signed with the owners. Any Sub-projects wherein Involuntar
Resettlement (OP 4.12) is likely to be required would be disallowed.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
To date, the project has displayed translated summary versions of the tribal strategy at 16 district
offices (zila panchayats),12 blocks (janpad panchayats) and all the pilot grampanchayats of
DPRP. Consultations were held during project preparation with a broad cross-section of communities



5
ISDS
including women, tribals, elected representatives, a number of NGOs operating in the state, Government
officials including line agencies, academics and independent researchers. The draft Tribal Development
Strategy (TDS) emerged out of State level consultations held in Raipur March 19-20, 2002, and was
refined after consultations held in nine villages in the pilot District of Bilaspur (two villages between
Aug. 25-26 and seven between Nov. 16-18, 2002). A summary of the draft TDS was translated into the
local language and communicated to the Zilla Panchayat. The summary was also communicated among
the key tribal stakeholders, NGOs, officials and non-officials to facilitate fruitful discussions during
consultation process. Notifications were also issued inviting the views and suggestions of NGOs for
making suggestions for modifications in TDS. During appraisal, the team will assess the extent of
participation of scheduled tribes in the planning process and the feasibility and sustainability of
specific measures planned to ensure that the project takes into account their social organization,
religious beliefs and resource use.
E. Safeguards Classifcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI.-Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
. technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual'
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              10/7/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          11/21/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                          Not Available
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              10/7/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          11/21/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Available
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual



6
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Luis F. Constantino
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Warren Waters/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Paul Jonathan Martin/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                         December 13, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Constance A. Bernard                         December 2, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
,SEARCH         FEEDwAC  _Wu_iAp         -   5   CASE



