Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3749 IN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and  
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 18, 2003 
 
Page  2
-
-
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3749 IN 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 18, 2003, between INDIA, acting by its President 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association); 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the State of Chhattisgarh (Chhattisgarh) 
with the Borrower’s assistance, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Chhattisgarh the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Chhattisgarh (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary Institutions” means the Common Interest Groups and the 
Gram Panchayats (as each is hereinafter defined), and the term “Beneficiary Institution” 
means any of those institutions; 
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in 
 
paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
-
2
(c) 
“Common Interest Groups” (CIGs) means a group of economically 
disadvantaged individuals in Chhattisgarh who agree to organize themselves as a group 
for common socio-economic and productive activities; 
 
(d) 
“Chhattisgarh” means the Borrower’s state of Chhattisgarh, or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7)
 
set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the framework 
described in the Environmental Assessment Report prepared by Chhattisgarh, dated 
January 27, 2003, setting out measures to mitigate the Project’s possible adverse impact 
on the environment, and including process guidelines for the management of 
environmental aspects under the Project and which include mitigation measures as may 
be required;  
 
(h) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower and Chhattisgarh’s fiscal year, 
beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each Financial Monitoring Report 
prepared by Chhattisgarh in accordance with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Gram Panchayats” means local self government bodies established 
under the Chhattisgarh Panchayati Raj Act, 1993; 
 
(k) 
“Line Departments” means the departments of the Government of 
Chhattisgarh;  
 
(l) 
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations established and 
operating in the territory of the Borrower; 
 (m) 
“Operation
s
Manual” means the Operations Manual prepared by 
Chhattisgarh and furnished to the Association on January 22, 2003, as may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Association and Chhattisgarh, outlining, 
inter alia
,
community level institutional arrangements, procedures and criteria for 
selection, appraisal and implementation of Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined); 
Page  5
-
-
3
(n) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Chhattisgarh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the implementation plan prepared 
by Chhattisgarh for the Project and furnished to the Association on January 22, 2003, 
including time-bound action plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the Association; 
 
(p) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(q)  
“Self help groups” means Common Interest Groups which in lieu of, or 
in addition to, carrying out Sub-projects, engage in thrift and credit activities or other 
common activities; 
 
(r) 
“SPU” means the State Project Unit established for monitoring and 
assisting in carrying out the Project; 
 
(s) 
“State Finance Commission” means the commission constituted by 
Chhattisgarh to, 
inter alia
,
review and advise on the matter of devolution of funds to 
Gram Panchayats and Zilla Panchayat (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(t) 
“Sub-Project” means a specific project under Part B of the Project which 
meets the criteria set forth in the Operations Manual and the Project Implementation 
Plan; 
 
(u) 
“Sub-Project Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between Zilla Panchayat of the District and a Beneficiary Institution for carrying out a 
Sub-Project;  
 
(v) 
“Tribal Development Strategy” means the Strategy dated 
 
January 13, 2003 prepared by Chattisgarh in consultation with the local communities in 
the Project area to ensure that the tribal population in Chhattisgarh benefit from the 
activities implemented under the Project and furnished to the Association;  
 
(w)  
“Village Fund” means a fund held by the appropriate Gram Panchayat 
and made up from cash contributions made by Common Interest Groups being at a rate 
set forth in the Operational Manual; and  
 
(x) 
“Zilla Panchayat” means a District level self government body as 
established under the Panchayati Raj Act of 1993. 
 
Page  6
-
-
4
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 82,200,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate 
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Page  7
-
-
5
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
April 15, and October 15, commencing October 15, 2013
 
and ending April 15, 2038.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2023 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:  
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of  
five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Page  8
-
-
6
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall cause Chhattisgarh to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of Chhattisgarh as therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Chhattisgarh to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to 
Chhattisgarh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for 
developmental assistance to the States of India. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations  
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be 
carried out by Chhattisgarh pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of 
Statements of Expenditures, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
Page  9
-
-
7
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures be retained 
until at least one (1) year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal 
Year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Statements of Expenditure or the reports referred to in Part A.5 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Chhattisgarh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Page  10
-
-
8
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Chhattisgarh will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Chhattisgarh and is legally binding upon Chhattisgarh in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  11
-
-
9
For the Borrower: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
New Delhi, PIN 110001 
 
India 
 
Cable address:  
Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 953-3166175 
 
011-23017511 
 
New Delhi 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INDEVAS   
248423 (MCI) 
 
(202) 522-1709 
 
Washington, D.C.              
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ B.P. Misra 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Michael Carter 
 
 
Country Director, India 
Page  12
-
-
10 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the     
 
Credit Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Part B of the Project 
 
(a)  Sub-projects under 
 
 68,100,000 
 
95%    
 
Part B (1) of the Project 
 
(b)  Sub-projects under  
       
 
700,000 
95%   
 
Part B (2) of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods, including equipment, 
   
 
1,500,000 
 
 
  100% of  foreign 
materials and vehicles (excluding    
 
 
 
  expenditures, 100% of  
Part B of the Project) 
 
 
 
 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80% 
of local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
NGOs’services and CBO  
      
 
800,000 
100% 
 education/research 
institutions 
 consultancies 
 
(4) 
Training, work-shops  
 
5,800,000  
 
100% 
 
and study tours 
 
(5) 
Other Consultancies                    
    
 
 
600,000 
80% 
 
(6) 
Civil Works (excluding              
 
600,000 
80%   
 
Part B of the Project) 
 
 
Page  13
-
-
11 
 
Amount of the     
 
Credit Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR equivalent
)
to be Financed
(7) 
Incremental operating costs 
4,000,000   
 
80% until September 
30, 2004; costs
 60% 
from 
October 1, 2004 until 
September 30, 2006; 
and 40% thereafter 
 
(8) 
Unallocated 
     
100,000               
 
TOTAL
 
82,200,000 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) the 
t
erm “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the costs of operation and 
maintenance of equipment and vehicles, office rental and expenses, hiring of vehicles, 
salaries of additional staff and travel and other allowances of all project staff, incurred for 
the purposes of carrying out the Project; and 
 
(d)  the term “NGO services and CBO education/research institutions 
consultancies” means services to be provided by CBOs/NGOs and education/research 
institutions which are tax exempt under the Project.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
,
except 
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date and 
after July 1, 2002; and  
 
Page  14
-
-
12 
 
(b) 
in respect of a Sub-project unless the Sub-project has been prepared in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and 
Environmental Management Framework and a Sub-project Agreement, 
satisfactory in substance to the Association, between the relevant parties 
has been entered into for the carrying out of such Sub-project. 
 
.
4. 
The Association may require withdrawal from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for: (i) Sub-projects under Part B 
of the Project; (ii) goods not exceeding $250,000 equivalent; (iii) civil works not 
exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (iv) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 for employment of individual 
consultants, respectively; (v) training, workshops and study tours; and (vi) incremental 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
.
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other 
information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit, or 
shall cause Chhattisgarh to submit, to the Association only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Financial 
Monitoring Report referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this  
Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Financial Monitoring Report 
pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports, all further 
Page  15
-
-
13 
 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this  
Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
Page  16
-
-
14 
 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Page  17
-
-
15 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Report Based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount of $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount of $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed 
SDR 25,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
Page  18
-
-
16 
 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
Page  19
-
-
17 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on Report-Based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Assciation pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
Page  20
-
-
18 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Chhattisgarh in improving opportunities 
for the poor and the economically vulnerable in the State, specially women and tribal 
people, to meet their own social and economic development objectives through: (i) 
establishing/ strengthening Beneficiary Institutions that empower poor rural people; (ii) 
building capacity of Beneficiary Institutions; and (iii) supporting investments in small 
Sub-projects proposed by the poor to accelerate entry and expand involvement of the 
poor in social and economic activities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:  
 
Part A:
Institutional and Human Capacity Building
1.  Formation and strengthening of Common Interest Groups, including Self-help 
groups, and their support organizations, and provision of consultants’ 
services, including NGOs’ services, training and the carrying out of start-up 
activities related thereto. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of information campaigns on socio-economic issues relevant to the 
rural poor. 
 
3.  Building capacity of Common Interest Groups and Gram Panchayats for 
planning, financial management and implementation of the Sub-projects and 
other matters related to village development through the provision of 
consultants’ services, including NGOs' services, training, works and 
equipment, and the carrying out of works. 
 
4. 
Reorientation/training of the staff of Line Departments seconded to the Project, 
financial institutions and Zilla Panchayats to the needs of the rural poor, 
including technical support for implementation of the Sub-projects through 
provision of consultants’ services, NGOs’ services and training. 
 
5.  Strengthening of SPU, Gram Panchayats, carrying out of civil works for 
panchayat bhawans and Zilla Panchayats, and provision of office equipment, 
vehicles, consultants’ services and incremental operating costs. 
 
6. Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities in respect of the 
implementation of the Project, including baseline surveys and impact 
assessments, and developing learning systems for the Project. 
Page  21
-
-
19 
 
7.  Supporting the State Finance Commission activities related to formulation of 
principles for devolution of funds to Gram Panchayats and Zilla Panchayat 
through training, seminars, workshops and provision of consultants’ services. 
 
Part B:
Community Investments
1. 
Carrying out of the Sub-projects by Beneficiary Institutions covering activities in 
the social, economic and infrastructure areas including: (i) group based 
income generating activities; (ii) infrastructure investments; and (iii) skills 
and organization. 
 
2.  Carrying out of small Sub-projects to demonstrate new techniques and options 
for livelihood  improvement. 
 
3.  Setting up Village Funds funded by community cash contributions to finance 
operation and maintenance and other village development needs. 
 
********* 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008.
 
