Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3749 IN 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Chhattisgarh District Rural Poverty Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
and 
 
STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 
 
Dated August 18, 2003 
 
Page  2
-
1
-
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3749 IN  
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 18, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), and STATE OF 
CHHATTISGARH
,
acting by its Governor (Chhattisgarh). 
 
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 82,200,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Chhattisgarh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in this Agreement; 
 
WHEREAS Chhattisgarh, in consid
eration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Chhattisgarh declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through SPU with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Chhattisgarh shall carry out the 
Page  4
-
2
-
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) Chhattisgarh shall carry out the obligations set forth in  
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitations thereto, Chhattisgarh shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Chhattisgarh, a plan satisfactory to the Association 
for the future operation of the Project. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) Chhattisgarh shall, at the request of the Association exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit. 
 
(b) 
Chhattisgarh shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Chhattisgarh of 
their obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Chhattisgarh shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format acceptable 
to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial management 
and accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project. 
 (b) 
Chhattisgarh 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association and as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such fiscal year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association and such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, and concerning such auditors, as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation on the reporting obligations under 
 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, Chhattisgarh shall prepare and furnish to the Association 
separate financial monitoring reports, (each such a Financial Monitoring Report) in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds;  
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and  
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association no later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and 
Chhattisgarh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify Chhattisgarh of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or fax 
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
 party’s 
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated 
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
522-1709 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)  
Page  7
-
5
-
For Chhattisgarh: 
 
Chief Secretary 
 
Government of Chhattisgarh 
 
Raipur 
 
Chhattisgarh, India 
 
Facsimile: 
 
222-1207 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Chhattisgarh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Chhattisgarh shall designate in writing, and Chhattisgarh shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Michael Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 
 
By /s/ M.K. Raut 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods (other than for Part B of the Project) estimated to cost above 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
 
$510,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
national competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
Works (other than for Part B of the Project) estimated to cost $30,000 
equivalent or more per contract, and costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  
$1,060,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
national competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
2. National 
Shopping
(a) 
Equipment and materials, excluding vehicles (other than for Part B of the 
Project) estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of up to $100,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
(a) 
Goods which are proprietary in nature, (other than for Part B of the 
Project) estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 per contract up to an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; and  
Page  9
-
7
-
(b) 
Miscellaneous items (other than for Part B of the Project) estimated to 
cost less than $500 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding  
$100,000 equivalent may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Works and Goods for Part B of the Project
Works and goods for sub-projects under Part B of the Project estimated to cost up 
to an aggregate amount not exceeding $99,300,000 equivalent, may be procured as 
follows: 
 
(a)  
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured either:  
 
(i)  
under lump sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, 
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers 
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully;  
 
(ii) 
 
through direct contracting with NGOs or community 
organizations, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines; 
 
(iii)  
through community participation procedures in accordance with 
paragraph 3.15 (iii) of the Guidelines; or 
 
(iv)  
as a last resort, and with prior approval of the Association, 
through force account in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.  
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.5 of the guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts by the Beneficiary Institutions, 
first two contracts for goods and the first two contracts for works, all estimated to cost 
less than $250,000 but more than $50,000 the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, Chhattisgarh
 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any such contract, Chhattisgarh shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c)  
with respect to the first two Sub-project contracts by the Beneficiary 
Institutions the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Bank 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Page  11
-
9
-
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under the 
Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Page  12
-
10
-
Association for their review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultan
ts’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review 
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but 
less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience and the terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1. 
Chhattisgarh shall not later than January 31
 
of
each year, starting 2004, prepare 
annual action and procurement plans for implementation of the Project activities, and 
taking into account the Association’s recommendations, finalize, not later than March 15
 
of each year, such plans. 
2. 
Chhattisgarh shall maintain the SPU with the staffing and responsibilities agreed 
with the Association. 
3. 
Chhattisgarh shall cause the Beneficiary Institutions to select and appraise the 
Sub-Projects under Part B of the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedure 
specified in the Operations Manual. 
4. 
Sub-Projects shall be carried out on the basis of a Sub-Project Agreement to be 
entered into between Zilla Panchayats with the respective Beneficiary Institution, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Such agreements shall, 
inter alia
,
specify the type of Sub-Project as described in Part B of the Project, describe the works 
and goods to be financed, and the cash or kind contribution of the Sub-Project 
beneficiaries, all in accordance with the criteria and procedure specified in the Operations 
Manual. 
5. 
Chhattisgarh shall carry out the Project in accordance with the agreed 
Environmental Management Framework and ensure that the environmental and social 
screening criteria are updated regularly throughout implementation of the Project and are 
at all times consistently and satisfactorily applied. 
6. 
To ensure that the tribal population in the State benefit fully from the activities 
under the Project, Chhattisgarh shall implement, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, the Tribal Development Strategy. 
7. 
Chhattisgarh shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project 
in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Association. 
8. Chhattisgarh 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than September 30, 2005, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
Page  14
-
12
-
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association by December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter. 
9. 
Chhattisgarh shall:  
 
(a) 
ensure that any private
 
land needed for any work under the Project shall 
be provided by the owner of such land in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with a 
memorandum of understanding, acceptable to the Association, between the Beneficiary 
Institution and the owner of such land;  
 
(b)  
not commence any work in locations where private land is needed until 
such memorandum of understanding has been concluded; and
 
(c) 
to the extent practicable, ensure that any land to be made available by the 
owner shall be free from any encumbrances and encroachment, and that no involuntary 
resettlement arises from any use of such land under Part B of the Project. 
10. 
Chhattisgarh shall, for the purpose of implementing the Environmental 
Management Framework, retain consultants with terms of references satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
