RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                   Report No. P-819
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THIRD LOAN TO
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
STATE OF ISRAEL
May 12, 1970



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AID DEVELOPYINT
REPORT AND RECOMbJDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED THIRD LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANKX OF ISRAEL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE STATE OF ISRAEL
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$25
million to the Industrial Development Bank of Israel Limited (IDBI).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      IDBI was established in 1957 on the joint initiative of the
Government of Israel, the three largest commercial banks in Israel,
the Histadrut (General Federation of Labor) and the Manufacturers'
Association. It was a well-established institution when it approached
the Bank for the first time in 1964. The Bank has so far made two
loans to IDBI: one in 1965 for $15 million and one in 1967 for $20
million. The second loan was fully committed by January 31, 1970.
Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington in
April 1970. The Israeli Delegation consisted of Dr. A. Neaman,
Managing Director, IDBI, Dr. Zussmann, representative of the Bank
of Israel, and Mr. Meirav, Economic Counselor of the Embassy of
Israel.
3.      The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Israel
as of April 30, 1970:



-2-
Loan                                                    Amount (US$ million)
-umber   Year     Borrower        Purpose               Bank   Undisbursed
265     1960   State of Israel   Port of Ashdod        27.4      -
289     1961   Dead Sea Works    Potash Plant          25.0      -
Limited
323     1962   State of Israel   Roads                 22.0      -
424     1965   Industrial Devel- Development           20.0      -
opment Bank of Finance
Israel
519     1967   Industrial Devel- Development           15.0     5.2
opment Bank of Finance
Israel
Total (less cancellations)                             109.4
of which has been repaid to Bank and others           18.4
Total now outstanding                                   91.0
Amount sold                       5.1
of which has been repaid        5.1
Total now held by Bank                                  91.0     5.2
There have been no major problems in the disbursement of
previous loans. Currently, there are two additional loans, one for
Agriculture and one for Highways, under consideration.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
4. Borrower:         Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Limited
Guarantor:       State of Israel
Purpose:         To assist the Borrower in financing the foreign
exchange costs of investments by productive o't&itrises
Amount:          The equivalent of $25 million in various currencies



Amortization:          The initial amortization schedule provides for 15
years, including a two-year perioe of grace, through
semi-annual installments beginning June 15, 1972
and ending December 15, 1984. It will be amended
from time to time to conform substantially to the
aggregate schedules of sub-loans and investments
financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan.
Interest Rate:         7 per cent per annum
Commitment Charge:     3/4 of 1 per cent per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
5.        An Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Israel, Ltd." (DB-62a) on the proposed project is attached.
6.        IDBI is the largest institution in Israel providing medium-
and long-term credit for industrial development. Its assets amount to
about 80 per cent of the assets of all the investment banks operating in
the inidustrial field. IDBI's financing has represented, on the average,
about one-fourth of gross annual investment in industry. IDBI administers
certain government funds for development loans to government-controlled
enterprises, and also administers local currency loans made available by
the U.S. Agency for International Development to Israeli industrial enter-
prises. It closely cooperates with the Government in implementing indust-
rial development programs and plays a key role in financing the Israeli
private industrial sector.
7.        IDBIts main function is the provision of medium- and long-term
loans to private industrial enterprises in Israel. It is also empowered
by its Articles of Association to undertake a variety of other functions
including participation in share capital of enterprises, underwriting
and promoting security issues, guaranteeing obligations and providing
managerial, financial and technical assistance to industries. In fact,
IDBI has concerned itself almost exclusively with lending and has only
made a few equity investments. From its inception to December 31, 1969,
IDBI has approved 2,568 operations for a cumulative total of If 1.39 billion.
As of December 31, 1969, the loan portfolio amounted to IZ 901 million,
of which I£ 106.5 million, about 12 per cent, is guaranteed as to repayment
by the Government. As of the same date, IDBIIs investment in shares amounted
to I£ 33.7 million or 3.5 per cent of its total portfolio.
8.        Of the presently authorized share capital of I£ 417 million,
only Ordinary A shares, of which If 15.1 million had been issued and
subscribed as of December 31, 1969, carry full voting rights. The
Ordinary A shares are widely distributed among the Government, private
domestic, and foreign investors; the Government holds 26 per cent, private



- 4 -
domestic investors 55 per cent, and foreign investors 19 per cent. The
proportion of the Government's shareholding gives it, under Israeli company
law, veto power in regard to changes in IDBI's charter.
9.        Other than the Ordinary A shares mentioned above, there are
eight classes of ordinary or preference shares in issue, totalling about
1E 364 million, as of December 31, 1969.  Of these shares, the Government
holds about 52 per cent, foreign investors 28 per cent, private domestic
investors 4 per cent, and entities owned jointly by foreign and domestic
investors, 16 per cent. The variety of shares issued is intended to appeal
to as wide a range of investors as possible.
10.       IDBI now has a sizeable backlog of projects awaiting approval
and has projected loan commitments of $136 million for the two years
beginning July 1970. About $66 million would be required in foreign
exchange. Of this, identified sources would provide $23 million, leaving
an uncovered balance of $43 million. The Bank loan of $25 million would
contribute to closing this gap.
11.       The previous loan was fully committed by January 31, 1970.   To
provide continuity of Bank financing, it is proposed (see Section 2.03(c)
of the draft loan agreement), to authorize withdrawals for expenditures
made prior to the date of the loan agreement, but not earlier than February
1, 1970. It is estimated that the amount of this retroactive financing
would be about $1.5 million.
12.       Because of the relatively high level of technology in Israel,
a part of the equipment requirements of investment enterprises can be met
from goods manufactured in Israel from imported raw materials and components.
Anoth,r part can be met from off-the-shelf purchases of imported goods.
It is proposed that the foreign exchange component of such goods be financed
out of the loan, and for the sake of administrative convenience, it is
intended to use as the measure of the foreign exchange component, 20 per
cent of the cost of goods produced in Israel and 50 per cent of the cost
of goods produced outside Israel and purchased from local suppliers.
13.       lo debt limit was set in previous Bank loan agreements with
IDBI. Because an agreement between AID and IDBI, which included such a
limit, is due to expire in 1972, it is proposed that a maximum ratio of
debt to share capital and surplus of 3:1 be included in the proposed loan
agreement. IDBI's present ratio is less than 1:1.
14.       In view of IDBI's good management and standards of project
appraisal, it is proposed that the amount of individual subloans that
can be made out of the Bank loans without the Bank's prior aprroval be
raised from I£ 1.5 million to US$750,000 (equivalent to I£ 2.6 million),
subject to an aggregate limit of 50 per cent of the amount of the proposed
loan.



15.       IDBI makes its loans in Israeli currency.   Any exchange loss
resulting from a change in the exchange rate is to be borne by the State
of Israel.
16.       IDBI is a well-managed development finance company with a
satisfactory operational record and. of sound financial standing. The
financial projections for the next two years are satisfactory and debt
service cover will be adequate throughout the projected life of the
loan.
PART IV - LEGAL DISTRUIEMITS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and IDBI, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the State of Israel and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, and the text of the draft Resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately. The agreements generally follow the pattern of those for the
Bankls recent loans and the security devices are similar to those in the
Loan Agreements for Loan Mo. 424IS and Loan Nlo. 519IS.
PART V - THE ECOIIOMvY
18.       The last Economic Report on Israel was dated July 22, 1969
(EMA-7b). An updating Memorandum on Current Economic Developments in
Israel (No. IIA-18a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March
20, 1970.
19.       After a rapid growth in 1968, output, investment and exports
continued to rise in 1969, although at a slower pace. Total real resources
available to the Israeli economy, which had increased by 18 per cent in
1968, rose again by about 15 per cent in 1969, led by a large expansion
of imports (16 per cent). Gross fixed investment increased its share of
GNP from 20 to about 22 per cent. At the same time, public and private
consumption have increased by about 12 per cent. Defense spending continued
to grow in 1968 and 1969, bringing the total defense burden of the country
to a record level estimated at 20 per cent of GNP, and almost half of total
government spending. 1.ilitary pressures have also resulted in a rise in
foreign payments for defense-related imports; on the other hand, they have
undoubtedly stimulated higher non-commercial capital inflows.
20.       Even though efforts to increase exports and investment have met
with some success, the recent fast growth of internal demand and the mounting
defense expenditures have led to a deterioration of the balance of payments
and a consequent decline in reserves. A number of steps, including restric-
tive budgetary and wage measures and increased export incentives, have recent-
ly been taken to cope with this situation and the authorities have declared
themselves ready to take further measures, should they prove necessary.



- 6 -
21.       In current circumstances, the expansion of exports is of primary
importance. In recognition of this fact, the Government of Israel has pro-
vided various incentives intended to channel industrial investment towards
export-oriented production. While the use of the Bank loan is not speci-
fically restricted to export industries, these incentives will ensure that
a significant portion of the sub-loans go towards the promotion of export
capacity.
22.       Israel's medium and long-term external public debt has risen fast
in recent years, reaching a total of just over $2 billion at the end of 1969.
Interest and amortization payments on public debt grew apace; but as foreign
exchange earnings have risen even faster(in the last five years they increased
at an average rate of 15 per cent), the ratio between service payments and
these earnings has declined from some 20 per cent in the early 1960's to
about 14 per cent in the recent past. For 1970, the service payments are
estimated to reach $182 million, or about 12 per cent of foreign exchange
earnings. Even if Israel continues to borrow abroad on a large scale, the
debt service ratio is unlikely to increase, since foreign exchange earnings
are expected to continue rising rapidly and a large share of the new loans -
privately-sold Development Bonds and bilateral official aid - will be
obtained on concessional terms. Israel is therefore considered creditworthy
for additional borrowing on conventional terms.
PART VI - CODPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - REGO]tELIDATIOi'I
24.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McUlamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.
Miay 13, 1970



