Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15470
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2911-TUN)
MARCH 28, 1996
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tunisian Dinar (DT)
1989                US$ = DT0.95
1990                 US$ = DT 0.88
1991                 US$ = DT 0.92
1992                 US$ = DT 0.88
1993                 US$ = DT 1.00
1994                 US$ = DT 1.01
1995                 US$ = DT 0.95
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
API                         Agence de Promotion de lIndustrie
BCT                         Banque Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank)
BDET                        Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BS                          Banque de Sud
BT                          Banque de Tunisie
BTEI                        Banque de Tunisie et des Emirats d'Investissement
CCD                         Le Centre de Conseil et de Developpement pour les PME (Center for
Advice and Development of SME), within UTICA
EU                          European Union
FOPRODI                     Fonds de Promotion et de Decentralisation Industrielles
(Industry Promotion and Decentralization Fund)
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
PICP                        Private Investment Credit Project
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
STB                         Societe Tunisienne de Banque
SMI                         Small and Medium Industries
SSI                         Small Scale Industries
SSI II                      Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project
UTICA                       Union Tunisienne de lIndustrie, du Commerce, et de l'Artisanat



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .............................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY                          .............................i
Project Objectives .............................i
Implementation Experience and Results ............................. ii
Key Lessons Learned .............................                                                   iv
A. Statement of Objectives .............................I
B. Achievement of Objectives .............................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................5
D. Proiect Sustainabilitv .............................6
E. Bank Performance .............................7
F  Borrower Performance .............................9
G. Assessment of Outcome .............................                                             10
H. Future Operation .............................                                                  10
I. Key Lessons Learned ............................. 10
STATISTICAL TABLES ............................ 12
ANNEX: Implementation Completion Report from Agence de Promotion de / Industrie
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Small and Medium
Scale Industry Development Project (SMI II) to the Republic of Tunisia. The Loan in the amount of US$28
million equivalent was approved by the Board on February 16, 1988 and made effective on February 2,
1989.
The loan closed on its original closing date of June 30, 1995. The final disbursement was
on November 9, 1995, at which time 95% of the Loan had been disbursed. The remaining amount of
US$1.5 million will be canceled once the Bank receives the refund of the outstanding balance in the Special
Account of US$334,401.
T1his ICR was prepared by Laurie Effron of the Private Sector Development, Finance, and
Infrastructure Division, Country Department 1 of the Middle East and North Africa Region and reviewed by
Amir Al-Khafaji, Division Chief, and Rene Costa, Project Advisor in Country Department 1.
Preparation of the ICR is based on material in the project files, interviews with task
managers who appraised and supervised the project, and infornation received from the participating banks
on the sub-loans. A report on the implementation of one of the project's components was received from the
executing agency involved, Agence de Promotion de l'Industrie, and is attached as an Annex. The report
was sent for comment to the Govemnment and the implementing agencies (including the participating banks).
Comments were received from only one of the five participating banks and have been incorporated into the
report, to the extent possible.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)          The Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project (Loan 291 1-TUN),
SMI IL, was approved by the Board on Februaiy 16, 1988. It followed successful operations promoting
small-scale industrial development in the late 1970s and early 1980s (a pilot line of credit under Loans 1504
and 1505-TUN and a first small-scale industry project, Loan 1969-TUN). The SMI II project was prepared,
appraised and presented to the Board while three other lines of credit, more narrowly targeted to specific
industries (electrical, mechanical and export), were underway (Loans 2113, 2522, 2554-TUN), and while
the Industrial Trade and Policy Adjustment Loan (Loan 2781-TUN) was being appraised and implemented.
Project Objectives
(ui)         As presented in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objectives of the project were:
(a) to increase financial resources available to and strengthen the term lending operations of
commercial banks so as to establish medium and long-term instruments for SMI financing;
(b) to finance economically and financially sound and technically feasible projects in the
small and medium scale sector;
(c) to foster a new class of industrial entrepreneurs to provide managers and technicians to
the industrial sector;
(d) to create employment at an investment cost per job lower than the national average in the
industrial sector.
(iii)        To ensure that these objectives were achieved, the Project Agreement specified the
eligibility criteria for sub-projects to be financed under the Loan, including maximum investment, maximun
investment cost per job, and a minimum economic rate of return (no specific financial rate of return was
specified).
(iv)         These objectives were consistent with:  (a) Government policy on promoting smail
enterprises; (b) data that supported the notion that smaller enterprises were associated with lower-cost
employment creation; (c) positive Bank experience in Tunisia with lines of credit; and (d) prevailing wisdom
that targeted lines of credit were an efficient way to achieve a given set of objectives. At the same time,
however, Bank staff identified a major issue of targeting SMI: when access to subsidies depended on
meeting criteria that included ceilings on investment costs, firms had incentives to underestimate their project
costs in order to qualify for the subsidies, resulting in cost over-runs during implementation and over-



ii
indebtedness (para. 3). In addition, the objective of fostering a new class of industrial entrepreneurs was
based on the questionable assumption that employment in a small enterprise constituted sufficient training for
owners, managers and technicians; this is the weakest of the four stated objectives (para 5).
Implementation Experience and Results
(v)           Achievement of results. The objective of channeling incremental financial resources
through commercial banks to SMIs was partly achieved; the other objectives less so or not at all. About
60% of the funds under the Loan were disbursed through commercial banks, and the remaining funds to
firms were disbursed through development banks. In terms of whether the funds went in fact to SMIs,
criteria for maximum investments costs were met at the time of sub-project appraisal, but were sometimes
exceeded by significant amounts (more than 100%) during implementation (para. 6). An important objective
was to strengthen commercial banks' term lending to SMIs: if this is judged by the quality of the portfolio,
and the quality is judged by the incidence of arrears, then for two of the three commercial banks, this
objective was not met. While the portfolio of sub-projects financed under the Loan may not be
representative of the quality of all term lending by these banks (as one of the participating banks has noted),
in two of the three commercial banks concerned, 60% of the sub-loans are in arrears. For the third
commercial bank, only 15% of the sub-loans are in arrears. For all five participating banks, 50% of the sub-
loans are in arrears, 16% under litigation; term lending sfill requires strengthening to improve the quality of
the appraisal and/or supervision (para 7).  One of the participating banks has attributed the poor
performance in part to the fact that about half of the firms financed under the Loan started up operations just
as the impact of the Gulf War hit the Tunisian economy. While this may help explain some of the problems,
all the banks' portfolios did not suffer equally: the clients of the bank with the healthy portfolio also started
up operations at the same time as the clients of the other banks. This calls into question the validity of the
Gulf War explanation (paras 16 and 17).
(vi)          In terms of the viability of the investments financed, partial information from several of the
participating banks indicates that 50% of them suffered significant (at least 35/o) cost over-runs. Given the
available evidence on the incidence of arrears, it is likely that the financial and economic rates of return
expected at appraisal were not realized in a large proportion of the investments (para 8).
(vii)        In terms of employment creation, the Project was expected to result in the creation of about
4,000 jobs, at an average cost of US$17,500 (end-1987 termns). Less than half, or 1,951 jobs, were created,
at an average cost of US$34,500 (current terms, including 6%-8% inflation p.a). The maximum cost of job
to be created, according to the Project Agreement, was DT30,000, increased in 1990 to DT40,000. Several
participating banks ignored the criterion, with no indication that other acceptable criteria had been met, and
some investments were financed under the Loan with average cost of job created of over DT1 00,000. Thus,
the objective was not achieved, in terms of numbers of jobs created or in terms of low cost (para 9).
(viii)        Finally, the technical assistance components to the banks and support institutions (API and
UTlCA) were to contribute to the overall objectives of the Project by strengthening new and existing SMIs to
formulate and carry out investment projects. The API component was identified mainly by inputs, and in a
narrow sense, the implementation of the technical assistance and training to API can be considered
satisfactory. API, however, shifted its role in the course of Project implementation from providing general
technical assistance to SMIs and banks for preparing and appraising projects to serving as a one-stop shop



iii
for potential investors and carrying out enterprise diagnoses on selected enterprises (about 26 during the
years of Project implementation). Because of the lack of output monitoring indicators for APL it is difficult
to assess whether its assistance to SMIs has been effective and contributed to the Project's objectives. With
respect to UTICA, the output was expected assistance to 300 enterprises and financial self-sufficiency for
this assistance from fees. A 1995 report on TIMCA's activities indicate that the targets for assistance and for
financial self-sufficiency from fees were never met and the program of assistance to SMIs was discontinued
in 1994. There is no mention in the files of the implementation of the banks' action plans (paras. 11-15).
(ix)          The Project was implemented essentially as expected in terms of use of the funds by the five
participating banks and the timing of commitments and disbursements. Except for the delay in effectiveness
that affected the first three years, disbursements quickly caught up to and were generally ahead of appraisal
estimates for most of the rest of the implementation period (para. 10).
(x)           Sustainability. Given that the objectives were in general not met, the Project's achievements
are unlikely to be sustainable, except possibly in an indirect sense. If financial resources to SMIs increase
over time in Tunisia in the future (paras. 24-26), and banks increase the quality of such lending, this Project
may have contributed to encouraging banks to address the financing needs of SNIv.
(xi)          Key factors. The uneven quality of the participating banks' appraisal capacities is probably
the most important factor determining the selection of clients and sub-projects to finance; the generally weak
ability to improve recoveries and overall performance of clients is also a contributing factor (paras. 19-22).
Project design helps explain the timely conmmitment and disbursement performance: use of a number of
banks, relatively wide definition of beneficiaries (compared to two previous lines of credit), and loan
conditionality ensuring attractive margins to the banks (para 18).
(xii)         Bank and borrower performance. Identification, preparation and appraisal can all be
considered satisfactory by the standards prevailing at the time (paras. 27-30). The risk of inadequate
appraisal of SMIIs by commercial banks was fully recognized and the proposed Project design included:
(a) action plans to strengthen the commercial banks' term lending activities; and (b) the provision of technical
assistance to support institutions which would in tum help promote sound investments of new and existing
SMIs.  Given the standards in Tunisia at the time for loan classification, provisioning and capital
requirements, the analysis of the banks can be considered satisfactory (para 29). Bank supervision,
however, was inadequate in terms of scope, and between November 1991 and July 1994, after most of the
funds had been committed but the Project was not closed, it was not supervised at all. No infornation was
found in supervision reports or in the files on progress on a number of actions that were conditions in the
legal documents and/or figured prominently as Project components in the legal documents and the SAR
(paras. 31-32). On the borrowers' side, Project preparation and covenant compliance can be considered
satisfactory, Project implementation less so, mainly because of the overall quality of the sub-projects financed
(paras. 33-35).
(xiii)        Assessment of outcome. Given the incidence of arrears and information available on cost
overruns, and given that employment creation was at less than 50% in terms of numbers and about double
the average cost projected, the Project should be rated overall as unsatisfactory in terms of the achievement
of its stated objectives (para 36).



iv
Key Lessons Learned
(xiv)          One of the main lessons from  this project is that banks' participation in financial
intermediation projects should be based on analysis of their ability to intermediate, including, inter alia, the
quality of their loan portfolios. Such analysis, in turn, is predicated on having in place strict prudential
regulations, against which the quality of the portfolio and the profitability of the institutions can be measured.
In addition, sub-project eligibility criteria should reflect the reality of the local situation and be relevant to the
participating banks, so as to ensure that the banks will have an interest in respecting the criteria Finally,
projects would do better to focus either on financial sector issues or real sector issues, rather than mix them
both in the same project, as this one did. In this case too little analysis was done of the proper role of support
institutions, and during implementation, little attention was paid to the technical assistance and training efforts
that had been planned for the banks and the support institutions.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
A. Statement of Objectives
1.                  Following what were considered successful operations promoting small-scale
industrial development (a pilot line of credit under Loans 1504 and 1 505-TUN and a first small-scale
industry project, Loan 1969-TUN, all of which were given '"atisfactory" ratings by the Operations
Evaluation Department), the main objective of the Second Small and Medium Scale Industry
Development Project (SSI II) was to foster the development of small and medium scale industrial firms
(SMIs). The objectives of this project were presented in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as follows:
(a) to increase financial resources available to and strengthen the term lending
operations of commercial banks so as to establish medium and long-term instruments for SMI financing;
(b) to finance economically and financially sound and technically feasible projects in
the small and medium scale sector;
(c) to foster a new class of industrial entrepreneurs to provide managers and
technicians to the industrial sector;
(d) to create employment at an investment cost per job lower than the national
average in the industrial sector.
2.            To achieve these objectives, the loan consisted of two parts:  a credit line, to be
channeled through three commercial and two development banks, to finance sub-projects meeting
eligibility criteria (US$27.5 million), and a technical assistance component designed to strengthen two
support institutions in project promotion and design and management and operation of SMIs (US$0.5
million from the loan plus bilateral grant funds); technical assistance to the commercial banks for SMI
lending was to be financed by the banks themselves.
3.           The objectives were consistent with:  (a) general Bank support to Government's
priorities for helping the Tunisian economy transition from being petroleum/phosphate-based to being
more sectorally balanced and efficient, with due attention to increasing employment; (b) prevailing
wisdom that targeted lines of credit were an efficient way to achieve a given set of objectives; and
(c) data indicating that promotion of SMIs, as opposed to larger scale industries, was a lower-cost way
to create employment. Bank staff had commented at some length, however, on experience in Tunisia with
targeting and subsidies to SMIs: when criteria for access to subsidies or special programs included ceilings
on investment costs, firms had an incentive to underestimate their project costs in order to qualify; the result
was cost over-runs and over-indebtedness. Thus problems of targeting for small-scale enterprises had
already been identified by Bank staff.
4.           The objectives focused on both the financial sector and the real sector. In the financial
sector, the project was aimed at strengthening financial institutions, improving incentives for
commercial banks by establishing wider margins for SSI lending, and removing distortions in the



2
incentive structure by carrying out a study of the Government's targeted, subsidized investment fund.'
For the real sector, the objectives included strengthening services to small enterprises by providing
technical assistance and training to support institutions.
5.            The objective of fostering a new class of industrial entrepreneurs was based on the
assumption that employment in SMI firms constituted appropriate training for managers and
technicians. The SAR did not explain how the objective was to be monitored, other than by measuring
the employment created under the Loan. This in itself, however, would not be an indicator of the
degree to which "a new class of entrepreneurs" had been fostered. Thus, this objective can be
considered the weakest, both in terms of its logic and in terms of the ability to monitor whether it was
achieved.
B. Achievement of Objectives
6.            The first objective, increasing financial resources to commercial banks for creating
medium and long term instruments for SMI financing, was partially achieved under the Loan. About
60% of the funds under the Loan were disbursed through commercial banks, the remaining funds to the
firms being disbursed through two development banks. The active interest by commercial banks in use
of Bank funds for this purpose can probably be attributed to both the wider margins enjoyed by the
commercial banks as a condition of Bank on-lending, and the ability of the commercial banks to count
such lending as part of their 'required"financing of priority activities. All the firms financed under the
Loan did not, however, meet the criteria for '"mall and medium" The maximum ceilings in the
Project Agreement on investment size, although respected at the time of sub-project appraisal, were
sometimes exceeded by significant cost over-runs (of over 100%). Based on information from two of
the five banks on final investment costs, half of the sub-projects cost considerably more than estimated,
in a period of modest inflation (5%-8% p.a.). Investments that were not to exceed DT2 million for new
enterprises and DT3.3 million for existing enterprises sometimes cost in excess of DT4 million. Some
banks were more vigilant than others in ensuring compliance with eligibility criteria.
7.            The extent to which the remaining part of this first objective was met was modest.
Strengthening term lending activities of commercial banks can be judged by the quality of the portfolio
of term loans; for two out of the three participating commercial banks, over 60% of the portfolio
financed under the Loan is in arrears; only one of the commercial banks (BT) has a healthy portfolio,
with only 2 out 14 sub-loans in arrears (for all five banks, 50% of the sub-loans are in arrears, 15% are
under litigation). While this may not be representative of all term lending by these banks,2 it is a
powerful indicator that term lending still requires considerable improvement. See Table below for
details.
8.            The objective of financing economically and financially sound projects was not
formalized by a specific minimum financial rate of return, either in the SAR or legal documents,
although a 10% minimum economic rate of return was required. A review of the files shows that the
participating banks usually (but not always) calculated a financial rate of return, of at least 12%, but did
not generally calculate an economic rate of return. Given the evidence on cost over-runs and the rate of
FOPRODI was a Government program of investment subsidies in the form of grants and highly subsidized interest
rates on loans to SMA firms and to firms locating in decentralized areas of the country. Preliminary analysis by Bank staff
indicated that the subsidies were higher than necessary to serve as an incentive and difficult to measure. It was thus
proposed to study the scheme with the aim of developing recommendations to make FOPRODI more efficient and
transparent.
2 BDET, one of the participating development banks, noted that the quality of the portfolio of 21 sub-projects fnanced
under the Loan was not representative of the situation of the i 0 SMIs in their portfolio.



3
arrears, it is likely that a sizable proportion of sub-projects have not achieved an acceptable financial or
economic rate of return.
9.            The last two objectives dealing with employment creation were quantified in the SAR
at 4,000 new jobs at an average cost of US$17,500 per job (about DT14,000 at the current exchange
rate). During project implementation, employment creation was less than half that expected, and the
average cost about double, with 1,950 jobs created at an average cost of about US$34,490 per job
(DT31,300), in current terms. In addition, in an effort to ensure that the investment cost per job did not
exceed a certain level, it was fixed in the Project Agreement at DT30,000 per job (in constant
December 1987 terms) and then increased in 1990 to DT40,000 per job. Exception could be made to
this criterion under specific circumstances, also specified in the Project Agreement: the average net
cost per employee (new and old) should be within the limit and the enterprise had to export at least
25% of its output, and the proposed investment fulfill other priorities of Government with respect to
decentralization, industrial linkage and transfer of technology. Several banks ignored the criterion
requiring the cost per job created to be no greater than DT30,000; some involved an estimated
investment cost per job of over DT100,000, with no indication that the other criteria were met. In the
case of one participating bank, three of the eight sub-projects financed under the Loan involved a final
cost per job of DT225,00 - DT400,000.
Table: Sub-projects financed by banks
Total                     Average        No. of
Investment                    cost per    subprojects       No. of
Number of         Cost       Number of        job       in arrears"    subprojects in
subprojects    (DT '000)*     new jobs        (DT)        (06/95)       litigation***
Objectives     100          100,000        4,000          13,950
Realized         61          61,089        1,951          31,312         31              9
BDET           23          17,476        1,020          17,130         15              7
BTEI            8          12,901          288          44,795          3           1 (class 4)
BS              7           8,902          244          36,480          5             n/a
BT             14           8,605          309          29,670          2             n/a
STB             9          13,205           90        146,725           5              2
*      Two banks gave information on actual investment costs; for the other banks, the investment costs were
those estimated at sub-project appraisal.
**     Does not distinguish by age of arrears, except for BTEI, where only those at least 90 days in arrears are
included, and BDET where those at least 150 days are included.
***    As a subset of those in arrears
Note:  Information provided as of 06/94 for BS and BT; 06/95 for BTEI and STB; and 12/95 for BDET.
10.           On a more positive note, except for some delay in effectiveness that had an impact on
the pace of commitments and disbursements during the first three fiscal years, disbursements were
generally ahead of appraisal estimates for most of the implementation period and the Loan was virtually
fully disbursed (Table 4). This is in sharp contrast to the two previous lines of credit (Loans 2522 and
2554), for which 50-60% of the loan amounts had to be canceled for lack of investment demand and
competition from subsidized lines of credit (Table 5)3.
11.           The Project also included technical assistance to the Government's Agence de
Promotion de l'Industrie (API) and a private employers' group, l'Union Tunisienne de l'Industrie, du
3 In spite of these cancellations, both loans were given "satisfactory" ratings by the Operations Evaluation Department.



4
Commerce et de l'Artisanat (UTICA), two agencies providing services to SMIs, and technical
assistance to the commercial banks. The technical assistance to API was to be financed by US$0.5
million from the Loan; the technical assistance to UTICA financed through a grant from Belgium; and
the technical assistance to the banks financed by the banks themselves in the context of action plans
each commercial bank had drawn up. The SAR quantified expected output only for UTICA, which
involved assisting 300 enterprises in the 1987-90 period and covering their operating costs through fee
income from assistance to the enterprises.
12.          During Project implementation, API's role shifted from providing technical assistance
to SMIs and to banks for preparing and appraising projects to serving as a 'bne-stop shop"for potential
investors. As a result, the Project Description in the Loan Agreement was modified to reflect this, the
condition of disbursement for API-related expenditures on hiring an engineer was dropped, and the
expenditures were reallocated slightly. In addition, API began to carry out diagnostic studies on
selected SMIs. API continued to consult with the Bank throughout Project implementation on use of
the funds. API also sent a report, requested by the Bank, on the implementation of the project
component and on the diagnostic studies, which is attached to the present report as Annex I.
13.          Narrowly considered, the implementation of the technical assistance to API can be
considered satisfactory, in the sense that the categories of inputs were achieved roughly as planned. In
a larger context, however, the inclusion and implementation of this component are questionable in two
respects. In the first place, API's overall mandate was not thoroughly examined during preparation
and appraisal in terms of the proper role for a Government agency. One internal Bank memo
recommended in 1986 that API's role be limited to promotional activities and that API not provide
policy, financial or management advice. In spite of this, the Bank continued to prepare a component to
strengthen API's role as advisor to banks and to enterprises. This may be due to the relatively long
relationship between the Bank and API, going back to at least 1977, which the Bank did not want to
jeopardy by calling into question API's basic mandate. Second, once the project component was in
place to strengthen API as an advisor on SSI projects, the shift in that role appears to have been treated
relatively casually:  a supervision mission discussed the shift and agreed that the condition of
disbursement should be dropped. There does not appear to have been a re-examination of training,
equipment and technical assistance needs in light of API's changed emphasis as investment promoter.
14.          The signing of the grant to finance UTICA's assistance program was a condition of
effectiveness. Because it was delayed, however, the Bank accepted evidence instead that UTTICA's
program would be entirely financed by  TIICA itself, if necessary. The grant was put in place in 1989,
however, and a supervision mission reported in September 1989 that the program was to get underway
shortly. This is the last mention in the files of this component, although one of the task managers
supervising the Project recalls that the program was actively underway in 1990. A report issued in
Apnrl 1995 by external consultants on UTICA's 'Centre de Conseil et de Developpement pour les
PME -- (CDD)"noted that between 1985 and 1989 175 enterprises were assisted by the CDD, but the
average length of the intervention was only several hours. In the ensuing 3 years, about 200 enterprises
were assisted by CDD, and operating costs were never covered. In 1994, in view of the costliness of
the program, CDD was closed; nevertheless, a decision was made in 1995 to reactivate the service.
The consultants recommended that the service be limited to sensitizing enterprises to the need to
upgrade their management skills by seeking specialized consultants in their fields to do so.
15.          Concerning the "action plans" that were to be carried out by the commercial banks with
their own resources, no mention of them is found in the files. As noted above, of the three commercial
banks participating in the Project, however, only Banque de Tunisie has an acceptable portfolio quality.



5
Even if the banks did carry out the action plans as intended, there is still considerable scope for
improvement in term lending activities.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors that may not be subject to control of Government or of implementing agencies
16.           The relatively poor performance of most of the sub-projects, as measured by repayment
rates of sub-loans, has been attributed by BDET to, among other factors,4 the Gulf War, which
occurred just as a number of these enterprises started up their operations. The impact of the Gulf War
was felt throughout the economy, mainly through its effect on tourism, which dropped sharply in 1991,
and on all enterprises providing goods and services to tourism. BDET noted that about half of the
enterprises financed under this Loan started up operations between mid- 1990 and mid- 1991.
17.           While the Gulf War may help explain some of the problems experienced by the
enterprises benefiting from the Loan funds, all the banks' portfolios did not suffer equally: BT had a
healthy portfolio. Only 14% of the enterprises financed by BT were in arrears as of June 1994,5 in
sharp contrast to the rate of arrears (38%-71%) experienced by the other banks. BT's clients started up
operations at the same time as the clients of the other banks; this calls into question the validity of the
explanation. The answer may lie instead in the quality of the appraisal process and/or the attention to
supervision by BT compared to that of the other banks.
18.           The generally good commitrment and disbursement performance can be attributed to
the Project design and associated conditionality: the beneficiaries were relatively broadly defined, in
contrast to the two previous lines of credit, which were narrowly targeted to certain sectors of the
economy, and thus more vulnerable to economic downturns; the Loan was appropriately sized, in
contrast to the two previous lines of credit, which proved to be over-dimensioned; and it was channeled
through a number of banks, including commercial banks, again in contrast to the two previous lines of
credit which used only three development banks. In addition, loan conditionality specified adequate
margins to the commercial banks for lending under the Loan (it was negotiated prior to interest rate
liberalization), thus ensuring commercial banks' interest.
Factors at least partly subject to the implementing agencies' control
19.           The participating banks bear the responsibility for selecting and appraising the sub-
projects to finance. The banks also bear responsibility for supervision during the investment and
operating phases, and for following up at the earliest signs of difficulties in repayments. The process of
improving loan recoveries includes becoming proactive in helping troubled enterprises restructure,
financially as well as operationally.
20.           A number of the investments ran into substantial cost over-runs. One factor causing
this may be the tendency to underestimate investment costs so as to be eligible for subsidies under a
program targeted to SMIs and/or for the Bank line of credit, which stipulated maximum investment
costs. A number of these sub-projects were very close to the maximum amounts at the outset. Rather
BDET also attributes poor performance to unfortunate choice of sectors of activity, particularly textiles, and to the
failure of a number of foreign partners to honor their comnmnitments. These factors are part of normnal commercial risk,
however, to be assessed by the entrepreneurs and the banks.
This is the latest date for which information from BT is available. Comparison of information from June 1994 for the
other four banks leads to identical conclusions.



6
than insisting that the enterprises finance the cost over-runs with equity financing, the participating
banks may have extended further loans, as was the case in the past, thus being partly responsible for
the over-indebtedness of the enterprises.
21.          Improving repayment performance of their clients may not, however, be entirely within
the control of the banks. Development banks in particular, because they are not allowed to manage
current accounts, cannot as easily track their clients' operations as commercial banks can. In addition,
recent work in the banking sector in Tunisia indicates that recovery procedures are weak in general.
Even the stronger commercial banks have not had great success, in spite of concentrating their efforts,
in improving recoveries.
22.          A number of factors may account for difficulties in recoveries: (a) constraints in the
legal system, including the laws governing loan recoveries; laws governing enterprises in difficulties,
which leaves final decisions about disposal of assets up to the judiciary; the cumbersome workings of
the judicial system, which is slow and costly; and (b) the intemal policies and procedures of the banks
themselves: some banks are only now, in 1995, becoming conscious of the need to develop a proactive
approach to working with their clients. At the time of the Project's implementation (1989-95),
Tunisian banks were still emerging from a heavily controlled financial environment, where all interest
rates decided by the authorities, and lending decisions were subject to a priori approval from the
Central Bank (interest rates were liberalized and a priori approval was abolished in 1988). Moving
from such a system to one where banks take a pro-active approach to their clients, including developing
an effective early warning system and a well-staffed work out department, may take several years.
D. Project Sustainability
23.          As noted above (paras 6-9), only one of the four objectives stated in the SAR can be
considered partly achieved. Financial resources available to commercial banks for making term loans
to SMIs were increased during project implementation, probably on an incremental basis. The other
objectives as stated in the SAR were not met. Narrowly considered, project achievements cannot be
considered sustainable.
24.          If long term resources to SMIs through the banking system show an upward trend, it
could be argued that this Project may have indirectly contributed to such an increase. It is not clear
that this will be the case, however. First, although Government authorities continue to voice concern
for and interest in promoting SMIIs, particularly through bank lending, the recently revised Investment
Code reduces the categories of enterprises eligible for investment subsidies. Traditional bank financing
may be too costly for the more marginal SMIs, which is economically appropriate, but may mean a
decrease in overall SMI lending. On the other hand, the 1994 banking law now permits commercial
banks to lend long term, where they had previously not been allowed; once greater term transformation
is permitted by the Central Bank, term lending through commercial banks may increase, and at least
some of the beneficiaries may be SMIs.
25.          Second, the Free Trade Agreement recently signed with the European Union (EU)
includes a schedule for gradually eliminating all protection from European imports (except for
agricultural products) over a twelve year period. Existing SMIs producing essentially for the domestic
market will thus face greater competition and investment demand may decrease. To counter adverse
effects on domestic enterprises, the Government, with the help of the EU, is implementing a
'Competitiveness upgrading program'" to be targeted mainly at SMIs affected by the liberalization. In
addition, lending interest rates on 'priority" activities, including lending to SMIs, are soon to be



7
liberalized, thereby allowing banks to realize greater margins on such lending than in the past; these
factors may increase investments lending to SMIs.
26.          In spite of efforts to promote bank lending to SMIs, stricter prudential regulations make
it more costly for banks to make such loans. This is the third, and perhaps most important, factor
mitigating against efforts to increase lending to SMIs: new prudential regulations, in effect since 1992,
make it more costly for banks to take larger risks. Lending to new SMIs that do not belong to one of
the forty or so large dominant groups in Tunisia is considered by some Tunisian bankers to be
considerably riskier than lending to the large, known groups; if these loans fall into arrears or if the
enterprises fail to produce timely financial information, the banks are required to make provisions.
Such prudential regulations are likely to have their intended effect: to make the banks more prudent,
thereby reducing their willingness to lend to SMIs. On balance, it is difficult to predict whether
commercial bank lending to SMls will increase over time.
E. Bank Performance
27.          The identification of the Project in 1984 was consistent with both Govemment
priorities and Bank strategy for supporting those priorities. It continued the on-going work in lines of
credit, but was considered a follow up operation to an earlier one in support of SMIs (Loan 1969,
approved in 1981), rather than a continuation of other lines of credit under implementation or
preparation that were targeted to specific industries (Loan 2113, approved in 1982; Loan 2522,
subsequently approved in 1985; and Loan 2554, subsequently approved in 1986). In its consistency,
and given the conventional wisdom at the time about lines of credit (targeting was OK, the financial
institutions should be strong according to whatever measures were available, the incentives right),
identification can be considered satisfactory.
28.          Project preparation was ultimately carried out by the Bank (with some input from API
on the API-related component) over about eighteen months, from mid-1985 through October 1986
(Table 3). It can also be considered satisfactory. The focus of the preparation gradually shifted (due
perhaps in part to a change in task manager), from the need to strengthen support institutions for SMIs
to the issues confronting banks in their financing of SMIs. Preparation included proposals for
strengthening commercial banks to improve their appraisal and supervision of SMIs, through three
sources: through action plans to be carried out by the banks themselves, by strengthening API to help
with project proposals from new SMIs and by strengthening UTICA to help with project proposals
from existing SMIs. In addition, the risk was clearly identified that the commercial banks would not
adequately appraise SMIs.  The preparation was thus consistent in its approach to involving
commercial banks in SMI lending, in full recognition of the risks, and with effort made to mitigate
against them. Preparation staff also recognized real sector constraints, but noted that an adjustment
loan was under preparation, which was eventually put in place, to deal with the relevant policy issues
(this was the ITPAL, see Table 2).
29.          Given the standards prevailing in 1987for analysis of banks, both within Tunisia and
within the Bank, the appraisal of the participating banks can be considered satisfactory. Judged by
today's standards, however, post-OD8.30 (issued several years after the appraisal mission), the Bank's
appraisal of the participating banks would be considered inadequate. In addition, the SAR was
contradictory in its presentation of eligibility criteria for participation in the Project: near the top of the
list was: (a) the number of branches, which doesn't explain how two development banks were
included; and (b) the condition of the medium and long term portfolio; the SAR then goes on to note



8
that the portfolio condition couldn't really be analyzed.6 The choice of banks was based mainly on their
participation in previous Bank lines of credit. In light of the application of new, stricter prudential
regulations in Tunisia, and audits of international standards, we know today that some of the
participating banks were among the weaker ones in the system in terms of portfolio quality,
provisioning for loan loss, and capital adequacy.
30.            The need to include a limit on the cost per job created was questioned during the
internal review process, with the argument that minimum econormic and financial rates of return were
sufficient to ensure viability. Since the limit on cost per job was not respected during implementation,
it would have been advisable if this criterion, and the associated objective, had been dropped.
31.            For the first three years of the Project implementation (1989-1991), Bank supervision
can be considered adequate in terms of frequency (roughly once a year), but not in terms of scope:
(a) commnitments were approved by the Bank for sub-projects that did not meet
eligibility criteria as defined in thc Loan Agreement in terms of maximum cost per job created and
estimated rates of return (paras. 8 & 9); given the focus in the Project Agreement on the cost-per-job
and the fact that the Bank bothered to amend the legal document in this respect during implementation,
the lack of attention as to whether sub-projects actually met these criteria is particularly striking;
(b) the Loan Agreement stipulated that a study was to be carried out of FOPRODL the
program of investment subsidies for SMI; there is no mention of this study in the files, although one of
the task managers has reported that the Bank did receive the study, with some delay, and made
comments. There is no evidence, however, that the Bank ever followed up on whether the study's
recommendations were carried out, as required by the Loan Agreement.'
(c) there is no mention in the supervision reports of Government reimbursement to
BDET of foreign exchange losses, also in the Loan Agreement, although one of the task managers has
noted that this was reviewed during supervision missions and that reimbursements remained
problematic. 8
(d) the technical assistance program to UTICA was supposed to be an integral part of
the Project, but supervision reports are virtually silent on the follow up as to either the input or the
expected provision of assistance to SMIs and increase in fee income on that account (see para. 14);
(e) there is no mention in supervision reports of banks' action plans for strengthening
term lending for commercial banks that was a focus of attention during preparation and at appraisal;
(f) there is no mention in supervision reports or in the files that the Bank ever
systematically reviewed on-lending rates of participating banks, as required under the Loan
Agreement; this may be due to the fact that interest rates were generally liberalized in 1988, after the
6 The task manager involved at appraisal noted that the team carried out a detailed analysis of the banks' term portfolios.
Given the less strict standards of loan classification prevailing at the time in Tunisia, however, the portfolios probably
looked much healthier than they would today.
A subsequent consultant's report in 1995 noted that FOPRODI has undergone a number of changes since 1990, both
legal and in practice, and as a result of these changes, the portion of FOPRODI subsidies used by SMI has declined
sharply between 1990 and 1995. Since the study carried out during Project implementation is not available, it is
impossible to determine whether its recommendations were in part responsible for the subsequent changes.
BDET has recently reported that the amounts due to BDET by Government on account of foreign exchange losses
should rapidly decrease as of 1996. BDET has been predicting this decrease for a number of years now.



9
Loan was negotiated, but to the extent that SMI investment lending was still subject to interest rate
ceilings, this should have been monitored.
32.           In addition, two and a half years elapsed between the supervision mission of November
1991, when the funds were virtually fully committed, and July 1994. It was only in 1994 that a
supervision mission requested information on the portfolios of sub-projects in terms of final investment
costs, financial performance of the enterprises and repayments of the sub-loans. It is arguable whether
more intense or thorough supervision missions could have improved the quality of the results, but at a
minimum, more attention could have been paid to ensuring that sub-project eligibility criteria were
respected, and if necessary, altered to fit reality. In addition, once the sub-projects were under
implementation, a more pro-active approach to examining their performance might have encouraged
the participating banks to take a similarly pro-active approach to monitoring their repayments. Total
resources allocated to supervision were about 32 staff weeks over about six years, or about five staff
weeks per year; it appears that this was too little. In conclusion, Bank supervision of this Project can
be considered deficient.
F. Borrower Performance
33.           To the extent that the implementing agencies, including API, actively participated in
project preparation, it can be considered satisfactory. Participating banks were responsive in terms of
promptly providing the information requested by Bank staff, including action plans for strengthening
term lending operations.
34.           Implementation, however, was less satisfactory in several respects. As noted above
(paras. 7-9, 31), sub-project criteria were not always respected at the outset and during
implementation, costs of investment sometimes exceeded by significant amounts the maximum
established in the Project Agreement. Second, as measured by repayment rates of the sub-loans, the
quality of the sub-projects has not been good. It is difficult to know whether this is due to deficient
appraisal methods, including perhaps inadequate attention to debt-service capacity and associated risk
factors, or deficient supervision methods, which do not detect problems early enough and/or do not
actively seek solutions to enterprises in difficulty, such as financial restructuring (increasing equity,
rescheduling debts), new partners, outside technical or marketing advice.9
35.           Covenant compliance was generally satisfactory, under both the Loan and Project
Agreements (Table 7), with the significant exceptions of participating banks: (a) conducting their
operations in accordance with sound financial standards and practices (Project Agreement, Section
2.01), given the high proportion of subloans in arrears; and (b) respecting the eligibility criteria for
investment projects (Project Agreement, Schedule 1, and see paras 6-9). In many cases, where there
was no compliance or partial compliance, the Bank bears part of the responsibility, as in the case, for
example, of the requirement to review with the Borrower at least once a year rates of interest paid by
beneficiary enterprises. Special mention should be made of compliance with audit covenants, as the
record shows (Table 10) that compliance is better than that mentioned in supervision reports. When
audit compliance is corrected to take into account the years in which Project Account audits were not
due because there were no disbursements, the overall compliance rate is 74% (reports received as a
BDET has noted that the relatively poor repayment rates are due to poor choice of sector of activity, deficiencies in
foreign partners, and the Gulf War. As noted above, however, the sector of activity as well foreign partners are an
integral part of the commercial risk to be assessed by entrepreneur and bank alike; and the Gulf War has not been an
equally significant factor for all banks, thus begging the question why it should have been so for only some of them.



10
proportion of those due). In addition, compliance on Financial statement audits is 96%. When the
issue of Project Account audits was raised in 1994 with participating banks, some of them were
unaware of the requirement (although Project Account audits were received for some of the banks up
until 1991); this is at least partly the responsibility of the Bank.
G. Assessment of Outcome
36.           The four main objectives of the project can be put in two categories: to channel greater
resources to SMIs for carrying out viable sub-projects; and to create employment at a relatively low
cost. On both counts, the Project should be rated as unsatisfactory. This rating is based on:
(a) evidence of cost overruns; for the two banks reporting actual investment costs, 50% of the sub-
projects had significant cost over-runs (mostly between 35% and 250%); (b) the average incidence of
arrears on sub-loan repayments: 30 out of 61, or about 50%; (c) the incidence of sub-loans under
litigation, which usually implies arrears of at least one year and little possibility of finding an amicable
arrangement: 10 out of 60, or 16%. It is unlikely that the overallfinancial viability of the sub-projects
attained a satisfactory leveL (d) employment creation was not at the low average cost anticipated, even
taking into account the effects of inflation; and (e) the ceiling on the investment cost per job created
was not always respected even at the outset of the sub-projects, and was further exceeded during
implementation due to cost overruns.
H. Future Operation
37.           In a narrow, project-related sense, the main task for the participating banks will be to
continue to monitor the performance of the enterprises financed under the Loan and to take a pro-active
role in following up on clients that show early signs of problems as well as in working with clients
already having problems. The obvious measure of success would be an improvement in the quality of
the portfolio in terms of a reduction in the proportion of the portfolio experiencing arrears.
38.           In a larger sense, however, the banks should focus their efforts on the entire portfolio,
and not limit their efforts to those 61 enterprises financed under the Loan. The on-going Private
Investment Credit Project (PICP) involves over ten banks, and supervision has been closely monitoring
their portfolio quality (three of the banks under this Project are also participating currently in the PICP)
and their action plans, whose objectives include, inter alia, improvement in the quality of their
portfolios and an increase in their recovery rates. Supervision has begun to focus on the general
weakness in recoveries and will be pursuing this further. It will be interesting to follow up, a number
of years from now, the evolution of the banks' portfolios in terms of overall quality.
I. Key Lessons Learned
39.           The four major lessons that can be drawn from this Project are:
(a) the critical role of good prudential regulations: only by having strict, objective
criteria for measuring the quality of the banks' portfolios and for accounting for income can adequate
appraisals be carried out on potential participants in lines of credit. In the absence of such prudential
regulations, it is extremely difficult to measure whether objective eligibility criteria are met for
participation in on-lending activities (see next point);
(b) the importance of objective eligibility criteria for bank participation in on-lending
activities, to include the quality of the loan portfolio as a key indicator of the ability of the bank to
channel funds to viable sub-projects. The eligibility criteria for participation in the PICP does not
explicitly include quality of the loan portfolio, although this is being closely monitored. It will be



11
interesting to see whether PICP is any more successful in terms of the quality of the sub-projects
financed than SMI II has been;
(c) the importance of eligibility criteria for sub-projects that reflect the reality of the
local situation and are relevant to the participating banks; this will ensure that the banks have an
interest in respecting them and be able to do so. The on-going PICP uses eligibility criteria for sub-
projects that are mostly relevant to the participating financial institutions (with the exception of the
economnic rate of return and environmental clearance, which are relevant to the society). and
(d) it is preferable to focus efforts on either financial sector issues or real sector issues
in a given project, rather than mix both in one project. The on-going PICP deals solely with financial
institution issues and a project under preparation in Tunisia (the Private Industry Support Infrastructure
Upgrading Project) focuses on support institutions for private enterprises, with due attention to the
analysis of the proper role, status, staffing, organization, and effectiveness of operations of these
institutions.



12
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Studies Included in Project
Table 7:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:       Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:      Participating banks audit compliance



13
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objective      Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                       aI             a               ai             CE
Sector policies                     ai             lx              Li              o
Financial objectives                 ax                            L aa
Institutional development            La             a                              Li
Physical objective                   ai            ES]            La                ai
Poverty reduction                    L              Li             Li              ES
Gender issue                         nI             a              L               [
Other social objective               ni               i             a               S
Environmental objective              nl             LI             La              ES
Public sector management             Li             Li             Li              ES
Private sector management            E]             L                              L i
Lower-eost employment                n[                            Li              Li
creation
B. Project sustainabilitv               Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
a                  E]                  Li
C. Bank performance             Highly satisfactory          Satisfactorv              Deficient
Identification                         Li                       IX                        Li
Preparation                            Li                       ES]                       Li
Appraisal                              Li                       E]                        Li
Supervision                            Li                        a                        S
D. Borrower performance              Highly                  Satisfactory              Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                              i                       x                        L
Implementation                         Li                       L                        ES
Covenant Compliance                    L                        lx                        Li
E: Assessment of Outcome          Highly          Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory         Highly
satisfactory                                            Unsatisfactory
Li                LiES                                   Li



14
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan (name)
Loan number                 Purpose          Year of             Status
Original loan amnount                           approval
Preceding operations
Small-Scale Industry           Line of credit to        1981    Closed 12/31/88
Development Project            targeted industries               $27.35 mn disbursed
Loan 1969                                                       $2.65 nn canceled
$30 mn
Electrical and Mechanical      Line of credit to        1982    Closed 12/31/87
Industries Project             targeted industries               $20.9 mn disbursed
Loan 2113                                                        $9.6 mn canceled
$30.5 mn
Export Industries Project      Line of credit to        1985    Closed 06/30/92
Loan 2522                      targeted industries              $25.76 mn disbursed
$50 mn                                                           $24.24 inn canceled
Second Electrical and Mechanical   Line of credit to    1986    Closed 06/30/92
Industries                    targeted industries                $20.86 mnn disbursed
Loan 2554                                                        $33.14 mn canceled
$54 mn
Industrial Trade and Policv    Adjustment loan to       1987    Closed 12/31/89
Adjustment Loan                reform trade and price            $150 mn disbursed
Loan 2781                      policy
$150 nn
Following operations
Private Investment Credit Project   Lines of credit to all  1993    Ongoing
Loans 3671-80                  economic sectors                 Scheduled to close
120 tnn                                                         12/31/99



15
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development
(Loan 2911 -TUN)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned               Date actual!
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  September 1984            September 1984
Preparation                                 May 1985                  May 1985
Appraisal                                   October 1986              November 1986
Negotiations                                February 1987             December 1987
Board presentation                          June 25, 1987             February 16, 1988
Signing                                                               April 13, 1988
Effectiveness                               September 1987            February 2, 1989
Midterm review of commitments               December 31, 1989         Sept. 1989 and Oct. 1990
Project completion                          December 31, 1994         December 31, 1994
Loan closing                                June30, 1995              June30, 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
______________________FY88  FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95             FY96
Appraisal Estimate         1.6    3.9    10.0    16.8    21.8    25.4    27.5    28.0         _
Actual                     0      0       6.8     17.4    25.5    26.0    26.5    26.5         26.5
Actual as % of estimate    0      0       68       104     117      102     95       95        95
Date of final disbursement      =                                                              11109/95



16
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in    Estimated at appraisal     Actual as of June 30, 1995
SAR
Bank lending to sub-projects     100 subprojects               60 subprojects financed
Total investment cost:        Total investment cost:
US$100 million;               US$67 million;
Bank lending:                 Bank lending:
BDET: US$6.5 mn.            BDET: US$6.2 mn lent for 22 sub-projects, of
which 15 in arrears (71% of value lent)
BS: US$ 6 million.          BS: US$5.1 mn lent for 7 sub-projects, of which
5 in arrears (68% of value) as of 06/94
BT: US$ 5 million           BT: US$5.2 mn lent for 14 sub-projects, of
which 2 in arrears (22% of value) as of 06/94
BTEI: US$4 million          BTEI: US$3.3 mn lent for 8 sub-projects, of
which 3 in arrears (40% of value)
STB: US$ 6 million          STB: US$6.0 mn lent for 9 subprojects, of which
5 in arrears (45% of value)
Job creation at lower cost than  4,000 jobs to be created       About 1,900 jobs created
national average                 Average cost/job: US$17,500   Average cost/job: US$35,000 (current terms)
(in constant end -87 terms)
API and UTICA to increase and    Inputs: technical assistance and  Inputs achieved roughly as estimated; UTICA
improve assistance to SMI        training defined; Outputs: API   did not meet targets; API carried out diagnoses
not defined; UTICA assistance    of 26 SMIs to develop restructuring plans
to 300 enterprises for fee to
cover costs;



17
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study         Purpose as defined at appraisal    Status                    Impact of study
FOPRODI    To review system of incentives for    According to one of       Demand from SMI for
small-scale enterprises            the task managers,        FOPRODI benefits has
study was completed      decreased continuously
with some delay;         since 1990, with legal and
study not in files.      administrative changes.
Since study is not available,
it is impossible to judge
whether the changes were
the result of the study's
recommendations.



18
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Covenant   Present status    Original fulfillment date         Description of covenant                 Comments
type
Loani Agreement                                                                                                                       I
3 01       10          C               NA                         Borrower commitment to objectives and
_  responsibilities
3.02 (a)    3           C              NA                         General conditions for onlending funds
3.02 (b)    2          NC              once a year                Borrower and Bank to review, with        No mention in files or
participating banks, at least once a year the    supervision reports interest
rates of interest paid by enterprises    rates paid by borrowing
enterprises
3.02 (c)    3          C               December 31, 1989 and once  Borrower and Bank to review the level of
a year thereafter          commitments made by each participating
bank and to reallocate, if necessary, the
uncommitted balances
3.03       3            C              NA                          Borrower to enter into grant agreement with
API                                                                 l
3.04       3            C              NA                         Borrower to enter into grant agreement with
UTICA
3.07       10           CP             September 30, 1988          Borrower to fumish to Bank study and     Study was completed about
recomrnmendations on operations of FOPRODI  one year late, but not
and thereafter carry out recommendations of   available in files, no
study                                    information available whether
recommendations carried out



19
4.01        1           NC               September 30 of each year    Borrower to ensure timely maintenance of   No audits received for Special
accounts and timely audits for Special     Account nor for
Account and use of Loan funds by API       disbursements on behalf of
__________                                                                API
4.02        11           CP              December 31, 1989 and        Borrower to reimburse BDET for foreign     No information available in
yearly thereafter           exchanges losses                           files; BDET has reported to
missions, however, a gradual
decrease in receivables from
Government due to FE losses.
4.03        12           C               NA                           Borrower to take into account the sub-loans
and investments made by a participating bank
to calculate that bank's ratio of priority
l__________    _ __________________________    activities  financing
Schedule 7  3            C               NA                           Principal terms and conditions of subsidiary
l              n                                                      loan agreements
Proylct,4,ifrremeXnt
2.01        10          CP               NA                           Participating banks declare commitment to  A high proportion of subloans
project objectives and to this end, shall  financed by most participating
conduct its operations in accordance with  banks under this project are in
l_________________________  sound financial standards and practices     arrears: see Table 5.
2.02 (a)    3           C                NA                           Sub-loans to be made in accordance with
procedures and agreed terrns and conditions
2.05 (c)    9           CP               annual                       Participating banks to report annually on  Format for reporting never
and (d)                                                               progress of sub-projects and forecast of   seems to have been agreed
activities, in a format agreed upon between  between Bank and banks
the Bank and each bank
3.01        1           CP               June 30 each year            Participating banks to submit audits within  No project accounts audits
six months of close of fiscal year         received from BS; for other
banks, several audits are
rmissing: see Table 10.



20
Schedule 1  3          CP              NA                         Eligibility criteria for investment projects  The criterion for maximum
investment cost per job was
not systematically respected;
The criterion for maximum
investment cost was complied
with at the time of sub-project
appraisal but then exceeded,
at times by substantial
amounts during
implementation
Schedule 2  3          C               NA                         Procedures for appraisal and approval, and
terms and conditions of sub-loans
Covenant types:
I Accounts/audits                                                      9 Monitoring, review and reporting
2 Financial performance/revenue generation for beneficiaries           10 Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3 Flow and utilization of project funds                                11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
4 Counterpart funding                                                  12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
5 Management aspect of the project or executing agency
Present status:
C     covenant complied with
CD   complied with after delay
CP   complied with partially
NC   not complied with



21
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industrv Development
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle         Planned (weeks)    Actual (weeks)
Through Appraisal              NA                    52.4
Apraisal Board                 NA                    8.0
Supervision                    NA                    32.4              l
Completion                     6.0                   5.0
TOTAL                          NA                    97.8
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Activity             Month/Year    Days in field,  N of persons    Specialized staff               Project
skills represented2      rating3
Identification                     9/84               7                 3                  E,F                 NA
Preparation                       12/84               3                 1                   E                  NA
Preparation                       05/85               7                 2                 E,CO                 NA
Preparation                       11/85              22                 3                  O,L                 NA
Preparation                       04/86               15                2                   F                  NA
Pre-appraisal                     06/86              22                 4                  F,L                 NA
Appraisal                         11/86               17                4                  F,L                 NA
Post-appraisal                    09/87               16                1                   F                  NA
Supervision 1                     02/88               2                 1                   F                  NA
Supervision 2                     09/89               12                4                F, 0, E                I
Supervision 3                     10/90               15                5                  F,O                  I
Supervision 4                     11/91               16                2                 E, 0                  1
Supervision 5                     07/94               7                 1                   F                 U/S
Completion                         none               -
Total number of days in the field is not a good indication of tinie spent on this project. Mlost missions covered more than one project, but
back-to-offtce reports did not specifPy the number of days on each project.
E   =   Economist
F   =   Financial specialist
0   =   Operations officer or operations analyst
CO  =   Country Officer
L   =   Labor experts (from ILO)
3
NA  =   Not applicable
U   =   Unsatisfactory
S   =   Satisfactory



22
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Tunisia
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
Table 10: Participating Banks' audit compliance
1990          1991           1992           1993           1994
FA     PA     FA      PA     FA      PA     FA     PA      FA     PA
BDET   [    0m  E0    0    0    0   0                                 0
BS    0                 0    0   0    0    0   03   0 1 O
BT       0      0       [HI    03      0      03     0              0
BTEI   0    E    0    0    01                   0   0    03 O 0
STB          0          0   0   0   03   0                           0
Code: FA      =       Financial statement audits
PA     =      Project account audits
O      =      Due and not received
103    =      Due and received
=      Not due because no disbursements in that year
Overall compliance: 31 audit reports received
42 audit reports due
Compliance rate = 74%



ANNEX
Page 1 of 9
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Ministry of International Cooperation and External Investment
Mr. Amir Al-Khafaji                        Tunis, September 29. 1995
Division Chief,
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure,
World Bank
RE:               Implementation Completion Report, Second Small and Medium-Scale
Industry Development Project (Loan 291 I-TUN).
YOUR REF.: Your letter of August 8, 1995.
A1TACHED:         Report.
In response to your letter, I am pleased to enclose the Report by API (Agence de
Promotion de l'Industrie) on the implementation of Part B I of the above project.
Respectfully yours,
Isl   Mohamed Mongi Lahbib,
Secretary General,
Ministry of International Cooperation and External Investment
(On behalf of the Minister)



ANNEX
Page 2 of 9
AGENCE DE PROMOTION DE L'INDUSTRIE
DCA/CH. N/L. B/
Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project
(Loan 291 1-TUN)
Evaluation of Component BI
The above Loan Agreement, duly amended on July 23, 1992, provided for US$500,000
to finance component BI (Technical Assistance), with the following breakdown:
(a)    Goods                           US$240,000
(b)   Consultants' services            US$130,000
(c)   Training                         US$ 130.000
Total: US$500,000
The amounts totaling US$260.000 for training and consultants' services were completely
disbursed in accordance with the above break-down to finance a Pilot Program of Diagnostic
Assessments and Advice for SMIs.
The remainder (US$240,000) was used to purchase equipment for API (see enclosed
memorandum).
Pilot Program of Diagnostic Assessments and Advice for SMIs
1.    Presentation of Program
The Program consisted of the following two phases:
Phase 1:     Training of API Staff:
Twelve members of the API staff received advanced training on the provision for SMIs
of diagnostic assessments and advice relating to the various functions of the enterprises.
The training was provided in France by M.D. Expansion/APRODI during the final quarter
of 1991.
Once trained, these staff members were formed into an API team of advisors (Corps de
Conseiilers API).



ANNEX
Page 3 of 9
2
Three have been assigned to the headquarters of the Central Directorate for Assistance
(Direction Centrale de l'Assistance), and the remainder to the Regional Directorates.
Phase 1[:    Diagnostic Assessments and Action Plans for 26 SMIs:
The 26 preselected SMIs represented various sectors of industry and regions of the country.
The task was performed by the team of advisors, supervised by expatriate and Tunisian consultants
from OPTIMUM Enterprise (France) and SAMEF (Tunisia).
The Agreement (dated May 14, 1993) and the Amendment (dated March 21, 1995) were
forwarded to the World Bank.
2.    Objectives
The Program had the following three objectives:
propose to the SMIs an action plan for increasing their competitiveness, based on
diagnostic assessments of all their functions;
arrange for the consultants to provide advanced on-the-job training for the API
team of advisors;
determine the key lessons learned from this component and design a strategy for
continuing and developing these activities, raising the consciousness of other SMIs
and training additional advisors, particularly at regional level.
3.    Program Implementation
Phase l:     Twelve staff members trained in France (cf $1 [sic]).
Phase IT:    Diagnostic assessments/Action plans for 26 SMIs.
The methodology consisted of the following five stages:
presentation of teaching tools and diagnostic assessment instruments;
preliminary inspections of enterprises by joint teams comprising API advisors and
consultants;
in-depth inspections of enterprises, and gathering of additional data;



ANNEX
Page 4 of 9
3
presentation to the heads of the enterprises of the draft diagnostic reports and
recommendations for implementing the action plans;
at the conclusion of the Pilot Program, organization of a national seminar and (in
addition to other activities) presentation of a Strategic Rep= on the experiment,
including recommendations for redirecting API policy on assistance for SMIs.
4.    Results of the Operation
Training for 12 API staff members in providing diagnostic assessments and advice
for SMIs.
These staff members were formed into a team of advisors, each equipped with a 'tool kit"
(i.e. a set of documents) entitled Guide du Conseille, (Advisor's Manual).
-Preparation and submission of Diagnostic Assessment/Action Plan reports to 26
Overall, the heads of these enterprises are satisfied with the services provided, but would
have to overcome financial problems in order to implement their action plans.
In this regard, it should be pointed out that a sample of three Diagnostic
Assessment/Action Plan reports was forwarded to Mr. Francois Ettori, a World Bank Division
Chief, at his request.
A list of the main problems identified in the diagnostic assessments, together with proposed
solutions, is attached to this document (see Table).
-     Preparation of a Strategic Report showing the key lessons learned from the Pilot
Program and presenting a strategy for revitalizing and increasing the efficiency of API's
"Assistance" function.
Preparation of a vyijd  explaining the various phases of the Program.
5.    Recommendations
In light of the above results, the following actions should be taken:
mobilize financing on a multilateral and/or bilateral basis, to enable API to provide
similar training for other staff members and further consolidate the expertise of the
existing team of advisors;



ANNEX
Page 5 of 9
4
provide financing for the implementation of action plans; in this regard, due
consideration should be given to bodies such as FOPROMAT (now operational),
the National Quality Plan, FODEC, the Programme de mise a niveau (Upgrading
Program), etc.
continue to raise the consciousness of promoters so that they will no longer be
"assistance-dependent" and will instead take charge of their own affairs, first and
foremost using their own resources, with API providing any necessary support and
guidance.



ANNEX
Page 6 of 9
5
WORLD BANK LOAN 2911-TUN
EQUIPMENT
Component Bi of Loan 2911-TUN (the Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry
Development Project) included US$240,000 for equipment. The total amount was disbursed over
the following three phases:
First Phase:
Installation of the Single Window (1990; D 20,811.924).
Second Phase:
Procurement of computer hardware and office and reprographic equipment (1991; D
159,771.031).
Third Phase:
Procurement of computer hardware and reprographic equipment (1993; D 69,106.916).
For this project, the World Bank reimbursed a total of D 249,689.871, i.e. an amount
equivalent to US$240,000.



ANNEX
Page 7 of 9
6
AGENCE DE PROMOTION DE L' INDUSTRIE,
DIRECTION CENTRALE DE L' ASSISTANCE
CH.N/M.O/
PILOT PROGRAM: DIAGNOSTIC ASSESSMENTS
AND ADVICE FOR SMIs
Sector                     No. of SMIs    Regions                No. of SMIs
(Gouvernorats)
Electrical/Mechanical      9               Tunis                 6
Ariana               5
Constr. materials,         4               Ben Arous            2
ceramics, glass                            Bizerte              4
Chemical                   2               Nabeul                1
Le Kef               I
Textiles and leather       4               Kasserine             1
Mahdia               1
Misc.                      6               Sfax                 2
Gabes                2
Agri-food                  1               Tataouine             I
TOTAL                      26              TOTAL                 26
AVERAGES FOR THE 26 SMIs
Capital investment:   Turnover:       Percentage of turnover    No. of employees:
relating to exports:
D 1,380,000          D 1,520.000      20%                       56



ANNEX
Page 8 of 9
7
DIAGNOSTIC ASSESSMENTS OF THE 26 SMIs:
MAIN PROBLEMS AND PROPOSED SOLUTIONS
PROBLEMS                                 SOLUTIONS
_                       ~~~~~PROD UCTION
*  Low management-staff              *     Introduction of a Computer-
ratios.                                 Aided Production System.
*     Lack of awareness of costs.       0     Establishment of a technical
*     Poor stock management.                  database.
*     Outworn or inadequate             *     Establishment of a strategic
equipment.                              production planning system.
*     Inadequate quality control.       *     Rationalization of production
*     Inadequate knowledge of                 flows.
manufacturing methods.           *      Increases in management-staff
*     Installed capacity                      ratios.
underutilized.                   *      Introduction of technical audits.
*     Data sheets not used or not       *     Establishment of a plan for
available.                              corrective and preventive
*     Inadequate maintenance                  maintenance.
management.                      *      Systematization and
*     Poor equipment layout.                  management of quality.
*     Reorganization of production
lines.
*     Replacement of equipment.
ORGANIZATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES
*     Personnel inadequately            *     Preparation of operational
qualified.                              manuals.
*     Poor organizational               *     Organization and management
structures.                             of the human resource function.
*     Low motivation of                 *     Establishment of clear and
personnel.                              explicit organization charts.
*     Training and retraining of
personnel.
*     Profit sharing.
*     Computerization of
management.



ANNEX
Page 9 of 9
8
THE BUSINESS FUNCTION
*     Ignorance of the market.
*     Underdiversified client          *      Adoption of a new, more
portfolios.                            aggressive business approach,
*     Understaffed commercial                 with more explicit
services.                              presentations.
*     Inadequate product               *      Revised business policy and
promotion; approach                    diversification of products.
insufficiently aggressive.       *     Study of distribution channels
*     Lack of business objectives.            and establishment of sales
outlets.
*     Product development.
THE FINANCIAL FUNCTION
*     Financial disequilibrium.        *      Injection of financing.
*     Lack of management               *      Debt consolidation.
allotments.                      *     Management loans.
*     Inadequate cash flow.            *      Capital increases.
*     Lack of cost accounting.         *      Introduction of management
*     Considerable financial                 tools: i.e. cost accounting,
expenses.                              budgeting, performance charts,
*     Debt overload.                          etc.
*     Fixed assets financed
through short-term loans.









IMA(i GNG
R.ep-ort No:       154710
Type: ICE,



