Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2911 TUN
              (Second Small and Medium Scale Industry
                       Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated April 13, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 13,  1988, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part A of the Project  will  be carried out by Banque de
Developpement Economique de  Tunisie  (BDET),  Banque du Sud (BS),
Banque  de  Tunisie  (BT),  Banque   de  Tunisie  et  des  Emirats
d'Investissement (BTEI)  and  Societe  Tunisienne  de Banque (STB)
(each  hereinafter  sometimes  called  a  Participating  Bank  or,
collectively, the Participating Banks) with the Borrower's assist-
ance and, as  part  of  such  assistance,  the  Borrower will make
available to the Participating Banks  part  of the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends  to  contract  from  the Kingdom of
Belgium a grant (the  Belgian  Grant)  in  an amount equivalent to
Page  2
approximately 1,247,000 dollars to assist in financing Part B.2 of
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in an agreement
(the Belgian  Grant  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into between the
Borrower and the Kingdom of Belgium; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
ment of even date herewith  between the Bank and the Participating
Banks;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  5  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "API" means Agence  de  Promotion de l'Industrie, estab-
lished by the Borrower's law No. 87-50 of August 2, 1987;
     (b)  "API Grant Agreement" means  the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and API pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (c)  "BCT" means Banque Centrale de Tunisie, the central bank
of the Borrower  established  by  law  No.  58-90 of September 19,
1958, of the Borrower, as amended and completed from time to time;
     (d)  "Dinar" or  the  sign  "TD"  means  the  currency of the
Borrower;
     (e)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal year which
starts on January 1 and ends on December 31;
     (f)  "free-limit Sub-loan or Investment"  means either a Sub-
loan, or an Investment, or  a Sub-loan and an Investment combined:
(i)  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  the  equivalent of
$400,000 at constant December  1987  value;  and (ii) made or pro-
posed to be made by a  Participating Bank, once said Bank has made
Sub-loans and Investments in an  aggregate  amount of at least the
equivalent of $1,000,000.
     (g)  "Investment" means an investment  other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made  by a Participating Bank in an Invest-
ment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of
the proceeds of the Loan  relent  to said Participating Bank under
the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  between  the  Borrower  and said
Participating Bank;
     (h)  "Investment Enterprise" means  an  enterprise to which a
Participating Bank proposes to make  or  has made a Sub-loan or in
which it proposes to make or has made an Investment;
     (i)  "Investment Project" means  a  specific development pro-
ject to be carried out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment;
     (j)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Participating Banks of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
Page  3
     (k)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Statement of Policy  of  BDET"  means  the statement of
lending and investment policy approved by the directors of BDET on
July 4, 1965, as amended from time to time;
     (m)  "Statement of Policy  of  BTEI"  means  the statement of
lending and investment policy approved by the directors of BTEI on
January 11, 1983, as amended from time to time;
     (n)  "Statements of Policy" means  the Statement of Policy of
BDET and the Statement of Policy of BTEI;
     (o)  "Statutes of  BDET"  means  the  statutes  of BDET dated
May 4, 1959, as amended from time to time;
     (p)  "Statutes  of  BS"  means   the  statutes  of  BS  dated
August 10, 1968, as amended from time to time;
     (q)  "Statutes of BT" means the  statutes of BT dated Septem-
ber 23, 1984, as amended from time to time;
     (r)  "Statutes of  BTEI"  means  the  statutes  of BTEI dated
April 27, 1982, as amended from time to time;
     (s)  "Statutes of STB" means the statutes of STB dated Decem-
ber 12, 1956, as amended from time to time;
     (t)  "Statutes" means the Statutes  of  BDET, the Statutes of
BS, the Statutes of BT, the  Statutes of BTEI, and the Statutes of
STB;
     (u)  "Sub-loan" means a  loan  made  or  proposed  to be made
by a Participating Bank to an Investment Enterprise for an Invest-
ment Project out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to said Parti-
cipating Bank  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement between the
Borrower and said Participating Bank;
     (v)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means  the agreements to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  each of the Participating
Banks pursuant to Section 3.02 of  this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
     (w)  "UTICA"  means  Union   Tunisienne  de  l'Industrie,  du
Commerce et de l'Artisanat,  a federation of employers established
in 1946; and
     (x)  "UTICA  Grant  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be
entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  UTICA  pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.04 of this Agreement, as  the same may be amended from time
to time.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in this Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty eight million
dollars ($28,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts  paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, amounts to be  paid) by the Participating Banks on
account of withdrawals made  by  an  Investment Enterprise under a
Sub-loan or Investment to  meet  the  reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the  Investment  Project in respect of which
the withdrawal from the  Loan  Account  is requested; and (ii) for
Page  4
expenditures made (or, if the Bank  shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part B.1 of the Project and to  be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in BCT on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Part  B.3  of  the Project with due
               diligence and  efficiency  and  in  conformity with
               appropriate financial and banking practices; and
         (ii)  without any limitation  or  restriction upon any of
               its other  obligations  under  this Loan Agreement,
               shall cause the  Participating  Banks to perform in
               accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Project
               Agreement all the  obligations of the Participating
               Banks therein set  forth,  and  shall cause API and
               UTICA to carry out  Part B.1 and B.2, respectively,
Page  5
               of the Project in accordance with the provisions of
               the  API  Grant  Agreement   and  the  UTICA  Grant
               Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources required for Part  B.3  of  the Project, or necessary or
appropriate to enable  the  Participating  Banks  to perform their
respective obligations under the  Project Agreement, and to enable
API and UTICA to  perform  their  obligations  under the API Grant
Agreement and the UTICA  Grant  Agreement, respectively, and shall
not take or permit to be  taken  any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     Section 3.02.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  onlend  to  each of
the Participating Banks  amounts  in  Dinars  up to the equivalent
of the following amounts:  $6,500,000  to  BDET, $6,000,000 to BS,
$5,000,000 to BT, $4,000,000 to  BTEI and $6,000,000 to STB, under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and each  Participating  Bank,  under  terms  and conditions which
shall have been approved by  the  Bank and which shall include the
principal terms and conditions  set  forth  in  Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, from time  to time and at least once
a year, review, jointly with  the Bank and the Participating Banks
the rate of interest paid  by  the Participating Banks to the Bor-
rower  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  and  the  rate of
interest paid by  Investment  Enterprises  to Participating Banks,
and, if necessary, adjust such  rates  to levels acceptable to the
Bank.
     (c)  Not later than December 31,  1989  or such other date as
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, and there-
after from time to time  but  at  least  once a year, the Borrower
shall, jointly with the  Bank  and the Participating Banks, review
the level of commitments  made  by  each Participating Bank out of
the proceeds of the  Loan  relent  to such Participating Bank pur-
suant to paragraph (a) of this Section, and, if necessary, reallo-
cate the uncommitted balances of  the  amounts so relent to one or
more other Participating Banks in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.03. For the purpose of carrying out Part B.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall enter  into a grant agreement with API
(the API Grant Agreement) under  which  it shall make available to
API, as a  grant,  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated to Cate-
gory (2) of the table set  forth  in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
under terms and conditions which  shall  have been approved by the
Bank and which shall  include  the  principal terms and conditions
set forth in Schedule 6, Part I of this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out Part B.2 of the
Project the Borrower shall enter into a grant agreement with UTICA
(the UTICA Grant Agreement) under which it shall make available to
UTICA, as a grant, the equivalent of approximately 975,000 dollars
under terms and conditions which  shall  have been approved by the
Bank and which shall  include  the  principal terms and conditions
set forth in Schedule 6, Part II of this Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall  exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements,  the  API  Grant Agreement and the
UTICA Grant Agreement in such  manner  as to protect the interests
of the Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or  waive  any  of  said agreements or any
provision thereof.
     Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections  9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules,  records and reports and  main-
tenance, respectively) in respect of  Part  A of the Project shall
Page  6
be carried out by  the  respective Participating Banks pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section  3.07.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
September 30, 1988, or  such  later  date  as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank,  furnish to the Bank for review
and comment, the study  and  recommendations  on the operations of
the Borrower's Fonds  de  Promotion  et de Decentralisation Indus-
trielle, carried out  pursuant  to  Part  B.3  of the Project; and
(b) thereafter  take  all  measures  necessary  to  implement said
recommendations in accordance  with  a  time  schedule agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank during said review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Borrower  shall  maintain or cause BCT
and API to  maintain  separate  records  and  accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with  sound  accounting practices the opera-
tions of BCT in connection  with  the  Special Account, as well as
the resources and expenditures of API in respect of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year the  report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  reimburse  BDET for
Page  7
cumulative foreign exchange  losses  incurred  by  BDET: (i) up to
December 31, 1987 and  not  previously  reimbursed by the Borrower
either directly or indirectly,  not  later than December 31, 1989;
and (ii) in the  period  between  January  1,  1988 and the imple-
mentation of a  system  of  protection  against  exchange risks on
foreign borrowings, acceptable to the  Bank, not later than Decem-
ber 31 of the second year  following the year in which said losses
were incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes  of  this  Section  and of Section 6.01
(c) of this Agreement,  "cumulative foreign exchange losses" shall
mean: (i) all of BDET's  losses  on principal and interest result-
ing, directly or indirectly, from  changes in the rate of exchange
between the Dinar and the  foreign  currency or currencies used in
BDET's operations;  and  (ii)  all  costs  of  borrowings to cover
BDET's losses referred to in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take into account the Sub-
loans  and  Investments  made  by  a  Participating  Bank  for the
purpose of calculating  for  such  Participating Bank BCT's ratios
of priority activities  financing,  established  pursuant to BCT's
circular No. 86-30 of September 26, 1986.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A Participating Bank shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and such Particpating Bank.
     (b)  API or UTICA shall  have  failed  to  perform any of its
respective obligations under the API  Grant Agreement or the UTICA
Grant Agreement, respectively.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that a Participating Bank
will be able to perform  its  obligations under the Project Agree-
ment or the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  between the Borrower and
such Participating Bank.
     (d)  The Statutes of a Participating Bank or the Statement of
Policy of BDET or BTEI  shall  have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of a Participating Bank  to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (e)  Law No. 87-51  of  August  2,  1987,  of the Borrower on
Industrial Investments  or  BCT's  circular  No.  86-30 of Septem-
ber 26,  1986,  shall  have  been  amended,  suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of a Participating Bank  to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (f)  The Borrower  or  any  other  authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have  taken  any  action  for  the  dissolution or dis-
establishment of a Participating Bank or for the suspension of its
operations.
     (g) (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
               right of the Borrower  to  withdraw the proceeds of
               the Belgian  Grant  made  to  the  Borrower for the
               financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
               cancelled or terminated in  whole  or in part, pur-
               suant to the terms of the Belgian Grant Agreement.
        (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
Page  8
               the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
               termination is not  caused  by  the  failure of the
               Borrower to perform  any  of  its obligations under
               such agreement;  and  (B)  adequate  funds  for the
               Project are available  to  the  Borrower from other
               sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified  in  paragraphs  (b) through (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and each Participating Bank;
     (b)  the API Grant  Agreement  and  the UTICA Grant Agreement
have been executed on behalf  of  the  Borrower and API and UTICA,
respectively;
     (c)  the Borrower shall have reimbursed  BDET in an amount of
at least  fifteen  million  Dinars  for  BDET's cumulative foreign
exchange losses as defined in  Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement;
and
     (d)  the Belgian Grant Agreement  shall have become effective
or the Borrower establishes to  the  satisfaction of the Bank that
adequate funds for Part B.2  of  the  Project are available to the
Borrower from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Bank:
     (a)  the Project Agreement has  been duly authorized or rati-
fied by each Participating Bank,  and is legally binding upon each
Participating Bank in accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by the  Borrower  and  each Participating Bank and are
legally binding upon the  Borrower  and each Participating Bank in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Planning  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
Page  9
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere du Plan
          Place Ali Zouaoui
          Tunis
          Republic of Tunisia
                                              Telex:
                                                 MIPLAN 15117 TUN
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                    By /s/ Habib Ben Yahia
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans and              27,500,000
     Investments:
     (a)  works                                60%
Page  10
     (b)  goods                                100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               70% of local
                                               expenditures
(2)  Technical
     assistance for
     Part B.1 of the
     Project:
     (a)  goods                    160,000     100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               70% of local
                                               expenditures
     (b)  consultants'             240,000     100% of foreign
          services                             expenditures and
                                               75% of local
                                               expenditures
     (c)  training                 100,000     100% of foreign
                                               expenditures
                                __________
          TOTAL                 28,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  works or goods under a  Sub-loan or an Investment unless
the Sub-loan or Investment  has  been  made in accordance with the
procedures and terms and  conditions  set  forth or referred to in
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (c)  Category (2) unless API  shall  have employed the multi-
disciplinary engineer referred to in  paragraph I.3 of Schedule 6,
to this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the  Project  is  to  assist the Borrower in
furthering the efficient  development  and rehabilitation of small
and  medium  scale  industrial  enterprises  through  economically
viable and financially sound investments and restructuring plans.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Provision by  the  Participating  Banks  of  Sub-loans to and
Investments in Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects.
Part B:
Page  11
1.   Provision to API of  training  for  its staff and of consult-
ants' services and computer equipment,  in  order to enable API to
assist prospective  entrepreneurs  in  formulating  new  small and
medium scale industrial projects.
2.   Provision by UTICA of assistance to established entrepreneurs
to solve management,  production  and financial planning questions
in their small and medium scale industries.
3.   Carrying out a  study  of  the  management  and operations of
the Borrower's Fonds  de  Promotion  et de Decentralisation Indus-
trielles.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning September 15, 1992
     through   September 15, 2004                  1,075,000
On   March 15, 2005                                1,125,000
_____________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
Page  12
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to 2,500,000 dollars  to  be  withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible expen-
ditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank  shall,  on behalf of the Bor-
rower, withdraw from the Loan  Account  and deposit in the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from  the Loan Account under the eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account  in  accordance with the pro-
               visions of Article V  of the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
Page  13
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                Modifications of General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     1.   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     2.   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
               "21. The term  'Project  Agreement' has the meaning
         set forth in paragraph  (j)  of  Section 1.02 of the Loan
         Agreement."
     3.  The words "the Bank  may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right  of  the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect  to  such  amount.  Upon  the  giving of such
notice, such amount to the Loan  shall be cancelled." set forth in
the end of Section 6.03  are  deleted and the following is substi-
tuted therefor:
              "or (f) by the  date  specified in paragraph II.4 of
         Schedule 2 to the  Project  Agreement, no applications or
         requests permitted under  paragraph  II.3  of said Sched-
         ule 2 shall have been received  by the Bank in respect of
         any portion of  the  Loan,  or  having  been so received,
         shall have been denied,  the  Bank  may, by notice to the
         Borrower, terminate the right to submit such applications
         or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account,
         as the case may be,  with  respect to such amount or por-
         tion of the Loan.  Upon  the  giving of such notice, such
         amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 6
                Principal Terms and Conditions of
                      the API Grant Agreement
                   and the UTICA Grant Agreement
I.   API Grant Agreement
1.   API shall carry out Part  B.1  of  the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and  in conformity with appropriate financial
and investment practices.
Page  14
2.   API  shall  strengthen  its  promotional  activities  to help
entrepreneurs with new investments through:
         -    the provision of assistance to prospective entrepre-
              neurs with  identification  of project opportunities
              and formulation of projects;
         -    the preparation of  model  feasibility report stand-
              ards for the use of prospective entrepreneurs;
         -    the provision of  advice  to the Participating Banks
              at their request  on  the  economic feasibility of a
              proposed Investment Project;
         -    the collection and  analysis  of  data  on small and
              medium scale industries in Tunisia; and
         -    the provision  of  information  on macroeconomic and
              regulatory  matters,  upon  request  by  the general
              public.
3.   API shall employ a  multidisciplinary engineer and short-term
consultants for feasibility and  market studies, identification of
subcontracting  opportunities,  promotional  work  and engineering
services. The qualifications, experience  and terms and conditions
of employment of such engineer  and consultants shall be satisfac-
tory to the Borrower and  the  Bank  and they shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  The  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
4.   API shall cause its staff to attend training seminars for the
evaluation of projects and sectoral analysis. API shall strengthen
its activities for  the  promotion  of industrial development. API
shall procure about  six  personal  computers and related software
and twenty-seven terminals and  various transmission and reproduc-
tion equipment, under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligi-
ble under the Guidelines for  Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the  Bank  in  May  1985, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
5.   At least once a year,  API  shall  prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the Bank a report on its promotional activities.
II.  UTICA Grant Agreement
1.   UTICA shall carry out Part B.2  of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and  in conformity with appropriate financial
and management practices.
2.   UTICA shall strengthen  its  services  to establish small and
medium scale industries notably by providing:
         -    diagnostic assessments of overall operations; and
         -    analysis of specific problems.
3.   UTICA shall  train  about  20  persons  to  provide advice on
finance,  production  management,  administration,  marketing  and
management to small and medium scale industries.
4.   UTICA shall employ a  specialist in management consulting for
small and medium  scale  enterprises, a multidisciplinary engineer
specializing in production and organization and short-term manage-
ment and marketing consultants. The qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions  of  employment  of such specialist, engineer
and consultants shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower and the
Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 7
Page  15
                  Principal Terms and Conditions
                   of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
     The Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  shall  provide, inter alia,
that:
1.   The Borrower shall onlend to  each of the Participating Banks
amounts in Dinars up to  the  equivalent of the following amounts:
$6,500,000 to BDET, $6,000,000 to BS, $5,000,000 to BT, $4,000,000
to BTEI and $6,000,000 to STB out of the proceeds of the Loan.
2.   If the first review carried  out pursuant to Section 3.02 (c)
of this Agreement  indicates  that  a  Participating  Bank has not
committed amounts equivalent  to  at  least  $2,000,000 under Sub-
loans or Investments, the Borrower may reallocate part or whole of
the uncommitted balance  of  the  original  amount,  relent by the
Borrower to that Participating Bank,  to one or more Participating
Banks who have reached  a  level  of  commitments equivalent to at
least $2,000,000.
3.   If a subsequent review  carried  out pursuant to Section 3.02
(c) of this Agreement indicates  that a Participating Bank may not
be able to commit the full amount onlent to it by the Borrower out
of the Loan, the Borrower and that Participating Bank may agree to
reallocate part or whole of the uncommitted balance of the initial
amount, onlent by the Borrower  to that Participating Bank, to one
or more Participating  Banks  who  are  likely  to commit the full
amount so onlent to them.
4.   Each Participating  Bank  shall  repay  to  the  Borrower the
equivalent in Dinars (such equivalent  to  be determined as of the
date or the respective dates  of  withdrawal from the Loan Account
or payment out of the  Special  Account)  of the value of the cur-
rency or currencies  so  withdrawn  or  paid  out for expenditures
disbursed for under Sub-loans or Investments by such Participating
Bank: (a) under Sub-loans, over  a  period not exceeding 11 years,
including a grace period not  exceeding 3 years, and in accordance
with an amortization schedule which shall conform in relevant part
substantially to the  aggregated amortization schedules applicable
to the Sub-loans made  by  such  Participating Bank; and (b) under
Investments, over a period of  11  years, including a grace period
of 3 years.
5.   Each Participating Bank  shall  pay  the equivalent in Dinars
(such equivalent to be determined as of the date of payment by the
Borrower to the  Bank)  of  the  commitment  charge payable by the
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to  Section 3.02 of the General Con-
ditions and Section  2.04  of  this  Agreement  in  respect of the
unwithdrawn amount of the  Loan  onlent  to  it under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
6.   Until such time  as  the  Borrower  shall  have notified each
Participating Bank that  a  new  system  of protection against ex-
change risks on the Borrower's  foreign borrowings has been put in
place,  each  Participating  Bank  shall  pay  to  the  Borrower's
Exchange Risk Equalization Fund a  fee  at the rate of one percent
(1%) on the principal amounts of the Loan onlent to it, payable on
the date of withdrawal of  such  amounts  from the Loan Account or
payment out of the Special  Account, to reimburse the Borrower for
the foreign exchange risk  borne  by  the Borrower pursuant to the
Loan Agreement.
7.   Each Participating  Bank  shall  pay  interest  on the amount
onlent to it under a Subsidiary  Loan Agreement at a rate equal to
the rate of interest  applicable  to  the Loan pursuant to Section
2.05 of this Agreement  on  the  date of this Agreement, provided,
however, that the Borrower  and  the Participating Banks may agree
to adjust said interest rate to  a level acceptable to the Bank if
a review pursuant to Section  3.02 (b) of this Agreement indicates
that:
     (a) the interest  rate  paid  by  the  Participating Banks to
Page  16
the Borrower is lower than the  interest rate paid by the Borrower
to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement; or
     (b) the interest  rate  paid  by  the  Participating Banks to
the Borrower  and  that  paid  by  the  Investment  Enterprises to
Participating Banks do not allow  the Participating Banks to cover
their operating costs, adequately fund their bad debt reserves and
make a reasonable profit.
     Unless the Borrower and  the Participating Banks shall other-
wise agree:
     (a) the adjusted interest rate  shall  be applied only to the
amounts of the Loan not  committed  under a Sub-loan or Investment
at the time the interest rate is adjusted; and
     (b) the interest rate paid by  the Participating Banks to the
Borrower shall not be  lower  than  the  interest rate paid by the
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
8.   Each Participating Bank shall  take  such  action as shall be
necessary or appropriate on  its  part  to  enable the Borrower to
perform its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
