Page  1
Mr. Mohamed Bouaouaja
President-directeur general
1, rue de la Monnaie
Tunis
Republic of Tunis
          Re: Loan No. 2911 TUN
              (Second Small and Medium Scale
              Industry Development Project)
              Amendment to Loan and Project Agreement
Dear Sir:
     We refer to the loan agreement entered into between the
Republic of Tunisia (the Borrower) and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated April 13, 1988 (the
Loan Agreement), and to the project agreement entered into and
between the Bank and each of Banque de Developpement Economique de
Tunisie, Banque du Sud, Banque de Tunisie, Banque de Tunisie et des
Emirats d'investissement and Societe Tunisienne de Banque
(collectively the e Participating Banks) of even date therewith (the
Project Agreement), both in respect of the above-referenced Project.
Please also refer to the requests submitted last September and
recently confirmed by the Participating Banks and Agence de
Promotion de l'Industrie (API) that ceilings for investments,
subloans and cost per job created be raised to reflect the
experience gathered since the inception of this Project, and that
the purpose of the API technical assistance component be redefined
to be consistent with its new role.
     We are pleased to inform you that the Bank has agreed to the
above requests.  The purpose of this letter is to amend the relevant
provisions of the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement to reflect
the requests submitted. Therefor, the Loan Agreement and Project
Agreement are hereby amended as follows:
I - Loan Agreement
1.   Category (2) in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement shall read as follows:
(2) Technical
    assistance for
    Part B.1 of the
    Project:
    (a) goods            240,000             100% of foreign
                                             expenditures and
                                             70% of local
                                             expenditures
    (b) consultants      150,000             100% of foreign
        services                             expenditures and
                                             75% of local
                                             expenditures
    (c) training         110,000             100% of foreign
2.   Part B(1) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement shall read as
follows:
"Provision of API of training for its staff, consultants' services
and computer equipment, in order to enable API to establish the
"Investors' Full Service Teller Booth" and the "National Exchange
for Sub-contracting", and to strengthen its overall investment
promotion capabilities.
II - Project Agreement
1.   Paragraph (a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement shall
Page  2
read as follows:
"Sub-loans or Investments shall be made for: (i) the establishment
of new Investment Enterprises whose total investments do not exceed
two million Dinars at constant December 1987 value, including
working capital funds; or (ii) the expansion, modernization,
diversification, rehabilitation and restructuring of existing
Investment Enterprises whose total investments do not exceed three
million three hundred thousand Dinars at constant December 1987
value, including supplementary working capital funds and net fixed
assets;"
2.   In paragraphs (d) and (e) of schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement, the figure "40,,, Dinars" replaces the figure "30,000
Dinars".
3.   Paragraph 2 in Chapter III of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement shall read as follows:
"Unless the Bank and Borrower shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans for
or Investments in an Investment project shall not in the aggregate
exceed 1.1 million dollars equivalent for the same Investment
Project.  Amounts committed by a Participating Bank for all its
Investments shall not in the aggregate exceed 800,000 dollars
equivalent."
     Please confirm your respective agreements to the foregoing
amendments by signing, dating and returning to us the attached
duplicate original of this amendment letter.  A signed original of
this amendment is enclosed for each of your records.
     We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due
consideration, has agreed to the above request.  Accordingly, the
Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
     The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as
follows:
                                   Very truly yours,
                                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                      Kemal Dervis
                              Director, Country Department II
                        Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE BANQUE
By /s/ Ali Majoul - D.G.A.
Date: ______________________
