Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18047
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.1 MILLION (US$ 50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF C6TE D'IVOIRE
FORA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROGRAM
June 23, 1998
Agriculture III
Country Department 11
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1998)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = 608.54 CFAF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA/ACDI          Canadian International Development Agency (Agence Canadienne
de Developpement Internationale)
ADB                African Development Bank (Banque Afticaing de Diveloppement)
AFD                French Development Agency (Agence Franfaise de
Diveloppement)
AMRT               Monthly Technology Reviews
ANADER             National Rural Development Agency (Agence Nationale d'Appui
au Diveloppement Rural)
CGIAR              Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CIRES              Ivorian Center for Social and Economic Development (Centre
Ivoirien de Recherche Economique et Soc ale)
CIRT               Ivorian Center for Technological Research (Centre Ivoirien de
Recherche Technologique)
CNRA               National Agricultural Research Center (Centre National de
Recherche Agronomique)
CORAF              West and Central Africa Agricultural Research Coordination
Committee (C,onfirence des Responsables de Jfecherche Agricole
en Afrique de l 'Ouest et du Centre)
RRN                Rural Radio Nevwork
CTR                Regional Technical Committee (Comitis Techniques Rigionaux)
DOPAC          ,   Directorate for Cooperatives
ESDAR              Agricultural Research Extension Group
EU                 European Union (Union Europeenne)
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization
EDF/FED            Eurppean Development Fund (Fond Europeen de
Developpement)
FOS                Farmers' Organizations Specialist
'Vice President   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director   Shigeo Katsu
Sector Manager   Jean-Paul Chauisse
Task Team Leader   Christian Fauliau



GTZ               German Technical Cooperative Agency (Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit)
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDEFOR            Forest Institute (Institut des Forets)
IDESSA            Savannah Institute (Institut des Savanes)
IPM               Integrated Pest Management Program
ISPEC             Institute for the Promotion of Cooperative Education (Institut
Superieur pour la Promotion de l 'Education Cooperative) - -
MESRIT            Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Technology (Ministere
de 1 'Enseignement Superieur, de la Recherche et de l 'Innovation
Technologique)
MINAGRA           Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (Ministere de
l 'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales)
MINICOM           Ministry of Communications
NARS              National Agricultural Research System
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
NPV               Net Present Value
OPA               Agricultural Cooperative Movement (Organisations
Professionnelles Agricoles)
PACIPE            European Union Financed Project
PARC              Pan African Rinderpest Campaign
PNAE              National Agricultural and Environment Project
PNASA             National Agricultural Services Project (Projet National d'Appui aux
Services Agricoles)
PNGTER            Rural Land Management and Infrastruture Development Project
PO                Observation Points (Point d'Observations)
PVA               Agricultural Extension Project (Projet de Vulgarisation Agricolej
PVRHSA            Agricultural Sector Capacity Building Support Project
RRL               Local Rural Radio
SAR               Adaptive Research System Site (Site d'Adaptation a la
Recherche Systeme)
SLM               Sustainable Land Management Program
SOCODEVI          Ivorian Development Cooperative Agency (Societe Cooperative
de Developpement Ivoirien)
SPAAR             Special Program for African Agricultural Research
STNRRA            National Technical Secretariat in Charge of Agricultural
Research Restructuration (Secretariat Technique National
Charge de la Restructuration de la Recherche Agronomique)



Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
Second National Agricultural Services Support Project
Table of Contents
A. Project Development Objective ...................................................................1
1. Project development objective and key perfornance indicators ...........................                                    1
B. Strategic Context                                   .........................................................                           1
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the Program ..............................................                            1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .........................................................                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Program   and strategic choices .....................                                  2
C. Project Description  Summary ...................................................................3
1. Project components ...................................................................3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project .............................                                 5
3. Benefits and target population                                                 .6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................I....                         7
D. Project Rationale ...................................................................                                                   10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                                         .          .              10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies 1......                                           I 1
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed Project design                                         .         .              11
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership ...........................................                                 12
5. Value added of Bank support ..............................................................                                  12
E. Project Analyses ....................................................................          .                                        13
1. Economic ....................................................................                                               13
2. Financial ....................................................................                                              13
3. Technical ....................................................................                                              14
4. Institutional ........                                                                                                       15
5. Social ....................................................................                                                  15
6. Environmental Assessment ....................................................................                                15
7. Participatory approach ....................................................................                                 16
F. Sustainability and Risks ....................................................................                                           17
1. Sustainability ....................................................................                                         17
2. Critical risks ....................................................................                                          18
3. Possible controversial aspects ....................................................................                          19
G. Main  Credit Conditions ....................................................................                                            19
1. Assurances Obtained at Negotiations ....................................................................                     19
2. Second Phase Trigger ....................................................................                                   20
3. Third Phase Trigger ....................................................................                                    21



H. Project Preparation  and  Processing ....................................................................                                     22
I. Compliance with  Bank Policies ....................................................................                                           22
ANNEXES
Annex   1:   Project Design  Summary ....................................................................                           23
Annex  2:   Detailed Project Description ....................................................................                       27
Annex  3:   Phase I Costs ....................................................................                                      33
Annex  4:   Economic and Financial Analysis ..............................................................    37
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                                        .           .             44
Annex  6:   Project Processing  Schedule ....................................................................                       50
Annex  7:   Documents in the Project File .............................. -.                                                          51
Annex  8:   Policy Note .............................................................                                                54
Annex  9:   Statement of Loans and Credits .............................................................                             69
Annex  10:  Country  at a Glance .............................................................                                       71
MAP No. IBRD 29635



C6te d'lvoire
Second National Agricultural Services Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Date: June 16, 1998                                        Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Christian Fauliau
Country Manager/Director: Shigeo Katsu                     Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Paul Chausse
Program ID: 37588            Sector: Agriculture           Program Objective Category: PSD/ESD/PR
Lending Instrument: APL                                    Program of Targeted Intervention:       [Xl Yes    []   No
Program Financing Data (US$ million):
Source                                Government    Beneficiaries    Cofinanciers          IDA                 Total
Phase I                                   88.6             56.1            7.4             50.0            - - 202.0
Phase II                                  60.0             75.0           tbd              65.0                200.0
Phase III                                 66.0             99.0           tbd              35.0                200.0
Total Program Costs                      214.6            230.1            7.4            150.01               602.0
Project Financing Data                [   Loan       [1]  Credit         [     Guarantee         [    Other [Specify]
Amount: SDR  million (US$ 50.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: [/] Multicurrency         [  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):    10               [] Standard variable     [] Fixed         []LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:       40
Commitment fee:          0.5%
Service charge:          0.75%
Project Financing Data (US$ million):
Source                                      Local          Foreign                  Total
Government                                   87.5              1.1                   88.6
IDA                                          21.5            28.5                    50.0
IFAD                                          0.5             0.6                     1.1
European Union                                5.3              -                      5.3
French Cooperation                            0.5             0.5                     1.0
Farmers organizations                        36.7            19.4                    56.1
TOTAL                                       151.9            50.1                   202.0
Borrower: Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Communication, National Agricultural Research Center (CNRA),
National Rural Development Support Agency (ANADER)
Estimated disbursements for First Phase (FY/US$ million):       1999               2000              2001          2002
Annual                                 9.5                16.5              17.0          7.0
Cumulative                             9.5                26.0              43.0          50.0
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Authorization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                      [  Yes                                   [  No
Project implementation period: first phase 3 years Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/1998 Expected'closing date: 07/31/2001
1 Although there is expression of interest from the donors to financially support the Program's second and third phases, their final
commitment will not be secured until late in the implementation of the first phase. It has therefore been assumed that extemal financing
needs for those two phases will be met by IDA. Should other financing become available, IDA's contribution would be reduced
accordingly.



A. Program Development Objective
Program development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
1.    The objective of the National Agricultural Support Services Program  is to support sustainable
agricultural growth through sustained increases in farm-level productivity. To achieve this objective, the
Program will improve the relevance and cost-effectiveness of the national agricultural research and extension
system, and ensure its financial sustainability through institutional reforms aimed at transferring decision-
making on strategic and management issues, and an increasing share of the financing of this system, to
beneficiaries (farmers, farmers associations and other agricultural/agro-industrial investors). A core component
of this strategy, and of the proposed Program, will be the continued support to the emergenrce of efficient,
autonomous farmers' organizations.
2.    It is anticipated that achieving the Program's central institution/capacity-building objective will require
long-term support. It has therefore been designed to be implemented over 11 years in three phases: a first
phase of three years, followed by two four-year phases. This long-term Program will be supported through an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) Credit. The core objective of the first three-year phase is to firmly establish
responsive, cost-effective and autonomous agencies for agricultural research and extension services, largely
owned and managed as private sector entities by their beneficiaries. The objective of the second phase will be
to consolidate the achievements of the first phase to: strengthen the technical relevance and cost-effectiveness
of the services provided by the extension and research agencies; and in doing so, create an environment in
which the beneficiaries are willing to assume an increasing share of the costs of the services they receive. The
objective of the third phase will be to ensure the long-term sustainability of the system by completing the
transfer of financial responsibility for all investment and operating costs to the shareholders/clients of the
research and extension institutions. Benchmarks indicating the successful completion of each phase and
triggering the subsequent phase are detailed in Section C: Program and Project Description Summary, and
Annex 1, Table 1.
B. Strategic Context
Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Program (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: IDA/R97-108                  Date of latest CAS discussion: September 11, 1997
IFC/R97-1 78
(17007-IVC)
3.    Agriculture contributes about 28 percent to CMte d'Ivoire's GDP and employs over half the labor force.
More than 75 percent of CMte d'Ivoire's poor live in rural areas. Agriculture is therefore, and will continue to
be in the medium-to-long term, a major source of economic growth, and employment and income, in particular
for the poorest segment of the population. Agriculture and rural development are at the center of Governrnent's
economic and social development strategy and of IDA's CAS for C6te d'Ivoire. The proposed National
Agricultural Services Support Program will support this strategy by accelerating technological change and
generating sustained productivity increases in agriculture through autonomous and cost-effective agricultural
services (extension and research) institutions, that will be more responsive to the needs of their clients and more
accessible to rural poor, especially women, in terms of both geographical coverage and technical focus. By
strengthening farmers associations, the Program will foster their capacity to be effective partners of rural
development agents, including government, provide services to their members and promote private investments
in agriculture and related activities. Finally, building capacity in rural areas will foster improved governance
and have a positive influence on government's economic and social policies.



2
Main sector issues and Government strategy
4.    The economy of C6te d'Ivoire has responded positively to recent economic stabilization and structural
reforms, including the devaluation of the CFA Franc in 1994. Growth increased from 2.1 percent in 1994, to
about 7 percent in 1995-1996. In agriculture, growth has picked up from 0.4 percent in 1993-94 to 10 percent
and 5 percent in 1995 and 1996 respectively, spurred by the sector's renewed competitiveness and good
international prices for export crops. In the longer term, however, sustained growth in agriculture will depend
on productivity increases generated by technological changes and private investments. The recent macro-
economic reforms have improved the climate for private investment. The sector's taxation, explicit and
implicit, has been reduced, improving returns on investment. The land tenure regime is being clarified and
farmers rights made more secure. Investments in infrastructure and reductions of inefficiencies and rents in the
transport sector are improving access to markets and agricultural profitability. The most pressing constraints to
sustained agricultural growth is the low productivity of Ivorian agriculture, still largely based on traditional,
extensive cultivation techniques, and the continuing degradation of the sector's natural resource base.
5.    Low farmers' productivity (National Agricultural Services Project's Supervision Reports, Poverty
Assessment, 1997). Cote d'Ivoire's agriculture is largely based on smallholder farms. Most farmers still use
traditional, extensive techniques that minimize risk instead of optimizing value added. They rely mostly on
human energy and simple tools. Animal traction and mechanic tools are still uncommon except in cotton-
growing areas. Use of modem inputs is low. The productivity of current farming practices, and the incomes
they generate, is low. It is improving slowly, in spite of the considerable margin of progress that well-known
technologies will permit. Wide-spread technology-induced productivity gains are possible in the short-to-
medium term through better dissemination of existing technologies. Continued technological change will,
however, require increased investments in agricultural research, particularly adaptive research, and a more
efficient dissemination system. This is one of the main challenges facing the sector and the Government in the
coming years.
6.    Degradation of natural resources (First Forestry Sector Project, Supervision Reports, White Paper on
Environment 1996). The persistence of traditional, extensive farming systems, combined with high population
growth, presents a major threat to the country's natural resource base. The remaining forests are being
degraded at an alarming rate in spite of Government's efforts to contain agricultural encroachment. With the
fallow period declining under the minimum required to reconstitute soil fertility, pocr farmers are mining
already fragile soils and decreasing the productive potential of their only asset. The Government is aware of the
urgency of these issues. Following a First Forestry Sector Project, a National Forestry Program is under
preparation to assist in the protection and conservation of the remaining natural forests and provide support for
biodiversity protection. Reforms of the land/resource tenure legal framework are underway to provide
incentives to the rural populations for better conserving natural resources, and a major initiative is being
launched with IDA's assistance (PNGTER) to empower local communities to manage their natural resource
base and improve small scale rural infrastructure. However, farmers, and in particular poor farmers, need well
suited, and affordable technologies that will permit to increase the productivity of land and therefore conserve
the productive potential of their natural resource base.
Sector issues to be addressed by the Program and strategic choices
7.    The National Agricultural Services Project (Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles, PNASA,
Cr. 2636-Cl) directly preceded the proposed Program and aimed at (i) streamlining and decentralizing
agricultural services, (ii) enhancing the role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (Ministere de
l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales, MINAGRA) in policy-making and monitoring of agricultural
development; and (iii) increasing farmers' role in the policy-making process. PNASA succeeded in



3
streamlining the agricultural services and initiating a process of farners' empowernent, but largely failed to
strengthen MINAGRA. Three former agricultural extension agencies were merged into a single, national
extension agency the National Rural Development Agency (Agence Nationale d'Appui au Developpement
Rural, ANADER). About 2,500 staff were retrenched in this process, and the remaining, carefully selected staff
received intensive training. Linkages with research were strengthened. A process of decentralization was also
initiated within ANADER to give more operational decision-making power to field-level staff. It needs to be
continued, and the linkage between extension and research must be improved
8.    This is the objective of the proposed National Agricultural Services Support Program. The Program
will make the agricultural research and extension system demand driven by giving farmers' organizations a
major say in its management. It will also increase farmers' incomes, and protect the environment, by
introducing better farming practices. The central objective of the Program's first phase (the project) will be to
firmly establish ANADER and the National Center for Agricultural Research (Centre National de Recherche
Agronomique, CNRA) as autonomous agencies in which farmers have a major stake in the decision making
process, share capital and funding of operating costs. This will be done in accordance with the new law
(September 1997) for companies with a minority of State participatiori. In December 1997, a national forum of
farmers organizations endorsed the strategy and the proposed Program. By the end of the first phase,
agricultural research and extension are expected to be managed by the beneficiaries. Farmers will actively
participate in the setting of priorities for the technical program of research and agricultural services, and the
public resources allocated to support research and agricultural services will increasingly be replaced by
beneficiaries' contribution.
C. Project Description Summary
9.    The proposed operation (the project) will be the first three-year phase of the long-term Program (11
years). The restructuring of ANADER and the establishment of CNRA will be completed during the first three-
year phase. Support to the second and third (four-year) phases will be triggered by fully implementing the
necessary key institutional reforms. The components of the first phase are detailed in Annex 2 and summarized
below. The triggers for the second phase (years 4-7) and third phase (years 8-11) of the Program are
outlined in Section G and detailed in Annex 1, Table 1. The triggers for the third and last phase will be
further detailed during the in-depth review of the first phase, which will re-appraise the detailed content
of the second and third phases.
First Phase Project Components (see Annex 2)
(a)    Support to ANADER (US$116.6 million or 58 percent of project costs). The Project will
strengthen adaptive research, extension and support farmers' organizations through (i)
institutional reforms of ANADER (streamlining and transfer of ownership and management
authority to farmers' representatives); and (ii) investments in human and physical infrastructure.
External resources will finance investments and capacity building through technical and
strategic training and best practices exchange.
(b)    Support to CNRA (US$61.3 million or 30 percent of project costs). The Project will support
a newly created national research institution (CNRA), decentralized, privately owned and
managed, like ANADER, by its main clients. The Project will also strengthen the Ministry of
Scientific Research for ensuring the integration of agricultural research in the necessary
strategic planning and coordination of interdisciplinary research programs at the national level.
The Project will finance investments in research infrastructure, selected research programs



4
(food and export crops, farming systems and natural resource management, livestock, fish
breeding, etc.); scientific networking, including the participation of CNRA in regional and
international network; and other capacity-building activities such as training and study tours.
(c)    Support to Key Directorates of MINAGRA (US$20.9 million or 10 percent of project
costs). The Project will support (i) the Central Planning Directorate, to carry out the
decentralization of its activities, on a pilot basis, in three of the twelve regional directorates of
the ministry; (ii) the Statistics Directorate, to carry out a national agricultural census and
thereafter produce focused, reliable and regular statistics; (iii) the Central Livestock Directorate,
including the National Breeding Commission, to plan and coordinate animal genetic
improvement programs; and (iv) the Central Cooperative Directorate to strengthen its policy-
making and coordination activities. The Project will support staff training, equipment and
incremental, non-salary operating costs.
(d)    Rural Radio Stations (US$3.2 million or 2 percent of project costs). The Project will
support the dissemination of infornation on market/price, agricultural and environmental issues
by radio and television Programs, with seven new rural radios installed by the Ministry of
Communication. The Project will finance training, short term technical assistance, equipment
and part of the radios' operating costs.
10.   The total cost of the long-term Program is estimated at US$602.0 million, of which about US$202.0
million for the first phase. The detailed costs for the first phase are presented in Annex III and summarized in
the table below. Government will finance US$214.6 million (35 percent) and beneficiaries will finance a
substantial (US$230.1 million or 38 percent) and increasing share of the Program's costs. It is estimated that
the total needs for external financing of the Program will be about US$160 million (27 percent of Program
costs). External financing needs of the first phase is estimated at US$57.4 million: US$50.0 million from IDA;
US$5.3 million from the European Union (EU); US$1.1 million from IFAD; and US$1.0 million from the
French Government. Although there is expression of interest from these donors to continue financing the
second and third phases of the Program, their final commitment will not be secured before the evaluation of the
first phase. It has therefore been assumed that the total external financing needs for phases two and three
(US$100.0 million) will be met by IDA. This would require a total IDA financing of US$150.0 million for the
three phases of the long-term Program. Should other donor financing become available, IDA's contribution
would be reduced accordingly.
First Phase Project Costs (in US$ millions)
Component2                Indicative Costs  Percent of Total   IDA Financing      Percent [DA
Financed
Support to ANADER              116.6               58               23.7               20
Supportto CNRA                  61.3               30               17.8               29
Support to Key Directorates     20.9               10                6.2               30
of MINAGRA
Rural Radio Stations             3.2                2                2.2               70
Total                          202.0              100               50.0               25
2   The project management and monitoring and evaluation costs are included in the costs of the components. Each
component is managed by existing structures, there is thus no need for a separate project management unit. The same
applies to monitoring and evaluation.



5
Key policy and institutional reforms
11.   The sector's policy and institutional framework is generally supportive of agricultural investment and
development. The exchange rate and fiscal policies are sound, trade has been largely liberalized and the
taxation of the sector, except for cocoa, is moderate. The major remaining constraints to technological change
and productivity improvements are institutional and will be addressed through the proposed Program. The
Program's objectives and implementation strategy are reflected in a policy note issued by the Ministers of
Economy and Finance, Agriculture and Animal Resources, and Research.(Annex 10). Its main elements are:
(a)    Privatization of ANADER and CNRA. ANADER's and CNRA's ownership and management
will shift from public to mixed private/public. Government's share in their capital will not
exceed 40 percent. The staff of ANADER and CNRA will no longer be civil servants (as early
as March 1999 for ANADER and after not more than three years later for CNRA). The
participation of the State in ANADER's and CNRA's share capital will ensure that national
policies and priorities are taken into account in the preparation of work programs, in particular
activities of a public good nature (natural resource conservation) or focused on the needs of the
poorest segments of the target population (traditional food crops, technologies targeted for
women). The restructuring of ANADER and establishment of CNRA with satisfactory
capital structure and management policies were completed as conditions of negotiations.
The research organizations that were merged into CNRA (the Savanah Institute,
IDESSA; the Forest Institute, IDEFOR; and the Center for Technological research,
IRCT) were officially liquidated as a condition of Board presentation. The submission of
the audited opening balance sheet of CNRA to the Association and the streamlining of its
staff are conditions of effectiveness (para. 53 (b) and (c)). Triggers for implementing the
second phase will be that: ANADER's and CNRA's staff are contractual and no longer
have civil servant status (para. 54 (b); ANADER has streamlined its staff in accordance
with the Programs' objectives (para. 54 (c)); ANADER and CNRA are performing
satisfactorily as autonomous private sector entities with efficient technical linkages
between them (para. 54 (a)); and ANADER's and CNRA's programs are relevant to their
clients, including target groups with low income (para. 54 (d)).
(b)    Decentralization of ANADER and CNRA. The decentralization of ANADER will involve the
transfer of decision-making from its headquarters to 10 regional directorates (for technical
programming, human resources management and budget execution). CNRA will also be
organized along decentralized lines, with 5 regional directorates with broad management
autonomy. The extent/specifics of the decentralization of decision-making and
management of ANADER and CNRA has been detailed and agreed upon at negotiations,
and its full implementation is a trigger for the third phase (para. 55 (b)).
(c)    Sustainable financing through cost recovery. ANADER's and CNRA's activities will be
increasingly financed on a cost recovery basis. During pre-appraisal, farmers' organizations
officially agreed to subscribe to 60 percent of ANADER's share capital, with the State retaining
40 percent, as well as 40 percent of CNRA's share capital (the State and the private sector
holding 40 and 20 percent respectively). They also agreed to finance 60 percent of ANADER's
and 40 percent of CNRA's operating costs, in line with their shareholding. This will be done
through a state-facilitated, but fanmer mandated, voluntary levy on the main export crops,
substituting for an equivalent amount of taxes currently taken by the Government on these



6
commodities (the specific mechanism needs to be defined). In the case of CNRA, additional
financing will be secured through a system of research contracts with users groups. Research
contracts have already been successfully tested (with ANADER) as client during PNASA. The
system will be expanded to other users under the proposed operation. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that (i) the proposal for setting up an autonomous financing
mechanism for ANADER and CNRA will be submitted to IDA before October 31, 1998;
and (ii) this proposal will be implemented by January 1,1999 (para. 52 (h)).
(d)    Farmers' empowerment. To ensure the effective participation of farmers in the management of
ANADER and CNRA, the Government has initiated a cooperative rehabilitation and capacity
building program.  Over the past years, many cooperatives have suffered from  poor
management, and a number of them are now close to bankruptcy. The Government has enacted
a new law to improve the legal framework for cooperative development and carried out a
detailed survey of cooperatives' management and financial performance. The next step in the
Government program is to liquidate cooperatives which cannot be salvaged and rehabilitate the
others. These measures will be supported by the Program. The Government agreed to
submit to IDA its detailed action plan for the assessment and financial rehabilitation of
the Agricultural Cooperative Movement (OPAs) as a condition of effectiveness (paras. 53
(d)). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the action plan would be completed
not later than December 31, 1999 (para. 52 (g)).
12.   The Government and farmers' organizations are strongly committed to the reforms above. A major step
was accomplished in December 1997 when farmers' organizations requested, and Government agreed, that the
State should have a minority participation in the capital and management of both ANADER and CNRA.
Benefits and target population
13.   Benefits. The first phase Project will have major economic, environmental and institutional benefits:
(a)    Economic benefits. The generation and dissemination of a sustained flow of well-suited
technologies will induce productivity increases through accelerated technological change.
Productivity increases will in turn increase agricultural incomes and the competitivity of Ivorian
production on both the domestic and international markets. Focus on women and young
farmers, generally among the poorest, will increase their productivity and income. Increased
agricultural income will generate further growth in the rural and national economy through
backward and forward linkages, and enlarge Government's taxation base and revenues.
(b)    Sustainability of agricultural services.  The participation of farmers/beneficiaries in the
management and financing of research and extension services, will improve the relevance and
cost-effectiveness of these services. This in turn will increase beneficiaries' willingness to pay,
thereby enhancing the long-term technical and financial viability of these essential services, and
reducing the burden on Government's budgetary resources.
(c)    Capacity-building. Through institutional reforms and training, the Project will greatly improve
the efficiency of institutions responsible for the delivery of agricultural services, including
farmers' organizations. Extension services will provide farmers not only with advice on
technology, but also with advice on farm management and information of markets, and will
offer farmers access to technical/vocational training. The Project will improve the ability of
MINAGRA to carry out some of its core responsibilities, such as the collection and analysis of
agricultural statistics (an essential decision-making tool for all the actors in the sector) and



7
policy-making. Finally, the Project will support the sustainable development of the cooperative
movement as a socially cohesive and economically strong institution that is able to deliver
services to its members and act as an effective partner to Government and private agents in the
sector.
(d)    Environmental Management. Research programs will focus on the conservation of the resource
base. With the increase in population densities in large tracts of the country, the impact of
current farming practices on soil fertility and agricultural production is increasingly a concern
to farmers. Soil and water management will be a major component of CNRA research efforts
and ANADER technology infornation dissemination.
(e)   Improved Governance.  Beneficiaries' participation in the financing and management of
ANADER and CNRA, and the decentralization of these services, will improve the transparency
in priority setting and resource use. Also, the strengthening of farmers' organizations will
contribute to their ability to (i) improve the efficiency and transparency of markets; and (ii)
participate in, or influence, the design and implementation of economic and social policies.
14.   Research results will benefit the entire farming population. Particular emphasis will be placed on the
needs of small-holders, in particular for food/subsistence crops and women. It is estimated that extension
services will directly reach about 200,000 out of the 1 million heads of farm households (35 percent of which
will be women). However, through diffusion, improved agricultural practices are expected to reach at least 60
percent of the farmning population. The Project will also provide direct support to about 5,000 cooperatives, 70
regional cooperative unions and 5 national cooperative federations representing approximately 250,000
producers.
Institutional and implementation arrangements
15.   The Project will be the responsibility of the technical ministries concerned and of ANADER and
CNRA. The Boards of these two companies include representatives of MINAGRA, the Ministry of Higher
Education, Research and Technical Innovation (MESRIT), the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Federations
of Farmers' Organizations. The Prime Minister's Office will provide overall oversight, without interfering in
the day-to-day implementation of the Program. Its role will be to provide guidance on policy and institutional
issues. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning and Industrial Development, which have a key
role in resource allocation, will be invited to take part in all project supervision missions. The implementation
procedures for the project are detailed in the Project Manual of Procedures. Adoption of this manual, in form
and substance acceptable to the Association, is a condition of effectiveness (para. 53 (e)).
Executing Agencies.
16.   ANADER will be in charge of implementing the Project's activities related to agricultural extension,
adaptive research and farmers' organizations. According to the 1997 law on companies with a minority
participation of the State, ANADER will be managed as a private entity by its Board. Its Director General,
elected by the Board, will be responsible for the efficient implementation of these components. ANADER's
operating policies and procedures, annual work programs and budgets will be approved by the Board. The
planning, financial, and human resources management will be decentralized according to a plan which was
agreed during negotiations.
17.   CNRA will be in charge of the Project's agricultural research component. The Research Directorate of
MESRIT will facilitate coordination of CNRA with other research institutions, universities, and international



8
institutes. CNRA has been created as a private entity with a minority financial participation of the State, and is
managed by its Director General under the supervision of a Board. CNRA's decentralization strategy has been
agreed at negotiations, along with its operating and funding policies.
18.   The Rural Radios component will be implemented by the Directorate of Rural Radios of the Ministry of
Communications (MINICOM). Once set-up, each regional rural radio will be established as a separate,
autonomous entity with a board including a majority participation of representatives from the localities
concerned and representatives from local administration and structures supporting rural development. They will
create a national network with an independent coordinating structure, which will be in charge of facilitating
exchanges with other regional rural radios, and the national and international media networks. The entities will
be responsible, with the assistance of MINICOM, for the management of personnel and the operation and
maintenance of equipment and physical installations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all
personnel, equipment and physical installations of the rural radios will be transferred to rural radio
entities upon completion of the physical works (para. 52 (a)) and that said entities will be established as
autonomous legal entities no later than December 31, 1999 (para. 52 (b)). In addition, assurances were
obtained that the rural radio entities would establish a national coordinating structure (para. 52 (c)).
Satisfactory implementation of these measures would be a trigger for phase 2 of the Program (paras. 54
(1) and (g)).
19.   The MINAGRA institutional strengthening component will be implemented through the Directorates of
Planning, Statistics, Cooperative Control, and Livestock. The Director of the Planning Directorate will be
responsible for the overall coordination/implementation of this component.
Management and Financial Arrangements.
20.   The following management tools will be set up to facilitate Program management: (i) accounting
systems for each component/institution will accommodate the grouping/classification of expenditures by project
components or activities, disbursement categories and source of funds, and will be in accordance with
appropriate accounting standards and reporting formats; (ii) the monitoring system will track physical and other
performance indicators for comparison with related costs/expenditures; (iii) a procurement management system
will provide contract information; (iv) internal control arrangements will ensure proper segregation of duties,
documented procedures for authorizations, and adequate levels of supervision; and (v) a computerized financial
management system will aggregate project information and ensure that accurate and timely information is made
available regarding project resources and expenditures. Four special accounts will be established under the first
phase of the Program, one for each main component: ANADER, CNRA, MINAGRA, and MINICOM. Each
component will have a project account for national counterpart funds. The opening of the project accounts
benefiting ANADER, CNRA, MNNAGRA and MICOM with the initial deposits made in the amounts of
CFAF 1,500 million, CFAF 700 million, CFAF 140 million and CFAF 40 million respectively, is a
condition of effectiveness (para. 54 (h)). The financing needs and sources of funds will be established each
year as part of the preparation of the work program and budgets for each of the implementing agencies. The
work program and budget for the MINAGRA and rural radios components will be submitted to the Association
for review and approval before October 31 of each year and for ANADER and CNRA before November 30 of
each year. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para. 53 (1)). Submission of the 1998
work programs and budgets is a condition of effectiveness (para. 54 (i)). Project Agreements with
ANADER and CNRA have been agreed upon during negotiations. Ratification of these agreements is a
condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 54 (a)). The proceeds of the Credit allocated to ANADER and CNRA
will be made available on a grant basis under separate subsidiary agreements. Signature of the ANADER and
CNRA subsidiary agreements is a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 54 (a)).



9
21.   ANADER.  It is envisaged that the current funding mechanism  for ANADER's activities
(Government's budget transfers) will be continued during the fiscal year 1998, while the Board of Directors
acquires a good understanding of ANADER's policies and procedures, and the Ministry of Economy and
Finance establishes with farmers' organizations a satisfactory and transparent system to collect the funds
necessary to finance their share of ANADER's operating budget. Starting in January 1999, ANADER's
operating budget will be funded by their shareholders according to their respective contributions to the share
capital.
22.   CNRA. As in the case of ANADER, CNRA's operations in 1998 will be funded under current
arrangements (budget transfer from the Government), until a satisfactory and transparent system has been
designed and introduced on January 1, 1999. The Government agreed to an autonomous and sustainable
financing system for CNRA (para. 11 (c)).
23.   The current agricultural research system owns 22,000 ha of experimentation and production land which
require specific non-scientific management attention. The Government agreed to have a clear separation
between CNRA's research activities and its production/marketing activities, and to maintain two separate
records and accounts. Assurances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations (para. 52 (d)).
Successful implementation of the separation of the management and accounts of research and
commercial activities would be a trigger for the second phase of the Program (para. 54 (e)).
24.   MINAGRA. The Director -of the Planning Directorate of MINAGRA will be in charge of the financial
management support of the MINAGRA component. Regional Directorates of MINAGRA will be in charge of
expenditures management at the regional level.
25.   Rural Radio Stations. During the first phase of the Program, the Director of Rural Radios, MINICOM,
will be in charge of the overall coordination of the financial management of this component and the Director,
Financial and Administrative Affairs, MINICOM, will handle expenditures. During the first phase, the director
of each rural radio will submit annual work programs and budgets to the directorate for approval. Each Rural
Radio will have an accountant trained under the Project. It is expected that Rural Radios will be autonomous
and self-financing by the end of the three-year period, by selling their services to, and entering into contracts
with the regional development projects in all sectors (education, health, environment, population, agriculture)
and private enterprises.
26.   Financial control and'audit. ANADER is currently audited by an audit firm acceptable to the Bank.
Each component of the Program will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. Audit
reports will be provided to IDA not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.  Audit
recommendations will be included in an action plan to be implemented immediately by the institutions.
ANADER's and CNRA's internal audit unit will be strengthened through systematic in-service training. The
implementation of adequate financial management systems by the Borrower, ANADER and CNRA,
including accounting procedures to ensure proper monitoring of project activities, satisfactory to the
Association, and the selection and employment of independent auditors, are conditions of credit
effectiveness (paras. 53 (f) and (g)).
27.   Procurement arrangements.  Procurement guidelines of the Bank will apply.  Each of the
implementing agencies will have its own procurement unit (Annex 5).
28.   Pre-Second Phase Review. There will be a joint-Government-IDA in-depth review of the first phase's
progress and achievements six months before the Credit closing date. It will focus on institutional reforms
(autonomy, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of ANADER and CNRA), impact on beneficiaries, and their



10
willingness to pay for services. Its recommendations, will determine IDA's continued support to the second
phase of the Program and be used in its further design. Agreement on the timing and scope of the project
evaluation was reached at negotiations (para. 52 (e)). -
D. Project Rationale
Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
29.   Two altematives were considered in addition to the one that was finally chosen. The first alternative
was to continue supporting agricultural research and extension activities under existing institutional
arrangements. There is however a consensus in CMte d'Ivoire that it is only by giving clients a major decision-
making role in selecting priorities and programs and in the management of research and extension institutions,
and making staff accountable for results, that these institutions will become truly cost-effective and responsive
to client needs. The second altemative was to totally eliminate Govermment from the provision of agricultural
services and let the latter be totally demand-driven and provided through national institutions like ANADER,
through farmers' associations, NGOs and private suppliers. This option was also rejected on the grounds that:
(i) farmers' organizations have not yet developed the necessary capacity to fully manage the full range of issues
and services involved in providing their clients with the necessary services, and (ii) in a totally private extension
service, there is a risk that the needs of poorest segments of the farming populations, and research and extension
activities in favor of longer-term "public goods," are neglected.



I1
Major related programs financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned)
Donor                         Program            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)   Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
- Ag. Sector Adjustment        NA        NA
- Rural Land (PNGTER)          NA        NA
- Export Crops Promotion       HS         HS
- Rural Credit                  S         S
Other development agencies
ADB                                  - Soja Development Project
- Livestock Development
Project
- West Regional
Development Project
FED - FAC                            - Sheep Breeding Project
GTZ - AFD                            - Dairy Project
FED - GTZ                            - Cattle Breeding Project
AFD                                  - Savannah Agriculture
modernization
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
Lessons learned and reflected in proposed Project design
30.   The main lesson learned during the first Agricultural Extension Project (PVA), implemented from
1986-1989 with support from IDA, is that it was nearly impossible to make public services truly responsive to
farmers needs: poor human and financial resources management, little incentive and accountability of staff and
no users input in the content of programs resulted in inefficient public services. Only a demand-driven system
and clear accountability of management and staff can ensure that agricultural services institutions are
responsive, flexible and cost-effective. This approach was tested under PNASA (1995-1997). The country's
main extension agencies were consolidated into a semi-private national agency (ANADER). Financial and
human resources management strongly improved and farmers became active partners in shaping activity
programs. This positive result provides the foundation for the proposed long-term Program.
31.   The second lesson from  experience in Cote d'Ivoire and in other countries, is the failure of
Governments to ensure satisfactory funding of public agricultural agencies. This stems from farmers' weak
representation in national, political and administrative decision-making processes, and also from a lack of
demand for services of public agencies because they are largely ineffective.  The institutional reforms
introduced under the Program will address this issue by giving farmers control over these institutions and
requiring them to fund directly the services they request, thereby drastically reducing the burden on public
finances.



12
32.   The third lesson is that public agencies are unable to attract and retain staff with the technical skills
necessary to respond to increasingly complex farmers' needs. Under the first phase of the Program, on-the-job
training and staff management based on incentives and accountability will strongly improve the quality of
technical and managerial staff.
33.   The fourth lesson is the persistent difficulty, in spite of continued efforts, to ensure strong linkages
between agricultural research and extension. PNASA initiated a new strategy, which linked specific research
programs to beneficiaries requests through annual technical/funding contracts between ANADER and research
institutions. This strategy, while showing promises, was not totally successful: with their budget still largely
funded by the State, the majority of researchers continued to pursue their own academic interests and undertake
research mostly irrelevant to farmers' main concerns. Under the Project, CNRA's research activities will be
largely driven and financed by beneficiaries, with research programs designed by regional technical committees
including more than 50 percent of farmers representatives.
Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership
34.   There is strong local ownership of the Project. The institutional reform program already initiated,
under PNASA, have strengthened Government's resolve to fully implement the vision of an open, demand-
driven agricultural services system, as a central element for achieving sustained agricultural modernization in
C6te d'Ivoire. Each of the proposed Project's components has been prepared by a national team.
35.   ANADER's proposal was prepared by its General Directorate in collaboration with its ten regional
directorates. A beneficiaries' survey of ANADER's operations was carried out, at ANADER's request, by
independent consultants from Benin and Burundi. The survey's recommendations confirm the positive impact
of the reforms undertaken by ANADER. ANADER also undertook a study (by private consultants) to improve
human resources management, whose results will be implemented under the first phase of the Program. In
particular, ANADER's staff will no longer be civil servants as of March 1999, which is indicative of a totally
new attitude among the agency's personnel.
36.   The CNRA component was prepared by a national team, including representatives from clients and
partners of agricultural research (ANADER, farmers' organizations, MINAGRA and research institutes) under
the oversight of the Ministry in charge of Scientific Research. In December 1997, the Council of Ministers
approved the principle of establishing CNRA as a company with a minority State participation. In February
1998, an external evaluation of proposed agricultural research programs was carried out by a team of senior
researchers from different African countries and two international scientists. The report of the evaluation panel
validates the main orientations proposed for CNRA, including reinforcing research on farming systems and
improving major socio-economic analyses. CNRA has also agreed to undertake an evaluation of its personnel.
The establishment of a mechanism and a process for periodic evaluation of CNRA programs and personnel will
be a crucial element for success.
Value added of Bank support in this Program
37.   The Bank has been the main partner of Government, since the launching of the preparation of PNASA
in 1992, in its efforts to implement long-term institutional reforms of national agricultural research and services
systems. The Special Program for Agriculture African Research (SPAAR) and Environmentally Sustainable
Development Agricultural Research and Extension Group (ESDAR) have been instrumental in shaping the far-
reaching reforms of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) to be implemented under the first phase
of the Program. They will continue to provide implementation support. Because of their extensive experience
in Africa, they are able to disseminate lessons learned and to quickly find suitable consultants to respond to



13
various problems (new institutional framework, demand driven programmatic support, linkage between
extension and agricultural research, private sector participation).
38.   The Bank was also able to draw on the experiences and lessons from other regions: Latin America in
the area of extension services and farmers organizations, and Asia for Integrated Pest Management. It drew on
its partnership with the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) for the design of approaches to other
technical issues such as soil and water management and agricultural statistics. It will continue to provide this
catalytic support during implementation.
E: Project Analyses
Economic
39.   The detailed economic analysis of the full Program is presented in Annex IV. In the "without
Program" case, current institutional arrangements have been assumed to continue, and the total cost of
agricultural services to remain at their current level in real terms. Agricultural productivity and production have
been assumed to continue increasing 1 percent p.a. and 3.5 percent p.a respectively, which corresponds to the
present long-term trend. With the Program, overall agricultural productivity is projected to gradually increase
from 1 percent to 2.5 percent p.a. and total agricultural production from 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent p.a.. The
"5.with Program" productivity increase is conservative. In C6te d'Ivoire the potential for technological progress
(on the basis of available technologies) is high for nearly all crops, and in particular for coffee, cocoa and food
crops that represent close to 80 percent of the sector's total value-added. Experiences in countries similar to
Cote d'Ivoire, with a high scope for technological progress, indicate that farmers in contract with efficient
agricultural services can achieve a productivity increase of up to 40 percent over those who are not, over a ten
year period (about 3.0 percent p.a.). The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Program is thus conservatively
estimated at 20 percent. The sensitivity analysis indicates that for the ERR to decline to 12 percent: (i) overall
benefits would have to decrease by 35 percent; (ii) benefits in terms of increased yields would have to be lagged
by over 5 years; (iii) the price of the main commodities would have to be consistently at the low end of their
present projections; or (iv) the program cost would have to increase by over 50 percent. These events are
considered unlikely.
40.   In addition, the incremental benefits used in the ERR computations do not include the benefits derived
from the positive impact of the Program on upstream and downstream activities (input supply, marketing and
processing) or on the rural economy as a whole through the incremental incomes and consumption it will
generate. The increase in employment and income generated by the Program will accrue to agricultural, and
more widely rural households which represent the poorest segment of the Ivorian population. Finally, the ERR
does not reflect the benefits from the program's positive environmental impact due to its focus on
intensification, on soil and water conservation and on the use of environmentally-friendly technologies such as
integrated pest management
Financial
El Cost Benefit                           El Cost Effectiveness
41.    The detailed financial analysis of the Project is presented in Annex 4. It indicates that (i) the financial
viability/sustainability of C8te d'Ivoire's agricultural services will be greatly improved and (ii) the fiscal impact
of the Program on Government's budget will be positive.



14
42.   Financial viability of ANADER and CNRA. ANADER is an ongoing concern with a satisfactory
fianancial situation and an efficient financial and accounting management system, as confirmed by the latest
(1997) audit report. CNRA is a new institution, established by the merger of the existing research institutes
(IDESSA, IDEFOR and CIRT). The finalization of its opening balance sheet and the setting-up of satisfactory
financial/accounting management systems are conditions of effectiveness for IDA Credit. The projections made
at appraisal show that the financial viability of ANADER and CNRA, as revenue-earning entities, is sound. The
initial demand from beneficiaries (farmers' organizations, private concerns) for participating in ANADER's
and CNRA's share capital and financing has been strong, highlighting their awareness of the benefits they could
derive from well functioning agricultural service institutions. There is little risk that ANADER and CNRA,Jf
they prove to be efficient and cost-effective, will find themselves deprived of operating funds. Indeed, the very
design of these institutions will ensure that their work programs, budgets and funding reflect their
beneficiaries/owners' willingness to pay. Improved financial and accounting systems, and qualified
management staff will ensure transparency and accountability in ANADER and CNRA's management. Their
progressive shift out of civil service mentality will help improve cost-consciousness and tailor annual work
programs to demand and available resources. Government's participation will ensure that programs focused on
long-term benefits and the needs of poor farmers will be adequately funded.
43.   Fiscal Impact: The medium- to long-term impact of the full Program is expected to be positive. For the
purpose of the analysis it has been assumed that the entire incremental cost of the program will be borne by
Government through either its direct participation (i.e. its 40 percent share of ANADER's and CNRA's
investment and operating costs) or foregone tax receipts (the reduction in agricultural taxes corresponding to
farmers' contribution to ANADER and CNRA funding). This is a conservative assumption since the private
sector will also contribute to program funding, in particular to CNRA. Even with this conservative assumption,
the impact of the Program on Government's budget will be very positive in the medium-tern, with incremental
tax receipts outweighing the incremental cost of the program as early as 2003 (year 5). At that point, the
cumulative fiscal impact will still be a negative CFAF 28.8 billion (US$47.0 million). The cumulative fiscal
impact will, however, break even in year 9, and reach CFAF 39.6 billion (US$65.1 million) over the eleven
years of the program and improve further in the outer years. The incremental productivity increase projected
under the program, and the corresponding incremental fiscal receipts, would have to fall to 1 percent for the
cumulative fiscal impact not to break-even until year 11. A further fall to a small incremental productivity
increase of only 0.5 percent would put back the cumulative fiscal break-even point to year 13.
44.   Cost recovery from beneficiaries, the tailoring of programs to real needs and to the availability of
resources, and improved cost-effectiveness, will improve the financial sustainability of agricultural services. It
is expected that by, or before, the end of the proposed 1 1 year-Program, external resources will no longer be
needed for their financing.
Technical
45.   Cote d'Ivoire's dynamic agricultural sector includes a wide variety of agro-climatic conditions, farning
systems and operators, from poor food crop farmers at near subsistence level, to farmers operating at
intermediate levels of technology (cotton farmers with animal traction), to farmers producing horticultural crops
for demanding export markets. Farmers' most pressing needs vary from reducing climatic risk and increasing
productivity through simple crop husbandry and soil/water conservation techniques to knowledge intensive
technologies for horticultural crops and integrated pest management. During Project preparation, ANADER and
CNRA have carried out detailed studies of the constraints faced by each of the main crops and farming systems,
and an inventory of existing relevant technologies ready to be either extended or field tested. This inventory
indicates that the country's research system has developed, or is able to develop/mobilize quickly, appropriate
responses to these technical challenges. The main constraints to their dissemination are not technical but



15
institutional: the efficient linkage between research and extension activities and the efficiency of extension
institutions. These are two of the central issues that the Project will tackle.
Institutional
46.   Under PNASA, ANADER's management and staff demonstrated that a shift in management was not
only possible but beneficial to all parties concerned. There is now a strong commitment from both the
Government and beneficiaries to accelerate the shift from public to private management of agricultural services
through the reforms envisioned under the proposed Project (private financial and human resources management,
decentralization, demand driven structures, systematic participation of users in programming, monitoring and
evaluation, and State retrenchment). User feedback will play an important role in technical orientation and be a
major input into the planning and monitoring process. ANADER and CNRA financial and accounting systems
have been overhauled to ensure transparency. A strong Performance Monitoring System has been developed
during preparation. An important on-the-job training plan will be financed by the first phase Project to improve
the technical skills of staff in ANADER, CNRA, MINAGRA Directorates, and MINICOM. An in-depth
procurement review has been carried out as part of Project preparation. Its recommendations have been taken
into account in the proposed implementation arrangements.
Social
47.   Research and extension programs will specifically target small farmers and women farmers, in
particular through Government's input in annual programming and its contribution to ANADER and CNRA
share capital and operating cost funding. The Program will have a positive social impact. Mainstreaming of
activities targeted to women farmers has already been successfully initiated by ANADER. ANADER staff are
now convinced that women farmers, because of their receptiveness to advice and technological change, are a
priority target for agricultural services. The Project will strengthen this initiative and also shape agricultural
research to address specific women farmers' needs.
48.   The major social issue of the Project is its potential impact on part of ANADER and CNRA's existing
staff. Although no significant staff retrenchment is anticipated during the first phase Project, some of the
existing staff may not be able to adjust their technical skills and their behavior to meet the requirements for
increased efficiency and accountability that are involved in the shift to private sector management
arrangements. This risk has been addressed by including massive training efforts for staff upgrading and
retooling in the Project. ANADER will continue its private human resources management, regularly adapting
its human resources according to the needs of the beneficiaries. In both cases, the dismissal of any staff will be
covered by severance compensation (funded from national sources). The process will be completely transparent
and based on objective technical criteria.
Environmental
49.   The Project will yield important environmental benefits. Research and extension programs will pay
particular attention to (i) intensification issues, thereby reducing incentives for area expansion and the
associated threat of deforestation; (ii) soil fertility issues, a major problem in Cote d'Ivoire because of the
generally poor and fragile soils; (iii) use of fertilizers and pesticide, (iv) quality and quantity of water supplied
and (v) training of high level staff in agricultural durability. Risks associated with agricultural intensification
and increased chemical use will be mitigated by the strong promotion of techniques such as Pest Management
Program  and the Sustainable Land Management Program.  Accordingly, the Project is classified as
Environmental Category B. An environmental impact assessment has been completed as part of Project
appraisal. It has shown that environmental concerns are incorporated in ANADER and CNRA approaches as
well as in the technical documents listed in Annex 8. The Project will work closely with the European Union-



16
financed project (PACIPE), whose priority is land management information, as well as with other projects,
including the Rural Land Management and Infrastructure Development Project (PNGTER) and the National
Agricultural Environmental Plan (PNAE). Establishment of operational relationships with the Action Plan of
PNAE will be inplemented and reinforced under the Program.
b. Environmental category:       B      [13
d. Status of Category A assessment:   EA start-up date:  N/A
Date of first EA draft: N/A
Current status:     N/A
e. Proposed actions:
* Preparation of two training sessions for the Radio Rural Program to provide a 15 minutes' course on
environmental information and sensibilisation. This will be done weekly and the teaching modules will be
prepared by ANADER, CNRA and PNAE;
* Intensive training on environmental management for high level staff from ANADER, CNRA;
* Training on agricultural durability for high level staff from ANADER, CNRA, and MINAGRA;
*  Training on the environmental aspect for journalists (TV, Radio, Press), and MINAGRA;
* Establishment of environmental indicators for ANADER;
* Preparation of an environmental manual to be used as a guide for ANADER, CNRA, and MINAGRA
technical staff;
* Distribution of PNAE documents to high level staff from ANADER, CNRA, and MINAGRA.
f. Status of any other environmental studies: N/A
g. Local groups and NGOs consulted: (List names):
h. Resettlement N/A
[ Summarize issues below (e.g., resettlement planning, compensation)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [ /] None
i. Borrower permission to release EA:  [ Yes  [ No  [5/ N/A
j. Other remarks: None
Participatory Approach
50.   During implementation of PNASA, Regional Technical Committees (CTRs) were organized jointly by
ANADER and research institutes in the ten regions of the country. More than 50 percent of the participants
were farmers. This dialogue provided a sound basis for the preparation of the proposed Project. Farmers'
organizations, agricultural inputs providers, and agro-industries were invited and effectively participated in
several workshops to discuss the orientation of ANADER, CNRA and rural radios. The pre-appraisal mission
participated in a two-day national forum with farmers organizations to review the proposed Project's design.
Private sector actors requested to have a strong role in the two institutions' programs and funding. The level of



17
their representation in the capital share and the budget will be their major tool for influencing the
research/extension agenda.
Checklist of Bank Policies
a. This Program involves (check applicable items):
[ ]   Indigenous peoples (OD 4.20)        []   Riparian water rights
(OP 7.50)  (BP 7.50)   (GP 7.50)
[ ]   Cultural property (OPN 11.03)       [/]  Financial management (OP 10.02)         (BP 10.02)
[/)  Environmental impacts                []   Financing of recurrent costs    (OMS 1.21)
(OP 4.01)   (BP 4.01)  (GP 4.01)
[ ]   Natural habitats                    [/]  Local cost sharing
(OP 4.01)   (BP 4.01)  (GP 4.01)          (OP 6.30)         (BP 6.30)       (GP 6.30)
[5/]  Gender issues (OP 4.20)             []   Cost-sharing above country three-year average
(GP 6.30)        (OP 6.30)       (BP 6.30)
[ ]   Involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30)  []   Retroactive financing above normal limit
(OP 12.10)       (GP 12.10)
[V]  NGO involvement (GP 14.70)           []   Disputed territory
(OP 7.60)        (BP 7.60)       (GP 7.60)
1: ]   Other (provide necessary details)
F. Sustainability and Risks
Sustainability
51.    Participation of users in the financing of approximately 60 percent of CNRA's, ANADER's and Rural
Radios operating costs and their representation on their- respective management boards is a guarantee for
sustainability. Direct financial participation of Government will decrease as the private sector and farmers
organizations' contribution increases. Past counterpart fund availability problems will thus be mitigated or
averted.



18
Critical Risks
Risk                        Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
- Research weak; proposed solutions are not responsive  M       Farmers have a 40 percent
to farmers' needs                                               representation on CNRA Board. They
will help design and finance CNRA's
activities
- ANADER remains a top down agency                     M        Massive training on participative
approach and client orientation
- Relationship between ANADER and CNRA is weak                  ANADER and CNRA are represented
M        on their respective Boards. They
participate together on annual regional
technical committees.
- Delay in implementing new statutes                   M        Close monitoring from the resident
mission
- Reluctance of staff to leave civil service           S        Attractive work enviromnent and
salaries in line with national market
standards
- Farmers' organizations unable to give a sense of     M        Support to farmers' organizations
direction to CNRA
- Reluctance of Ivorians to consider foreign researchers  M     Study tours support and participation in
as equal partners                                               research networks
- Government reluctant to accept full autonomy of radios  M     Dialogue with Government
- Unqualified field staff or absence of qualified staff  M      Substantive training provided
- Administrative delay in Program implementation       S        Close monitoring from the Resident
Mission and dialogue with the
Government
- Government reluctant to only have a small voice      M        Dialogue with Government
Program management
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



19
Possible Controversial Aspects
Risk                  Type of Risk Rating Risk Minimization Measure
R isk__               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
Government interference and streamlining of    G    M       Control by 60 percent of users
civil service                                               in each board. And regular
supervision.
Public to private management              M         M       Capacity building strategy to
reinforce staff efficiency.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Credit Conditions
Assurances obtained at negotiations
52.   Assurances have been obtained during negotiations on the following:
(a)   transfer of rural radios' personnel, equipment and physical installations to rural radio
committees upon completion of physical works (para. 18);
(b)    establishment of rural radio stations as autonomous legal entities with a majority participation
of representatives of the localities concerned no later than December 31, 1999 (para. 18);
(c)   the rural radio entities will establish an autonomous national coordinating structure ifi form and
substance acceptable to the Association no later than December 31, 1999 (para. 18);
(d)    maintenance of separate records and accounts for CNRA's research and production and
marketing activities (para. 23);
(e)   the carrying out of a comprehensive project review by the Borrower and the implementing
agencies six months prior to the Credit's closing date (para. 28);
(f)   submission of draft detailed work programs and budgets for the rural radios and MINAGRA
components by October 31 of each year and for ANADER and CNRA by November 30 of each
year (para. 20);
(g)    completion of the action plan for the financial rehabilitation of OPAs by December 31, 1999
(para. 11 (d)); and
(h)   submission to the Association of a proposal related to autonomous and sustainable financing
mechanisms of ANADER and CNRA before October 31, 1998, and implementation of this
proposal not later than January 1, 1999 (para. 11 (c)).



20
Conditions of effectiveness
53.   The following conditions must be met prior to effectiveness of the Credit:
(a)   the ANADER Project Agreement has been ratified by ANADER and is legally binding; the
CNRA Project Agreement has been ratified by CNRA and is legally binding; and the ANADER
Subsidiary Agreement and the CNRA Subsidiary Agreement have been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and ANADER, and the Borrower and CNRA, respectively, and are legally
binding (para. 20);
(b)    CNRA's human resources have been streamlined, in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(para. 11 (a));
(c)    CNRA's opening balance sheet, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association,
has been received and found satisfactory by the Association (para. 11 (a));
(d)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association an action plan, satisfactory to the Association,
for the financial rehabilitation of OPAs (para. 11 (d));
(e)   the Borrower has adopted the Project Manual of Procedures, in form and substance acceptable
to the Association (para. 15);
(f)   the Borrower, ANADER and CNRA have employed independent auditors (para. 26);
(g)   the Borrower, ANADER and CNRA have each established an adequate financial management
system, including accounting procedures, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure proper
monitoring of project activities (para. 26);
(h)   the Project Accounts for ANADER, CNRA, MINAGRA and MINICOM have been opened and
initial contributions of CFAF 1,500,000,000, CFAF 700,000,000, CFAF 140,000,000 and
CFAF 40,000,000 have been deposited into such Accounts (para. 20); and
(i)   the work programs and corresponding budgets for calendar year 1998 have been received and
found satisfactory by the Association (para. 20).
Second and Third Phase Triggers
Second Phase Triggers
54.   There will be a joint-Government-IDA in-depth review of the first phase's progress and achievements
six months before the Closing Date. IDA's support to the Program's second phase (years 4-7) will be
contingent upon satisfactory progress in achieving its longer-term objectives and will be based on the following
triggers:
(a)   satisfactory performance of ANADER and CNRA, and operation of ANADER and CNRA as
autonomous private sector entities with efficient technical linkages between them (para. 11 (a));



21
(b)    all ANADER and CNRA staff are contractual and no longer have civil servant status (para. 11
(a));
(c)    ANADER has streamlined its human resources in accordance with the objectives of the
Program (para. 11 (a));
(d)    ANADER's and CNRA's programs of activities are relevant to their clients, including target
groups with low income (para. 11 (a));
(e)    CNRA's activities concerning research and production/marketing are clearly separated in terms
of management and financial arrangements (para. 23);
(f)   the rural radios are established as autonomous legal entities with a majority participation of
representatives of the localities concerned (para. 18); and
(g)    a national coordinating structure has been established by the rural radio entities (para. 18).
Tentative Third Phase Triggers
55.    The third phase triggers will be refined and made monitorable as part of the review referred to in
para. 28. The tentative third phase triggers are as follows:
(a)    ANADER and CNRA's performance is deemed satisfactory by IDA. Both agencies are
autonomous and part of the private sector with efficient technical links;
(b)    ANADER and CNRA are decentralized at the regional level, in terms of finaricial management
and management of human resources, and implementation and supervision of activities;
(c)    rural radio stations appropriately cover the Borrower's territory and are performing at a level
satisfactory to IDA;
(d)    agricultural growth and productivity are environmentally sustainable; and
(e)    farmers' organizations are well established and have an active participation in the definition, the
financing, and the control of the research and extension programs.



22
H. Program Preparation and Processing
Has a Program preparation plan been agreed with the borrower
[/] Yes, date submitted: February 2, 1998  []No, date expected:
Advice/consultation outside country department
[/ ] Within the Bank: SPAAR-ESDAR        [ /]  Other development agencies: Canadian Development
Agency (ACDI), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), FAO.
Composition of Task Team
C. Fauliau (TTL); A. Toure, A. Fatoyinbo, T. Kone, L. Gbeli, M. F. Anet-Oyourou, A. Houedanou-Soro, A.
Sourou (AFMCI); A. Ben-Mayor, M. Gbetibouo, D. Prevoo, B. Kerby-Dia (AFTR3), H. Palmier (SPAAR), N.
Chabeuf (AFTR2); M. Petit (ESDAR); C. Pieri (RDV); B. Lagace (farmers organizations consultant); J.P. Okala
(Financial Consultant)
Quality Assurance Arrangements
Jean-Paul Chausse, Sector Manager
Jerome Chevallier, Manager, Operations Support
Abdul Haji, Senior Financial Analyst (Pre-appraisal, Appraisal and SPN)
Asha Ayoung, Procurement (post procurement review of PNASA, preparation, appraisal and review and
negotiations),
Giuseppe Topa, Sr. Natural Resources Management Specialist
Claudine Morin, Senior Counsel (preparation, appraisal and negotiations)
Renee Desclaux, Disbursement Officer (appraisal and negotiations)
I. Compliance With Bank Policies
[/]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Lead&Christian Fauliau
Acting Sector Ma(7r: Isabelle Girardot-Berg
Country Director(higeo Katsu



23
ANNEX I
C6te d'Ivoire
Second National Agricultural Services Support Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary    Performance            Monitoring and         Assumptions and Risks
Indicators            Evaluation
Broad CAS objectives
Reduce rural poverty    Reduce number of rural National surveys
poor from 36 percent in
1995 to 30 percent by
year 2000
Protect natural       Agricultural practices   Supervision reports and
resources             improving natural     surveys
resources management
Promote private sector   Management of      Supervision reports
development           agricultural services in
_______   private hands by 2001
Outcomes
Increase productivity of Annual growth of Ag.   Agricultural Statistics    Appropriate packages
farmers               Production increases to                      are available for poorest
4.5 percent and of                           farmers
productivity to 2.5
percent by 2001
Reduce Government    Government's           ANADER's and           Farmers' organizations
role in agricultural  contribution to Ag.   CNRA's annual reports  are eager to finance and
services              Services no more than                        manage Ag. Services
40 percent of total cost
by 2001
Develop farming       By 2001 30 percent of   ANADER's and         Farmers are willing to
systems which maintain  technical packages are   CNRA's annual reports,  change cultivation
natural resources     fully protective of   surveys                techniques
resources



24
Narrative Summary    Performance             Monitoring and          Assumptions and Risks
Indicators            Evaluation
Outputs
ANADER and CNRA    As a minimum, by          ANADER's and            ANADER and CNRA
established as cost   2001, suitable technical  CNRA's annual reports  are client-oriented
effective and demand-   answers are provided to  and independent client
driven agricultural   farmers for 30 percent   surveys               Relationships between
services. Their staff are  of their identified                       CNRA and ANADER
well trained and an   constraints; 60 percent                        are strong
effective M&E system    of research results are
is in place.          adapted for use by                             Reform of
extension services; 25                        CNRA/ANADER
percent of packages                           proceeds as expected
respond to women's
needs; and 50 percent                         Farmers' organizations
of ANADER's                                   represent their
technical advice is                           constituencies and
adopted by farmers.                           actively participate in
the management of
ANADER and CNRA
Total cost of                                 ANADER and CNRA
agricultural services is                      provide comprehensive
maintained at current                         and transparent
level                                         information.
Seven Rural Radios    By 2001 seven Rural    Supervision reports     No political interference
established and       Radios are established                         with Rural Radios
managed by users      and managed by users
Capacity in MINAGRA  Timely production of   Supervision reports     Incentives are
reinforced            statistics and quality of                      appropriate
regional programs
Inputs
(see table in block C)                       Project progress reports,  Farmers' organizations
supervision reports and   are reinforced
independent beneficiary
assessments            Training is efficient
Staff of ANADER and
CNRA become more
client oriented
Government adjusts to
________________   __________________             _ _its  new     role



25
Table 1: Triggers for Second and Third Phase of Program.
Project Component                Triggers for Phase 11            Means of Verification
Support to ANADER                Satisfactory perfornance as      Technical supervision reports
autonomous private sector entity
with satisfactory technical linkage
with CNRA
All staff are contractual and no  Independent audits and project
longer have civil servant status  annual reports
Human resources have been        Independent audits, project annual
streamlined in accordance with the  reports, and technical supervision
objectives of the Program        reports.
Extension services are relevant to   Independent beneficiary
its clients, including target groups   assessments, adoption rates of
with low income                  technologies, and client's
willingness to pay for services at
agreed upon level
Support to CNRA                  Satisfactory performance as      Technical supervision reports
autonomous private sector entity
with satisfactory technical linkage
with CNRA
All staff are contractual and no  Independent audits and project
longer have civil servant status  annual reports
Maintenance of a full and        Independent audits.
transparent separation, in terms of
management and financial
arrangements, between research
activities and production and
marketing activities. The benefits
of the latter are expected to be
increasingly utilized for
contributing to the financing of
research activities
Rural Radios                     All equipment, personnel and     Independent audits and technical
physical installations have been  supervision reports
transferred to the rural radio
entities.                           __
They are managed as autonomous   Independent audits and technical
entities with a majority         supervision reports
participation of representatives of
the localities concerned, and with
representatives from local
administrations and structures
supporting rural development
A national coordinating structure    Technical supervision reports
has been established by the rural
radio entities



26
Triggers for Phase III
Support to ANADER              ANADER's performance is rated   Independent audit reports,
satisfactorily by IDA, and it has    independent beneficiary
remained autonomous, with only   assessments and technical
limited representation by the State,  supervision reports
is operated as a private entity and
has efficient technical links with
CNRA
ANADER is decentralized at the    Independent audit reports, annual
regional level, in terms of financial  project reports, technical
management, management of       supervision reports
human resources, and
implementation and supervision of
activities
Agricultural growth and         Agricultural statistics, surveys
productivity are sustainable.
Agricultural growth is about 4.5
percent per annum, with
productivity growth of about 2.5
percent.
OPAs are sufficiently operational,   Ability to fund their share of
financially sound and structured to  operating costs of ANADER and
have an active participation in the   CNRA, technical supervision
definition, financing and control of  reports and Government
programs                        supervision reports of OPAs
Support to CNRA                CNRA's performance is rated     Independent audit reports,
satisfactorily by IDA, and it has    independent beneficiary
remained autonomous and is      assessments focusing on quality of
operated as a private entity and has  technical messages and technical
efficient technical links with  supervision reports
ANADER
CNRA is decentralized at the    Independent audit reports, annual
regional level, in terms of financial  project reports, technical
management, management of       supervision reports
human resources, and
implementation and supervision of
activities
Support to Rural Radios        Rural radio stations appropriately   Independent audit reports and
cover the Borrower's territory and  technical supervision reports
are performing at a level
satisfactory to IDA



27
ANNEX II
C6te d'Ivoire
Second National Agricultural Services Support Project
Project Description
l.    The Project will support the ongoing change of the institutions in charge of agricultural research and
extension services into cost effective and demand-driven agencies, managed by beneficiaries through farmers'
organizations. It will also provide support for reinforcing the capacity of the Ministry of MINAGRA and to the
rural radio network.
2.    Support to ANADER. ANADER will continue to improve its operations as follows:
(a)    Extension. The T&V system has been adapted to local conditions. It is based on the farming
system approach, with, however, a focus on specific crops. Extension will be reinforced by the
replacement of inefficient staff. The Project will improve the efficiency of extension agents by
financing equipment and training, particularly in participatory techniques, in methods for
finding appropriate answers to farmers' questions (information and research linkages), and
tools for transferring best practices to their clients. Subject matter specialists (SMS), about 200,
will have two roles: (i) train and support to extension staff for specifics crops or techniques, and
(ii) support more advanced farmers to improve their techniques. The Project will also support
the development of a performance-based human resources management.
(b)    During Project preparation, ANADER's management opted for a flexible structure that will
allow for a decrease in the number of extension staff and an increase in the number of SMS in
line with the evolution of farmers' needs. It is also expected that the number of supervisors will
decrease as the technical competence of extension agents improves. The best supervisors will
gradually become SMS. By supporting training and short-term technical assistance the Project
will help make these changes sustainable for the long term. Regional directorates will be a key
element in the flow of communications from the field to the top and vice versa. They will: (i)
sensitize field staff to national priorities, and (ii) inform policy makers of farmers' constraints.
(c)    Adaptive research. After a testing period of two years during PNASA, the adaptive research
approach is now well suited to ensure a good linkage between extension and research with: (i)
Adaptive Research System Sites (SARS), one in each of the regions, where researchers, under
farmers' control, try to adapt research answers to farmers' questions, (ii) Monthly Technology
Review Meetings (AMRT) where SMS and extension staff receive training and information
from researchers focusing on the current problems of farmers including women and young
farmers; (iii) annual regional technical committees where representatives of farmers (more than
50 percent of attendants) and all regional agricultural partners design the next year's extension
and research priorities. PNASA demonstrated that multi-locality trials orpoints d'observation
(PO) are very effective at testing new varieties in the context of regional constraints. As this is
a research task, however, it will be transferred from ANADER to CNRA. Under the proposed
Project, ANADER, will manage all research activities under direct farmers' control, while
CNRA will manage all activities under the direct control of researchers (Stations, Multi-locality



28
trials, Systemic Research for Agricultural Stabilization. Adaptive research, as well as extension,
will be strongly involved in four national mainstreamed activities: (i) soil fertility, (ii) integrated
pest management, (iii) support to women farmers (iv) enviromnental protection.
(d)    Support to Farmers' Organizations. Before PNASA, MINAGRA was in charge of supporting
farmers' organization, with low efficiency. During PNASA, after extensive consultations,
ANADER became responsible for supporting farmers' organizations in the field, while the
Directorate for Cooperative Control in MINAGRA (DOPAC) was in charge of supervising
cooperatives. ANADER conducted a census of farmers' organizations in the country and
assessed their capabilities. DOPAC prepared a new cooperative law, enacted in 1997, in which
cooperatives are assimilated to private enterprises. Strategies and tools to promote farmers'
organizations were developed by specialists with support from NGOs (CECI and the Ivoirian
Development Cooperative Agency, SOCODEVI).
(e)    Under the Project, ANADER will train and provide short term technical assistance to
cooperatives. DOPAC's role is now a purely regulatory one. The decentralization process
initiated under PNASA will be pursued. The Farmers' Organizations' Specialists (FOS) in
ANADER will work with cooperatives unions and support unions and member cooperatives in
day-to-day management, financial management and diversification. As provided for under the
new cooperatives law, cooperatives and unions' directors will be selected by the membership
and operate under its control. When a staff of ANADER is chosen by a cooperative, that staff
will be seconded from ANADER with a clear contract indicating his new responsibilities.
ANADER will help cooperatives in the process of selecting their directors, through preparation
of job description for instance. During Program preparation the need for a better definition of
the respective roles of cooperatives, unions and federations was strongly felt. The Project will
help clarify these issues. It will support training, including study tours and short term technical
assistance to reinforce relevant professional skills and abilities at all levels. Assistance of the
sub-regional Institute for Cooperatives Support and Staff Training, (ISPEC in Cotonou) will be
provided.
(f)    ANADER  and Specialists in Farmers' Organizations will facilitate farmers' access to
opportunities offered by local financial institutions. They will: (i) identify farmers' credit
needs and inform credit institutions; (ii) disseminate information to farmers about credit access
opportunities; (iii) assist farmers to draft the technical part of their credit request document; (iv)
monitor investment efficiency and provide technical support to farmers; and (v) sensitize
farmers to repayment and savings. ANADER will help farmers' organizations improve their
access to markets, as well as their ability to negotiate better prices for their products. The
Program will support training and short-term technical assistance from the private sector to
cooperatives.
(g)    The Government of Cote d'Ivoire is continuing to implement fundamental economic reforms.
The liberalization of coffee/cocoa is underway and should be completed in 1998 for coffee and
in 1999 for cocoa. The cotton sector should be fully privatized in 1998. Farmers' organizations
need to become more efficient in order to compete in the market place. The Project will pay
specific attention to this aspect. It will support public information campaigns on these issues
and provide study tours training and short-term technical assistance and will also support the
financial restructuring plan for cooperatives, with financing for the financial
restructuring/liquidation of cooperatives provided by Government.



29
(e)    Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Project will benefit from  an efficient Management
Information System (MIS). ANADER needs to manage its operations, assess its impact on
beneficiaries and take corrective measures if necessary. Strategy and tools tested during
PNASA will be improved and adapted. The Project will support training, study tours, and
short-term consultant missions.
3.    Support to CNRA. The structure and mode of operation of CNRA have been tailored to respond to
two crucial orientations:
(a)    Open up the system to effective collaboration at national and international levels. This should
be realized: (i) at the national level through collaborative agreements between CNRA, the
universities and other national research institutions that have a comparative advantage to carry
out programs on agriculture development related issues; (ii) at the international level, through
CNRA's involvement in collaborative regional programs and networking activities with other
programs in the sub-region under the framework of the Conference des Responsables de
Recherche Agricole en Afrique de l'Ouest et du Centre (CORAF), and regional programs in
partnerships with the international research centers under CGIAR, and research institutions and
universities from developed countries; and
(b)   Place ownership and control of beneficiaries on the research agenda. This really innovative
option has been translated into CNRA statutes of a private company with a minority financial
participation of the State.
4.    CNRA has been created by the merging of the two main research institutions in the forest and savannas
zones, IDEFOR (perennial crops), IDESSA (food crops), and the Ivorian Center for Technological Research
(CIRT for technology and food processing).
5.    CNRA's activities will be organized on the basis of programs resulting from an open bottom-up
planning process involving beneficiaries and ANADER, as well as other components of the NARS (research
teams of the Centre Ivoirien de Recherche Economique et Sociale (CIRES), the universities, and all institutions
with research and training capabilities in the agricultural/environment and natural resources management
domains).
6.    A new type of partnership is expected from this program  approach, going beyond the few
client/provider contracts that were signed in the past between research institutions like IDEFOR and IDESSA
and the university. The same type of partnerships agreements to implement part of the research-training and
research-development agenda will prevail between CNRA and ANADER, building on the fruitful collaboration
developed under contracting agreements by which ANADER has paid CNRA, to provide field research and
training services for the last three years. CNRA will enter into a new type of cost-sharing collaboration with
research partners and also ANADER except for specific services.
7.    Extension/Research linkages. CNRA's planning process will fully utilize the bottom-up system
established by ANADER at the local/regional/national levels. With five autonomous regional agricultural
research stations, coordinating experimental stations, and PES' (field experimental units for research on
production system in farmers conditions under researchers' supervision), CNRA will improve its responsiveness
to local clients needs.



30
8.    Responsibility to carry out multi-local research plots where new technologies (varieties, crop practices)
are tested under real conditions with frequent research involvement similar to PES, will fall under the full
responsibility of CNRA.
9.    Farmers needs. Periodic and full participation of researchers with extension staff in the participatory
diagnosis on the basis of ANADER's planning process will ensure that technology needs expressed by
producers will be incorporated into the research portfolio.
10.   An external scientific evaluation of CNRA programs and personnel will provide the needed elements
for decision making on the core programs that will be supported during the first phase Project. The normal in-
house mechanism for internal and external planning will start functioning progressively and operate under full
CNRA management control.
11.   Decentralization. The CNRA structure is based on five agricultural research regions based on agro-
ecological zones. Five research centers will coordinate at the regional level the activities carried out through
experimental stations, laboratories, field experimental units, and multi-local plots. In a two-way interaction
mode, a regional scientific coordinator will harmonize the programmatic and budgetary implications on work
programs of needs expressed by heads of programs as a result of evolving local needs. As such, the regional
scientific coordinator will participate with the head of programs and researchers in the local and regional
planning process (diagnosis and CTR).
12.   Partnerships with regional and international institutions.  CNRA will reinforce the partnerships
developed by IDESSA and IDEFOR with other NARS in the sub-region, International Agricultural Research
Center (IARCs) and institutions from developed countries. This collaboration will permit to draw from external
experiences and results, while participating also in collaborative regional programs and networking activities for
technology generation and transfer. CNRA will include other NARS, IARCs, and Networks in its planning
process, in order to identify domains of common interest to establish sound mutual beneficial partnerships with
these different programs. In so doing, it will give precedence to sub-regional collaboration, as proposed and
promoted by CORAF in West and Central Africa. Synergy among NARS and growing sub-regional
collaboration is expected to result in cost-sharing of resources among research institutions and joint
implementation of programs.
13.   Institutional aspects. CNRA has been established as a private company, with a minority financial
participation by the State, under the new legal category in Cote d'Ivoire of Societe Li Participation Financiere
Publique Minoritaire. Election of Board members by the general assembly is based on shareholder
representativity.
14.   Public servants from IDESSA, CIRT, IDEFOR are being seconded to the new institution, after selection
based on an external evaluation of existing programs and scientists of the three institutes. They will have the
option of leaving the civil service at the end of a period of three years and remain as CNRA employees or be
redeployed in the public service.
15.   Financial aspects. Producers organizations have endorsed the principle of contributing to both the
share capital and the annual budget of CNRA (as for ANADER). The participation from the agribusiness
community, the private sector as a whole, farmers' organizations and NGOs in the capital and budget is based
on sub-sectors. Shares will be fixed at the lowest economically viable level, allowing individual small holders to
become direct shareholders.



31
16.   The first budget of CNRA is expected to be based on a 60 percent contribution from farmers'
organizations, the private sector and NGOs. Government's contribution should decrease over time to reach a
lower limit of 20 percent of the total. This limit reflects the decision of the State to retain a substantial share of
CNRA's capital in order to ensure that country policy implications on agricultural research are met and prevent
the risk of insufficient consideration to food security needs that could arise from dominant alliances between
agribusiness and private sector shareholders.
17.   Strengthening and implementation of Rural Radio Network. The new liberalized context requires
good information on prices to facilitate commercial transparency. A team including the Director of rural radios
of MINICOM and regional specialists took stock of information on current rural radios. They defined a
national strategy to ensure a national coverage in the medium term. The strategy aims at setting up independent
rural radios, managed and financed by communities, and complementary to the national radio network. CNRA
and ANADER will provide information on new agricultural practices to improve production and productivity,
while preserving the environment. Several development projects in education, health, population etc. for which
good information dissemination is crucial will enter into contracts with rural radios. Under the Project, seven
new radios will be set up (Gagnoa, Bocanda, Abengourou, Dabakala, Korhogo, Odienne, Touba), taking into
account lessons learned in other African countries. It will support equipment, training, short term technical
assistance and operating costs on a declining basis.
Support to four MINAGRA Directorates.
18.   Directorate of Planning. To prepare the analysis and implementation of the Agricultural Sector Rural
Capacity Support Project (PVRHSA), the first phase of the Program will support pilot restructuring of the
Directorate of Planning for three of the twelve agricultural regions. It will aim to implement a decentralization
of strategy and tools of the Planning Directorate of MINAGRA, in order to: (a) define sound regional
agricultural strategies; (b) prepare regional programs; and (c) set up an efficient regional monitoring and
evaluation system. To reach these objectives, the Project will improve the capabilities of regional staff by
providing short-term technical assistance equipment and part of non-salary costs.
19.   Directorate of Statistics. The EU and FAO agreed to a joint effort with the World Bank to reorganize
the agriculture statistical services. The EU will finance a national census in 1998 to be carried out with technical
assistance from FAO. The Project will support preparation of the national census with equipment, training, and
short-term assistance.
20.   Directorate of Livestock. Recent studies have demonstrated that livestock genetic improvement will
have a big positive impact in terms of poverty alleviation. The first phase of the Program will concentrate on the
restructuring of animal breeding activities. A National Animal Breeding Commission has been established by
the Government in January 1997 under MINAGRA. This structure, which includes representatives of farmers'
associations together with representatives from research and extension, will coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the national breeding program for cattle, sheep and swine by NGOs and farmers'
organizations with support from CNRA and ANADER. The goal is to gradually transfer implementation
responsibilities entirely to the respective farmers' organizations. The Project will provide equipment, training,
short-term technical assistance and part of the operating costs for the Animal Breeding Commission to enable it
to supervise breeding activities.
21.   Directorate of Cooperative Control. The Project will support DOPAC in implementing the new
cooperative law. The Institute for the Promotion of Cooperative Training (Institut Superieur pour la Promotion
de l'Education Cooperative, ISPEC) in Cotonou will be strengthened as part of the effort. There are two
objectives: (i) to support the cooperative movement in CMte d'Ivoire; and (ii) to relaunch ISPEC and provide



32
efficient strategies and tools to different countries in the sub-region. The West African cooperative movement
is technically weak, and staff who will have to support its improvement are also poorly trained. The West
African cooperatives have not really been supported by their Governments during the last twenty years.
However, the new economic framework created by trade liberalization is a good incentive for change. In all
West African countries, Governments are requesting strong support for cooperatives. ISPEC will have an
important role to play during the coming years. The Project will provide opportunities to test its efficacy in
training and supporting cooperatives support staff. The Project will support training, short term technical
assistance, design of new technical tools, and will participate in the purchase of equipment and part of operating
costs.



COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET NATIONAL D'APPUI AUX SERVICES AGRICOLES li
Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(CFA '000)                            (US$ '000)              ForeIgn   Base
Local       Foreign       Total         Local      Foreign     Total    Exchange  Costs
A. MINAGRA
1. APPUIS SPECIFIQUES
a. OPA RESSOURCES GENETIQUES
Cellule de Coordination OPA sur les Res. G6n6tiques          365,340.00    378,660.00   744,000.00       608.9      631.1      1,240.0      51        1
Bureau des Ressources G6n6tiques                              58,670.00    40,655.00     99,325.00        97.8       67.8        165.5      41        -
Programme d'Am6lioration des Ressources Animales             715,681.20    415,644.80   1,131,326.00    1,192.8     692.7      1,885.5       37       1
Subtotal OPA RESSOURCES GENETIQUES                           1,139,691.20    834,959.80   1,974,651.00    1,899.5    1,391.6     3,291.1      42        2
b. Appul au LANADA / Veterlnalres PrIv6s                        55,080.00    20,880.00     75,960.00        91.8       34.8        126.6      27        -
Subtotal APPUIS SPECIFIQUES                                     1,194,771.20    855,839.80   2,050,611.00   1,991.3    1,426.4     3,417.7      42        2
2. SERVICES CENTRAUX MINAGRA
Statistlques Agrlcoles                                        3,176,650.00    104,650.00   3,281,300.00   5,294.4     174.4      5,468.8        3       3
Appul i la Direction des OPA et Cridit                        4,640,295.00    409,905.00   5,050,200.00   7,733.8     683.2      8,417.0        8       5
Programmatlon MINAGRA                                          706,368.00    166,100.00   872,468.00      1,177.3     276.8      1,454.1       19       1
Subtotal SERVICES CENTRAUX MINAGRA                              8,523,313.00    680,655.00   9,203,968.00  14,205.5    1,134.4    15,339.9        7       8
3. SERVICES EXTERIEURS DU MINAGRA                                329,497.00    245,665.00   575,162.00       549.2      409.4        958.6       43       1
Subtotal MINAGRA                                                 10,047,581.20   1,782,159.80   11,829,741.00  16,746.0    2,970.3    19,716.2     15      11
B. ANADER
1. VULGARISATION                                               26,267,765.63  5,564,449.63  31,832,215.25  43,779.6k    9,274.1   53,053.7       17      29
2. RECHERCHE-DEVELOPPEMENT                                      2,924,759.00    332,325.00   3,257,084.00   4,874.6      553.9     5,428.5       10       3
3. ORGANISATIONS PROFESSIONNELLES AGRICOLES                     4,317,359.00    668,425.00   4,985,784.00   7,195.6    1,114.0     8,309.6       13       4
4. FORMATION ET GESTION DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES                 5,569,843.98    894,540.82   6,464,384.80   9,283.1    1,490.9    10,774.0       14       6
5. SUIVI-EVALUATION                                             1,375,115.50    363,007.50   1,738,123.00   2,291.9     605.0      2,896.9       21       2
6. FINANCE ET COMPTABILITE                                      2,246,844.00    181,730.00   2.428,574.00   3,744.7      302.9     4,047.6        7       2
7. GESTION de LANADER                                          11,657,743.82  3,367,580.78  15,025,324.60  19,429.6    5,612.6    25,042.2       22      14
Subtotal ANADER                                                  54,359,430.93  11,372,058.73  65,731,489.65  90,599.1    18,953.4   109,552.5     17      59
C. CENTRE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE                      19,410,437.30  12,221,796.56  31,632,233.85  32,350.7   20,369.7    52,720.4      39      29
D. RADIO RURALE                                                    943,068.10    743,584.10   1,686,652.20    1,571.8    1,239.3     2,811.1       44       2
E. PLAN DATTENUATION                                                       -             -                   -           -      _____
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                              84,760,517.52  26,119,599.18 110,880,116.70    141,267.5   43,532.7    184,800.2  24      100
Physical ContIngendes                                           3,810,766.58  2,551,955.75   6,362,722.33   6,351.3    4,253.3    10,604.5       40       6
Price Contngendes                                               2,566,807.56  1.377,125.95   3,943,933.51   4,278.0    2,295.2     6,573.2       35       4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              91,138,091.66 30,048,680.88  121,186,772.54    151,896.8   50,081.1    201,978.0  25      109



COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET NATIONAL D'APPUI AUX SERVICES AGRICOLES II
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(CFA '000)                           (US$ '000)              Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign       Total        Local     Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. TRAVAUX
ContrucUon et Rfection                              3,264,374.50  3,264,374.50   6,528,749.00   5,440.6    5,440.6    10,881.2      50       6
B. VEHICULES, EQUIPEMENTS ET MATERIELS
1. Vhicules                                         5,764,500.00  5,764,500.00  11,529,000.00   9,607.5    9,607.5    19,215.0      50      10
2. Equipments
Materiel Infrfnatique                              1,280,600.00  1,280,600.00   2,561,200.00  2,134.3    2,134.3     4,268.7      50        2
Materiel de Bureau                                  733,270.00    733,270.00   1,466,540.00   1,222.1    1,222.1     2,444.2      50        1
Equipements Techniques                              724,151.00    724,151.00   1,448,302.00   1,206.9    1,206.9     2,413.8      50        1
Autres Equipements                                  883,026.00    883,026.00   1,766,052.00   1,471.7    1,471.7     2,943.4      50        2
Subtotal Equipements                                 3,621,047.00  3,621,047.00   7,242,094.00  6,035.1    6,035.1    12,070.2      50       7
Subtotal VEHICULES, EQUIPEMENTS ET MATERIELS           9,385,547.00  9,385,547.00  18,771,094.00  15,642.6   15,642.6    31,285.2     50       17
C. FORMATION
Formation du Personnel                               3,249,115.48    573,373.32   3,822,488.80  5,415.2     955.6      6,370.8      15       3
Formation des Populations                            1,566,900.00          -   1,566,900.00     2,611.5         -      2,611.5        -      1
Subtotal FORMATION                                     4,816,015.48    573,373.32   5,389.388.80  8,026.7      955.6     8,982.3      11       5
D. CONSULTANCE
Contrats de Consultation Locale                      5,881,514.00          -   5,881,514.00     9,802.5         -      9,802.5        -       5
Contrats de Consultation Etrangere                    138,090.00    626,710.00   764,800.00      230.2    1,044.5      1,274.7      82        1
Subtotal CONSULTANCE                                   6,019,604.00    626,710.00   6,646,314.00  10,032.7    1,044.5    11,077.2      9       6
E. SERVICE D'APUREMENT                                 8,185,000.00          -   8,185,000.00    13,641.7         -    13,641.7         -      7
Total Investment Costs                                  31,670,540.98 13,850,004.82  45,520,545.80  52,784.2   23,083.3    75,867.6     30      41
II. Recurrent Costs
A. ENTRETIEN DES INFRASTRUCTURES                       1,692,121.52    725,194.94   2,417,316.45  2,820.2    1,208.7     4,028.9      30       2
B. SAiAIRES                                           30,786,800.00          -  30,786,800.00    51,311.3         -    51,311.3         -     28
C. INDEMNITES DE DEPLACEMENT                           2,263,242.00          -   2,263,242.00     3,772.1         -      3,772.1        -      2
D. ENTRETIEN, REPARATION & FONCTIONNEMENT
Vehicubes                                            5,567,483.75  5,567,483.75  11,134,967.50  9,279.1    9,279.1    18,558.3      50       10
Micro-Ordinateurs                                     569,377.50    569,377.50   1,138,755.00    949.0       949.0     1,897.9      50        1
Materiel de Bureau                                    138,423.00    138,423.00   276,846.00      230.7      230.7        461.4      50        -
Autres Equipements                                    703,854.98    703,854.98   1,407,709.95   1,173.1    1,173.1     2,346.2      50        1
Subtotal ENTRETIEN, REPARATION & FONCTIONNEMENT        6,979,139.23  6,979,139.23  13,958,278.45  11,631.9   11,631.9    23,263.8     50       13
E. FRAIS GENERAUX                                     11,368,673.80  4,565,260.20  15,933,934.00  18,947.8    7,608.8    26,556.6     29       14
Total Recurrent Costs                                   53,089,976.54 12,269,594.36  65,359,570.90  88,483.3   20,449.3   108,932.6     19       59
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    84,760,517.52 26,119,599.18  110,880,116.70    141,267.5   43,532.7   184,800.2  24     100
Physical Contingencies                                 3,810,766.58  2,551,955.75   6,362,722.33  6,351.3    4,253.3    10,604.5      40        6
Price Contingencies                                    2,566,807.56  1,377,125.95   3,943,933.51  4,278.0    2,295.2     6,573.2      35       4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     91,138,091.66 30,048,680.88  121,186,772.54    151,896.8   50,081.1   201,978.0  25     109



COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET NATIONAL DAPPUI AUX SERVICES AGRICOLES II
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1998       1999       2000       2001        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. TRAVAUX
Contruction et Refection                                  155.1    7,481.3    3,996.0      1,030.5    12,662.9
B. VEHICULES, EQUIPEMENTS ET MATERIELS
1. Vehicules                                             1,481.3   12,029.3    6,634.0    2,090.5     22,235.0
2. Equlpermnts
Materiel Informatique                                       -    4,759.4       128.5          -      4,887.9
Matklel de Bureau                                           -     1,930.2      749.2      143.6      2,823.0
Equipements Techniques                                  134.7    1,614.9       829.7      210.8      2,790.1
Autres Equipements                                      475.8    2,772.7       109.8          -      3,358.4
Subtotal Equipements                                      610.6    11,077.3    1,817.2      354.4     13,859.4
Subtotal VEHICULES, EQUIPEMENTS ET MATERIELS               2,091.8   23,106.6    8,451.1     2,444.8    36,094.4
C. FORMATION
Formation du Personnel                                    695.9    1,819.4    2,153.1      2,021.0     6,689.4
Fornation des Populatons                                  228.0      690.4       911.8      911.8      2,742.1
Subtotal FORMATION                                          923.9    2,509.8    3,064.9    2,932.8       %431.4
D. CONSULTANCE
Contrats de Consultation Locale                          6,052.8    1,702.4    1,551.4      986.0     10;292.6
Contrats de Consultafton EtrangAre                        292.1       651.0      350.5      105.8      1,399.3
Subtotal CONSULTANCE                                       6,344.9    2,353.4    1,901.9     1,091.8    11,692.0
E. SERVICE D'APUREMENT                                    12,246.7    1,395.0          -          -     13,641.7
Total Investment Costs                                      21,762.4   36,846.2    17,413.9    7,499.9    83,522.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. ENTRETIEN DES INFRASTRUCTURES                                -     1,120.2    1,743.6     1,948.5     4,812.3
B. SALAIRES                                               12,147.3   11,470.7   18,636.7    9,056.7     51,311.3
C. INDEMNITES DE DEPLACEMENT                                673.3    1,325.0    1,400.8       655.1      4,054.2
D. ENTRETIEN, REPARATION & FONCTIONNEMENT
Vehicules                                                2,378.3    6,274.9    7,837.2     5,129.3    21,619.7
Micro-Ordinateurs                                             -       712.4      748.2      767.6      2,228.1
Materiel de Bureau                                            -       130.4      193.3      219.9        543.6
Autres Equipements                                         91.0       776.6      962.9      921.1      2,751.6
Subtotal ENTRETIEN, REPARATION & FONCTIONNEMENT            2,469.3    7,894.3    9,741.6     7,037.8    27,143.0
E. FRAIS GENERAUX                                          4,975.0   10,077.3   10,499.3    5,583.1     31,134.7
Total Recurrent Costs                                       20,264.9   31,887.5   42,021.9   24,281.2    118,455.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         42,027.3   68,733.7   59,435.8   31,781.1    201,978.0



COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET NATIONAL D'APPUI AUX SERVICES AGRICOLES II
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1998       1999       2000       2001       Total
A. MINAGRA
1. APPUIS SPECIFIQUES
a. OPA RESSOURCES GENETIQUES
Cellule de Coordination OPA sur les Res. G6n6tiques            180.8      554.9      446.3      177.7      1,359.6
Bureau des Ressources Gbnetiques                                79.0       72.2       18.4       12.7       182.3
Programme d'Am6lioration des Ressources Animales               874.3      340.5      503.8      450.0      2,168.5
Subtotal OPA RESSOURCES GENETIQUES                             1,134.1      967.5      968.5      640.3      3,710.5
b. Appul au LANADA / Vetnrinaires Prives                          43.9       17.7       66.6        9.8       138.0
Subtotal APPUIS SPECIFIQUES                                      1,178.0      985.2    1,035.1      650.1      3,848.5
2. SERVICES CENTRAUX MINAGRA
Statistiques Agncoles                                          5,547.7       95.2       88.3       33.1      5,764.3
Appui l Ia Direction des OPA et Cr6dit                         7,320.0      497.3      462.0      333.8      8,613.0
Programmation MINAGRA                                            475.8      413.5      421.6      264.1      1,575.0
Subtotal SERVICES CENTRAUX MINAGRA                              13,343.4    1,005.9      972.0      631.0    15,952.3
3. SERVICES EXTERIEURS DU MINAGRA                                  596.8      203.2      207.1       65.9      1,073.1
Subtotal MINAGRA                                                  15,118.2    2,194.3    2,214.3    1,347.0    20,873.9
B. ANADER
1. VULGARISATION                                                 9,817.9   19,227.6   18,945.8    8,018.2    56,009.5
2. RECHERCHE-DEVELOPPEMENT                                       1,023.2    2,100.6    1,774.8      866.7      5,765.4
3. ORGANISATIONS PROFESSIONNELLES AGRICOLES                      1,855.5    2,196.3    3,205.8    1,386.4      8,644.0
4. FORMATION ET GESTION DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES                  1,312.3    3,305.2    3,846.4    2,946.5    11,410.4
5. SUIVI-EVALUATION                                                498.1      760.1    1,429.9      417.6      3,105.7
6. FINANCE ET COMPTABILITE                                         850.1    1,115.1    1,530.9      665.4      4,161.6
7. GESTION de L'ANADER                                           7,472.3    9,503.9    6,713.7    3,801.0    27,490.9
Subtotal ANADER                                                   22,829.4   38,208.8   37,447.4   18,101.9   116,587.4
C. CENTRE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE                        3,933.5   26,457.2   18,980.5   11,948.6    61,319.8
D. RADIO RURALE                                                      146.1    1,873.4      793.6      383.6      3,196.9
E. PLAN DATTENUATION                                                    -          -          -____
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               42,027.3   68,733.7   59,435.8   31,781.1    201,978.0



37
ANNEX IV
Republic of Cote d'lvoire
Second National Agricultural Support Services Project
Economic and Financial Analysis
L Linkage to Country Assistance Strategy and Macro/Sectoral Framework
1.    The objectives of the Program fully support the sectoral priorities outlined in the CAS. It is a key
instrument for broad-based and sustainable poverty alleviation through productivity and income increases for 75
percent of the Ivorians living in rural areas. The Progran will also support the conservation of the natural
resource base, which inter alia provides livelihood to the poor. The 1994 realignment of the CFAF enhanced
competitiveness of agriculture. This combined with the ongoing liberalization of the coffee and cocoa trade and
the ongoing privatization of the cotton parastatal monopoly has further improved the incentives for developing
export-oriented agriculture and has made food crop production competitive, provided that farrmers have access
to improved agricultural services that put the technical know-how at their disposal to increase productivity. The
program will therefore also play an essential role in strengthening the expected supply response
II. Alternative Provision of Agricultural Services
2.    Two alternatives were considered in addition to the one that was finally chosen. The first alternative
was to continue supporting agricultural research and extension activities under existing institutional
arrangements. This was rejected. There is a consensus in Cote d'Ivoire, based on past experience, that it is only
by giving clients a major decision-making role in selecting priorities and programs, and in the management of
research and extension institutions, and making staff accountable for results, that these institutions will become
truly cost-effective and responsive to client needs. The second alternative was to totally eliminate Government
from the provision of agricultural services and let the latter be totally demand-driven and provided through
national institutions like ANADER, through farmers' associations, NGOs and private entities. This option was
also rejected on the grounds that: (i) farmers' organizations have not yet developed the necessary capacity to
manage the full range of issues and services involved in providing their clients with the necessary services, and
(ii) in a totally private extension service, there is a high risk that the needs of poorest segments of the farming
populations, and research and extension activities in favor of longer-term "public goods," will be neglected.
The approach proposed under the Program is thus the best alternative.
m. Impact of the Program on Public Finance and Cost Recovery
3.    From the public expenditure point of view, the key question to answer is whether the Ivoirian
Government budget afford the incremental cost generated by the proposed Program.
4.    The medium- to long-term impact of the Program on the Government's fiscal revenue is expected to be
positive. For the purpose of the analysis it has been assumed that the entire incremental cost of the 11 year
Program will be borne by Government through either its direct participation (i.e. its 40 percent share of
ANADER's and CNRA's investment and operating costs) or foregone tax receipts (the reduction in agricultural
taxes corresponding to farmers' contribution to ANADER and CNRA funding). Incremental investments would
initially be borne by external funding, but at the end of the Program would be fully financed by Government,



38
including the repayment of external financing. This is a conservative assumption since the private sector will
also contribute directly to program funding, in particular to CNRA and ANADER has already achieved some
cost recovery by selling its services to other donor funded projects. Even with this conservative assumption, the
impact of the program on Government's budget will be very positive in the medium-term, with incremental tax
receipts outweighing the incremental cost of the program as early as 2003 (year 5). At that point, the cumulated
fiscal impact will still be a negative CFAF 28.8 billion (US$47.0 million). The cumulated fiscal impact will,
however, break even in year 9, and reach CFAF 39.6 billion (US$65.1 million) over the eleven years of the
program and improve further in the outer years. The incremental productivity increase projected under the
program would have to fall to from 2.5 percent to I percent for the cumulated fiscal impact to break-even only
in year 11. A fall to an incremental productivity increase of only 0.5 percent would put back the cumulative
fiscal break-even point to year 13.
IV. Economic Benefits and Rate of Return
5.    Direct economic benefits from this project derive from increased productivity and production of a wide
range of crops and livestock products. The main crops are cocoa (45 percent of area planted to major crops).
coffee (18 percent), rice (irrigated and rained, 17 percent) and food crops. The analysis is based on: (a) a cost-
benefit analysis of the extension and research components; and (b) a separate analysis of the rural radio
component. The cost-benefit analysis for the extension and research components is performed on the Program's
full benefits and costs. It will not be possible to disaggregate the benefits for each phase individually, as they
are closely linked.
Extension and Research Components
6.    The economic analysis for the extension and research components yields an ERR of about 20 percent.
It is based on the following assumptions:
(a)    Without Program. It is assumed that public spending on these services will be at the same level
as under PNASA. This level of funding will, however, be inadequate to maintain or improve
the mobility of the extension service. Coverage of ANADER in terms of number of farm
families will, at best, remain at its present level of 238,141 farm families. Development of
improved technical messages will be resource constrained, as the existing research system will
have insufficient means to closely collaborate with ANADER and generate solutions to
problems encountered at the farm level. This will result in less potent productivity gains and
lower aggregate production increases.
(b)    With the Program: It is assumed that with the incremental funding, ANADER's mobility will
continue to increase, thereby enabling it to gradually increase its coverage to about 25 percent
of all farm families by the year 2000 and 50 percent of all farm families by the end of the
Program (2010). Average adoption rates of technical messages on most major commodities
will increase from an overall rate of 20 percent (the weighted average for both perennial and
annual crops), without Program, to about 21 percent for perennial crops and 50 percent for
annual crops. CNRA will, with the help of Program funding, be able to rehabilitate its
infrastructure and strengthen its research programming. The Program will also ensure
sufficient funds for the increased collaboration between research and extension and thereby
greatly improve the relevance of research programs. Adoption of improved technical messages
extended by ANADER will result in a 30 percent increase in aggregate crop yields for farmers
in direct contact with the field extension worker of the agency. It will also result in average
production costs 15 percent higher due to the additional inputs requirement. Overall investment



39
and recurrent costs are expected to stay at the level reached during the first phase of the
program  over the entire implementation period.  This will ensure that equipment and
infrastructures are properly maintained and replacement takes place at the required time
intervals (3 years for motorcycles and cars). In the case of CNRA, investment levels during the
first phase are higher than they will be for the entire Program because of the required extensive
rehabilitation of the research infrastructure. During subsequent phases, however, recurrent
costs are expected to increase significantly in order to execute the required research programs.
7.    These assumptions are relatively conservative.  Several empirical studies and findings from
implementation experience of similar projects in other countries have demonstrated that economic returns to
research and extension are potentially high. In cases where extension services are not as well organized as in
C6te d'Ivoire, returns were found to be as high as 70 percent. In Cote d'Ivoire, prospects for high returns have
been enhanced by the: (i) the devaluation that improved the competitive position of major export crops --coffee
and cocoa for which ANADER is virtually the sole supplier of productivity-enhancing technical messages; (ii)
liberalization of pricing and marketing of these crops that enables the producers to receive a larger share of
export values of these commodities; and (iii) decentralization and stakeholders' participation in the delivery of
agricultural research and extension services that keeps the cost of services in check and makes the technical
content more relevant to farmers' needs, thereby increasing the likelihood of their adoption.
8.    Typically, farmers that are in direct contact with extension services have aggregate crop yields at least
30 percent higher than their counterparts. Margins for more potent increases still exist in C6te d'lvoire, given
that for major crops, on-farm yields are much lower than research station yields, varying from less than 20
percent for coffee and cocoa to about 30 percent for irrigated rice and 40 percent for rainfed rice. The technical
packages already developed by the agricultural research institutes that have been merged into CNRA show
significantly higher yields (albeit in controlled conditions) than farmers obtain using current practices. The
following table illustrates the extent of the margin of technical improvement based on 1996 average crop yields
achieved on research station and farmers' fields
Table 4. 1: Research Station and Farm Level Yields
On Station Yields On-Farm Yields Farm Yields as Percent of Station Yields as Multiple of
Crops             (tons/ha)       (tons/ha)          Station yields            Farm Yields
Coffee             2.000           0.320                 16%                      6.25
Cocoa              2.500           0.450                 18%                      5.56
Irrigated rice     8. 000          2.200                28%                       3.64
Rainfed rice       3.000            1.200               40%                       2.50
Maize              4.000            1.500               38%                       2.67
Cassava            30.000          6.000                20%                       5.00
Yam                50.000          8.000                 16%                      6.25
Onion              40.000          25.000               63%                       1.60
Tomatoes           45.000          10.000               22%                       4.50
Cashew Nuts        0.600           0.300                50%                       2.00
9.     Margins for technical improvement can also be illustrated by the relatively low adoption rate for certain
major crops. For example in the case of coffee cultivation, a relatively old technical message such as pruning is
only adopted by 20 percent of farmers in contact groups aware of the theme -the rate varies from 60 percent for
the Abengourou region to about one percent for Man. Adoption rates for such themes are relatively low
because farmers are not aware of the long-term benefits. The following table gives the adoption rates for major



40
technical messages extended by ANADER during the 1996-1997 crop season, based on the results of the field
survey conducted by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of ANADER.
Table 4.2: Partial and Total Adoption Rates for Selected Technical Messages
Extended by ANADER (Country-wide averages, 1996-1997)
Partial adoption             Total adoption
-    ~(%)                         (%)
Anti-miride treatment                   8                          57
Coffee pruning                          19                         20
Coffee densification                    8                          53
Anti-PPAV vaccination                   0                          74
Internal and external deparasitizing    0                          65
Bunch seeding                           13                         65
Seed drilling for irrigated rice        18                         16
Fertilization                           20                         50
Coffee nursery                                                     48
Coffee cutlings                                                    56
Construction of improved hen houses                                31
Construction of improved barns                                     43
Composting                                                         13
Rural Radio Component
10.   In addition to the indirect effect of its contribution to the adoption of extension messages, hence to
overall productivity increase, the network of rural radios will generate revenues from advertising and
sponsorship. Assuming that a radio station will broadcast on average 20 commercials of 30 seconds, expected
earnings from all stations will amount to about CFAF 56 million. The resulting rate of return of the rural radio
component hovers around 12 percent, which is marginal. The benefits from the radio, however, are
underestimated given that they do not take into account its contribution to the adoption of technical messages
and to the societal well being in the rural areas due to the increased access of rural dwellers to market and other
socio-economic information. Specifically, by providing information of geographical supply and demand, the
rural radios will contribute to decrease post harvest loss and to private sector development. In addition, the
cost-benefit analysis excludes income from services provided to other development agencies that would be
provided on a full cost recovery basis.
Strengthening of MINAGRA
11.   Quantification of the benefits from the support to MINAGRA is not feasible. Its expected net
development impact, however, is observable. Reinforcing the capacities of the Planning Directorate of the
Agricultural Ministry is intended to result in a better screening of the sectoral investment program to weed out
less viable projects and increase the efficiency of the Program. Likewise, the support to the Cooperatives
Directorate is likely to yield closer supervision of farners' organizations and thereby increase their financial
viability. The support to the Directorate of Statistics will improve the reliability of agricultural statistics in the
country, which can then be used to improve national and regional policy and planning.



41
V. Quantitative Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
12.   The economic analysis has shown that the key factors that will determine the outcome of the Program
are: (i) reduced benefits resulting from lower than expected prices of the major commodities produced by
farners in contact with ANADER and CNRA (cocoa, coffee, cotton, and rice make up the bulk of these
commodities); (ii) reduced benefits resulting from delays in implementing the Program by the executing
agencies; (iii) reduced benefits resulting from lower than expected yield increases or adoption rates; and (iv)
higher than expected costs because of a sub-optimal use of resources by one or more of the implementing
agencies.
13.   Prices. The switching values of the prices of the major commodities with respect to the economic
returns or net present values of the Program were estimated. The analysis suggests that prices will have to be
consistently at the low level of their projections in order for the ERR to fall to 12 percent (i.e. the net present
value, NPV, of the program is zero), all other assumptions remaining equal. The likelihood of such an
occurrence is small given the prospective price patterns of the major commodities constituting the bulk of the
benefits. According to the World Bank's projections, there is a 70 percent probability that, for example, the
price of cocoa falls within the range US$1,500/ton -US$2,300 in the year 2000 and between US$1,560/ton -
US$2,830/ton in the year 2005. Using the 70 percent probability distribution for all the other relevant
commodities for Program benefits, the preliminary economic rates of return ranges between 12 percent for the
low case scenario (where the prices of all relevant commodities are at their predicted respective lower bounds)
to over 40 percent in the high case scenario (when the prices are at their respective forecast peaks). The
projection range for the commodities suggest that prices are more likely to be higher than their base case levels.
Based on a triangular probability distribution of commodity prices, the probability of a positive NPV is
estimated at 85 percent; in other words, there is only a 15 percent probability that the Program will yield a
negative outcome.
14.   Implementation Delays. The risk that ANADER will have difficulty in implementing the program is
small given its satisfactory performance under PNASA. For CNRA, implementation delays are more likely
given that the institution has only recently been created. Research programming will therefore initially be
slower and likely not of the required quality, thereby impacting on the timely availability of technical messages.
The proposed decentralization of the two institutions may cause additional delays, as this will demand
considerable management attention and require extensive staff training. In addition, there is a risk that the
shareholders of both institution may want to over-exert their powers over budgetary issues. The switching value
for implementation delays is estimated at five years.
15.   Lower Yields and Adoption Rates. As discussed above, the adoption and yield rates used in the
scenario are conservative. In addition, the sensitivity analysis shows that for the ERR to decline to 12 percent
the benefits derived from yields and adoption would have to decrease by 35 percent.
16.   Increased Costs. The risk that cost control will be implemented with delays is present, as the financial
management tools for CNRA are new and will only be fully installed at the time of first phase start-up. Program
costs would have to increase by over 50 percent, however, for the ERR to decline to 12 percent. This is
considered highly unlikely given the institutional setup of the implementing agencies. Moreover, great attention
was given during project preparation to the development of norms for standard costs and consumption, on the
basis of ANADER's experience. It is unlikely that either CNRA or ANADER will exceed these standards to
such an extent that it would negatively impact on Project outcome.



42
VI. Institutional Capacity Analysis
17.   ANADER is a relatively experienced and tested institution to implement the current project. It has
considerable field management experience, and has strong financial management- as shown by the latest audit
- and human resources management. In addition, substantial preparatory work has been done under PNASA to
prepare it for the envisaged decentralization. Procurement and inventory management is still weak though, and
particular attention has been given by the Bank during supervision of PNASA and preparation of the first phase.
18.   CNRA, resulting from the merger of three research institutions (IDESSA, IDEFOR and IRCT) with
different statutes, constitutes somewhat an institutional risk. The institution could be slow to set up and
financial and administrative, and human resources management may initially be poor. Research programming
may also be sub-optimal during the first phase as the CNRA adjusts to a demand driven environment. These
issues were addressed during project design by providing substantial resources to the institutional strengthening
of CNRA. Particular attention will also be given to strengthening its procurement capacity in order to avoid
implementation delays.
19.   The new shareholders of CNRA and ANADER (primarily farmers' organizations) will also likely have
problems adjusting to the new setup. ANADER has positive experiences with farmers' organization under
PNASA. There is, however, the risk that that communications could break down between the empowered
farmers' organizations and ANADER and CNRA because these organizations could overshoot their mandate
over budget matters. This applies particularly to CNRA because the relatively long lead time between the start-
up of research activities and actual results. To reduce this risk, the farmers' organizations will be trained to
conduct fair and responsible negotiations and dialogue with their partners. In addition, discussions over the
financial plans of ANADER and CNRA will be held every two years, instead of yearly, to allow for longer-term
planning and reduce the potential disruption of budgetary changes.
20.   MINAGRA  did not satisfactorily implement the planned activities under PNASA.  However,
considerable institutional strengthening support has been given during this project by other donors to ensure that
the first phase of the Program can be implemented as planned.
21.   MINICOM has only limited experience with rural radios. It, however, has the technical expertise in-
house to set the radios up and provide the required technical support. Support will be given to MINICOM
through short-term technical consultancies and training.
VII. Poverty and Equity Impact
22.   Poverty in C6te d'Ivoire, as in many other West African countries, is mostly a rural phenomenon. A
poverty profile of the Ivorian population reveals that food crop farmers are the poorest and that export crop
farners are the next poorer, while government sector households are the least poor. The direct overall impact of
the 11 year Program on poverty is in terms of increased productivity and production and thus higher incomes.
By continuing to focus on poorer food crop farmers, the Program will ensure that benefits will not accrue to
export crop producing farmers only. An indirect impact of the Program will be on rural to urban migration. By
increasing incomes in rural areas and improving employment potential in related sectors as rural incomes
improve, rural to urban migration is expected to diminish.



43
VIII. Environmental Impact
23.    C6te d'Ivoire has one the highest deforestation rate in the world. Until the late 1980s, Ivorian forest
cover was shrinking at an unprecedented rate of 5 percent per annum. The high agricultural GDP growth the
country enjoyed during the 1960 and 1970s was essentially the result of area expansion. The pattern is now
facing severe limitations in the fragile northern Savannah regions and in the densely populated southern regions.
A recent survey conducted by ANADER reveals that less than half the contacted farmers have adopted
fertilization and a little more than 10 percent practice composting. To reduce the pressure on arable land,
farmers must adopt more intensive and stable cultivation practices that combine increased fertilization,
improved fallow, and effective interface between livestock and agriculture. The project, through CNRA and
ANADER will help produce and implement environmentally sustainable technical themes.
IX. Monitoring Indicators for Development Impact
24.    The key performance indicators of the project are presented in detail in Annex 1. The following
aggregate indicators will sum them up. Agricultural GDP: The initial supply response to the devaluation of the
CFAF in terms of agricultural GDP growth was potent: 10 percent in 1995 and 4.4 percent in 1996 (up from 3
percent during the period 1986-96 and 1.1 percent during 1975-85). Further growth in agricultural GDP will
have to be induced by non-price shifters (research and extension especially). The Program is expected to
increase agricultural productivity from its long-term trend of 1 percent per annum to about 2.5 percent and result
in a sustained agricultural production growth of at least 4.5 percent. Aggregate volume of agricultural exports:
It will determine ultimately the extent to which internal market liberalization and farmers' empowerment will
translate into greater incentives to export crop producers.
25.    Other indicators to monitor the development impact of the proposed Program include: fertilizer use per
hectare of arable land, and the percentage of women farmers contacted.



44
ANNEX V
Republic of CMte d'Ivoire
Second National Agricultural Support Services Project
Procurement Arrangements
Documents
1.    The proposed Project will follow World Bank Guidelines on procurement of goods, works and services:
"Guidelines Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996
and September 1997" for goods and works, and "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997". The implementing agencies, ANADER, CNRA, MINAGRA and
MINICOM shall use (i) for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) the appropriate Standard Bidding
Documents (SBDs) issued by the Bank and (ii) for National Competitive Bidding (NCB), bidding documents,
acceptable to IDA. Each of the above implementing agencies shall also prepare a procurement plan for civil
works, goods and consultant services/training.
Civil Works
2.    Civil works financed by the Credit (US$14.18 million equivalent) include construction and
rehabilitation and are not expected to exceed US$200,000 per contract. Since the number and qualification of
Ivorian contractors are adequate, all works contracts equal or less than US$200,000 equivalent, will be subject
to National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts above US$200,000 will be
subject to ICB. The aggregate value of contracts procured using NCB procedures are not expected to exceed:
(a) for ANADER, US$4.47 million equivalent; (b) for CNRA, US$7.63 million equivalent; (c) for
MINAGRA, US$1.68 million equivalent; and (d) for Rural Radio, US$0.41 million equivalent. NCB
procedures will include local advertising, public bid opening, transparent evaluation criteria, award to the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder and non exclusion of foreign bidders. Post qualification of contractors will be
required to ensure that only those with sufficient and appropriate experience be awarded the contract. Standard
post-qualification criteria will be spelled out in the sample bidding documents.
Goods
3.    Goods financed by the Credit (US$45.97 million equivalent) include computers, equipment, office
supplies and vehicles. Goods that can be grouped into packages of at least US$200,000 each, will be procured
through ICB. A preferential margin of 15 percent or the applicable custom duty, whichever is less, over the
c.i.f. prices of competing goods will be given to domestic manufactured goods in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for all ICB procurement. Goods that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$200,000 will be
procured through NCB, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed: (a) for
ANADER, US$2.40 million; (b) for CNRA, US$2.75 million equivalent; (c) for MINAGRA, US$0.33 million
equivalent; and (d) for Rural Radio, US$0.28 million equivalent. Small quantities of office supplies,
consumable materials and spare parts that are available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped into bid packages of
at least US$50,000 may be procured through national shopping, based on price quotation of at least three
reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed: (a) for ANADER,



45
US$2.36 million equivalent; (b) for CNRA, US$2.31 million equivalent; (c) for MINAGRA, US$0.29 million
equivalent; and (d) for Rural Radio, US$0.21 million equivalent. For the interest of the Program and possible
savings, the implementing agencies are encouraged to compare the local prices with those of IAPSO for items
that could be procured by the latter. Only in cases where local prices exceed those of IAPSO's by 15 percent,
should procurement be done through IAPSO.
Consultant Services and Training
4.    Consultant services and training are estimated at US$21.12 million equivalent. Technical and training
assistance will consist exclusively of short-term consultancies. Technical assistance contracts, including
contracts for training and audits, will be procured following Bank procedures on the basis of the establishment
of short lists of qualified firms or individuals agreed by the Bank. Consultant services will be mostly procured
locally. Consultant services and training for the implementing agencies are estimated as follows: (a) for
ANADER, US$6.20 million; (b) for CNRA, US$1.25 million; (c) for MINAGRA, US$1.84. million; and (d)
for Rural Radio, US$0.24 million. The selection procedures based on the consultant guidelines will consist of:
(i) quality and cost-based for local consulting firms and the auditing firm; and (ii) selection of individual
consultants. Services for specialized studies and training such as gender issues, sustainable land management,
integrated pest management, and specific research and training themes for ANADER and CNRA contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, for individual consultant and US$100,000
equivalent per contract for consulting firms, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.1 1 of the consultant guidelines.
Prior Review Thresholds
5.    Contracts for goods above a threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent, will be subject to IDA's prior
review procedures. The first three contracts awarded by each of the 4 implementing agencies under US$100,000
equivalent will be subject to prior review. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold
levels will be conducted during supervision. Prior IDA review will apply to works exceeding US$100,000
equivalent. For consulting services, prior review of documentation will be required for (a) contracts with
consulting firms with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 or more; (b) contracts with individuals for US$50,000
or more; (c) all sole-source selections; and (d) TORs for all contracts regardless of value.
Monitoring/Filing
6.    Each implementing agency (ANADER, CNRA, MINAGRA, Rural Radio) is responsible for setting up
monitoring and filing procedures in compliance with the DCA.
Post Review
7.    All contracts not subject to the above thresholds will be subject to a post review.



46
Disbursement Arrangements
Use of Statement of expenditures (SOEs):
8.    Disbursement will be fully documented except for expenditures for operating costs, training and
contract for goods and consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent. Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) will also be used for contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants. The
training program will be include in the Annual Work Program and approved annually. All supporting
documents will be retained by the project management and made readily available for review by periodic IDA
supervision missions and external auditors.
Special Accounts:
9.    To ensure that funds for project implementation are available as and when needed, four special accounts
in local currency will be established, two at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA for ANADER and CNRA,
and two at the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement for MINAGRA and MINICOM. The initial deposits
equivalent to FCFA 600 million for ANADER, FCFA 400 million for CNRA, FCFA 60 million for MINICOM,
and FCFA 180 million for MINAGRA, will cover about four months of expenditures to be withdrawn from the
Credit account after Credit effectiveness. The Special Accounts will be used for all payments below 20 percent
of the initial deposit, and replenishments will be submitted monthly.
10.   The credit funds are expected to be disbursed after than the standard disbursement profile for
agricultural project in C6te d'Ivoire, in view of the shorter implementation period. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by December 31, 2001.



47
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Expenditure Category               Procurement Method                  Total Costs
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB          Other        N.B.F.
1. Works                -        14.18                        -           14.18
(11.24)                                 (11.24)
2. Goods              17.22       9.62         8.33         10.80         45.97
(10.77)    (5.96)        (5.16)                    (21.89)
3. Services /1 &                               15.87        18.89         34.76
Training                                       (9.53)                     (9.53)
4. Operating Costs /2                          66.67        52.70         119.37
(3.55)                     (3.55)
Total          17.22      18.13         96.54        82.39         214.28
(10.77)    (12.70)      (26.53)                    (50.00)
Note:   N.B.F. = Not-Bank Financed (includes goods and services procured under parallel cofmancing
procedures, and reserved procurement, any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in Parentheses are amount to be financed by the IDA credit.
/1:     All consulting services will be obtained in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines
(see also para. 4. of this annex). Most consulting services will be obtained using short lists from
databases already compiled by other IDA funded projects in the country.
/2:     Operating costs expenditures are those related to the project's incremental operations costs.
They include utilities, office supplies, vehicle and equipment maintenance costs, and travel
allowances of project staff. They will be mostly obtained through local shopping procedures,
given the ,small amounts of individual purchases and the difficulty in combining them in
sufficiently large lots.



48
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value       Procurement       Contract Subject to
Categories         (Threshold)            Method            Prior Review
1. Works              Equal or less than       NCB            Equal or more than
US$200,000                               US$100,000
First 3 contracts under
US$100,000 for each
.__________________   Implementing Agency
2. Goods              Equal or more than        ICB            Equal or more than
US$200,000                               US$100,000
more than US$50,000        NCB          First 3 contracts under
but less than                           US$100,000
US$200,000      Comparison of at least
three quotations
3. Services                                                    Equal or more than
US$50,000 for
individuals and equal
or more than
US$100,000 for
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   consulting firms



49
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of IIDA Credit Proceeds
Category              Amount of the Credit Allocated    Percent of Expenditures to be
(in SDR equivalent)                 financed
1. Civil Works                                                  80 percent
ANADER                              2,300,000
CNRA                                3,900,000
MINAGRA                               800,000
MINICOM                               200,000
2. Vehicles and equipment                                       100 percent of foreign expenditures
ANADER                              6,400,000            and 65 percent of local
CNRA                                6,200,000            expenditures
MINAGRA                               900,000
MINICOM                               500,000
3. Consultants' services and                                    100 percent of foreign expenditures
training                                                     and 80 percent of local
ANADER                              6,000,000            expenditures
CNRA                                  900,000
MINAGRA                             1,900,000
MINICOM                               200,000
4. Operating Costs                                              40 percent
ANADER                                900,000
CNRA                                  300,000
MINAGRA                             1,200,000
MINICOM                               500,000
5. Refunding of Project                      400,000            Amount due
Preparation Advance
6. Unallocated                             3,600,000            ___
TOTAL                                     37,100,000_



50
ANNEX VI
Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Second National Agricultural Support Services Project
Project Processing Schedule
Processing step1             Key Date        Phase             Budget
Plan      Actual                Planned        Actual
1. Concept Review Meeting      11/21/97     11/21/97         (At final PCD Stage)
2. Departure Pre-appraisal     0 1/12/97    01/12/97
261.6         318.5
3. Decision Meeting            02/23/98     02/25/98
4. Authorization for Appraisal  02/26/98    02/26/98
5. Updated PID to PIC          02/17/98     02/17/98  LENA
6. EA received date            03/20/98     03/20/98
7. Depart Appraisal            03/05/98     03/05/98
8. Invitation to Negotiate     05/10/98     05/14/98
9. Start Negotiations          05/18/98     05/18/98  LENN
10. Board Presentation         06/25/98    07/14/98



Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Second National Agricultural Support Services Project
Documents in the Project File
Feasibility Studies                                     [Relevant
Projet de Restructuration et de   Cabinet J.P.R.        PNASA B        4.830.000 F CFA     Report          1997
Developpement des Statistiques    Consultants - Abidjan,                                   completed
Agricoles (Etude realis6e sur le volet   Cote d'Ivoire
Statistique et sur le volet Ressources
Humaines)
Un
Mission d'appui a la DSDI pour    MM. Amavi Ayikoe      PNASA B         18.383.600 F CFA    Report         1997
I'elaboration du Sch6ma Directeur     Dossou-Gbete                                         completed
Operationnel des Statistiques Agricoles  (consultants)
Validation du rapport sur le Schema
Directeur Operationnel des Statistiques M. Keita Naman -  PNASA B       1.750.000 F CFA    Report          1997
Agricoles                         fonctionnaire FAO siege                                  completed
Mission d'Appui a la DSDI pour
l'elaboration de Programmes de    M. Dossou-Gbete       PNASA B        9.263.300 F CFA     Report          1997
Formation du personnel technique de   (Consultant)                                         completed
la direction centrale de terrain
Veille technologique
1-4



Cabinet CIM/France    PNASA B         9.000.000 F CFA     Report          1997
completed
Schema directeur informatique
(instance de signature)           Cabinet OM Consulting  PNASA B        9.970.000 F CFA     Report           1997
Projets/Abidjan                                          completed
Etude d'un plan d'assainissement des
Cooperatives et Unions            CABICOR                PNASA B        48.672.000 F CFA    Draft report     February, 1998
Mise en place de schema directeur
informatique                      OM Consulting          PNASA B        59.760.000 F CFA    Report
Convention dans le cadre de
1'execution du programme                                 PNASA B        31.627.250 F CFA
d'alphabetisation
Environmental Assessment          Resident Mission       AFMCI          N/A                 Mission Report  03/15/98
Specialist
Analysis of Social Aspects        N/A                    N/A            N/A                 N/A              N/A
Institutional Analysis
Structure juridique               Mme. Bouillet-         PNASA B         10.669.000 F CFA    Report          1997
Cordonnier                                               completed
(France)
Statut du personnel               JPR consultants        PNASA B        7.658.000 F CFA     Report           1997
(C6te d'Ivoire)
Gestion du patrimoine             Auditeurs Associes     PNASA B         13.900.000 F CFA    Report          1997



repr6sentant Arthur
Andersen (C8te
d'Ivoire)
Organisation, selection et gestion des   JPR consultants  PNASA B       56.702.500 F CFA    Report           1997
ressources humaines               (Cote d'Ivoire)
Information scientifique et technique   Cabinet BCEOM    PNASA B        9.000.000 F CFA     Report           1997
France
Etude prise en compte des         Mme. Koty Diakite      PNASA B        4.427.500 F CFA     Report           1997
considerations du Genre dans projet et  Peccoud
vulgarisation
Mme. Grace Hemming
Gapihan
VI
Etude de la gestion des ressources                       PNASA B        8.669.650 F CFA     Report          January, 1998
humaines
PNASA B        229 914 000 F CF



ANNEX VIII
54
RLpublique de C6te d'Ivoire
Union - Discipline - Travail
Ministere de I'Agriculture et                       Ministere de l'Economie
des Ressources Animales                                 et des Finances
Ministare de 1'Enseignement
Superieur, de la Recherche et
de l'Innovation Technologiqu-e
D&eclaration de strategie sectorielle dans le
domaine de I'appui aux Services Agricoles
Avril 1998



55
INTRODUCTION
La decision prise en janvier 1994 de mtodifier la parite du franc CFA a eu un effet
catalyseur sur l'economie ivoirienne. Depuis cette date, le Gouvernement a rnis en
oeuvre une strategie globale d'ajustement avec cornme axes fondamentaux la
consolidation de la situation des finarnces publiques et Y'acceleration des r6formes
structurelles.
Cette strategie qui s'inscrivait dans une perspective d'integration regionale, visait A i)
renouer avec une croissance econoridque forte, durable et diversifi6e ; ii) ameliorer le
niveau de vie de la population et en particulier lutter contre la pauvrete; iii) limiter
le taux d'inflation; et iv) parvenir a une situation economique viable.
Dans l'execution des politiques adoptees dans le cadre du Programme d'ajustement
relatif au secteur agricole, le Gouvwrrkement a proccde A la rnise en oeuvre, str la
periode 1994-1997, de mesures:.,xelative.s A la restructuration de ses services agricoles
dans le cadre du Programme National dAppui aux Services Agricoles.
Le Gouvernement est fermement d6e:de A poursuivre la mise en ceuvre de ce
programme A travers une autonomisation et un renforcement de la fourniture directe
de services de conseil agricole de base aux producteurs visant A l'amelioration de la
productivite des exploitations par le transfert des acquis de la recherche au
developpement.
La presente note d'orientation a pour objet de rappeler les strategies et objectifs qui
fondent la politique du Gouvernement en mati6re d'appui A la vulgarisation agricole,
de renforcement des organisations professionnelles agricoles et de recherche
agronomique dans un contexte de d6centralisation et de participation accrue des
producteurs a l'orientation des polftiques et a la programmation des actions.
2/15
Lettre d'orienbttion du Gouvernement dans le cadre du Programme
National d'Appui aux Services Agicol.s (PNASA 2)



56
1- OBJECTIFS ET STRATEGIES DE LA POLITIQUE ECONOMIQUE ET
FINANCIERE POUR LA PERIODE 1998-2010
1.1  Le 9 fevrier 1998, un document-cadre de poliique kconomique et financiere
pour 1998-2000 a presente de fagon detaillee les reformes engagees par le
Gouvernement et pour lesquelles il a sollicite et obtenu un appui du FMI dans
le cadre d'un nouvel accord al. titre de la facilite d'ajustement structurel
renforce (FASR) et celui de la BSanque Mondiale sous la forme de nouveaux
credits d'ajustement, ainsi que l'assistance financiere d'autres bailleurs de fonds
multilateraux et bilat6raux.
1.2  S'appuyant sur les resultats positifs enregistres depuis 1994, le Gouvernement
est determine dans le cadre de sa strategie de reformes pour. la periode 1998-
2000, A poursuivre une deuxierime generation de reformies visant a assurer Ia
viabilite financiere, maintenir l'economie sur une trajectoire cde croissance
soutenue, reduire la pauvrete et ameliorer substantiellement le niveau de vie
des populations.
1.3  Dans le cadre de cette strategie, le gouvemement s'attellera a (i) renforcer la
lutte contre la pauvrete et les disparites regionales; (ii) favoriser la creation
d'emplois par la promotion du secteur prive; (iii) valoriser l'ensemble des
ressources humaines; et (iv) renforcer la protection de 1'environnement.
1.4  L'expansion du secteur prive cols-tituera le principal moteur de la croissance
6conomique et le gouvernement poursuivra la liberalisation de rcc,nomie,
notammnent dans les secteurs du cafe et du cacao, afin de consoiider la
concurrence interne et externe. Le secteur public se sera totalemenc desengage
des activites directement productives.
1.5 Dans le domaine de la lutte contre la pauvrete, le Gouvernement est convaincu
que la realisation d'une croissance economique forte et durable est une
condition essentielle pour Ieduire de maniere significative la pauvrete en C6te
d'Ivoire. Le Gouvernement facilitera l'augmentation de la part des revenus des
cultures d'exportation revenant aux producteurs en fonction du niveau des
cours mondiaux.
1.6  Dans le domaine de l'agricWltt?e, le Gouvernement poursuivra la miise en
ceuvre d'un cadre incitatif approprie pour accelerer le developpement et la
diversification du secteur agricole et continuera sa politique de d6sengagement
des activites de production et de cornmercialisation dans ce secteur au profit
des  operateurs priv(s et des organisations  professioru.elles  agricoles
notanunent par les mesures touchant:
a)  l'amelioration de la productivite du secteur agricole par la mniseen place
d'un systUme autonome d'appui au monde rural (vulgarisation agricole
3/15
Lettre d'odlentation du Gouvernement dans le cadre du Programnme
National d'Appui aux Serrices Agicoles (PNASA 2)



57
et recherche agronomique), le developpement de l'approche par filiere
dans le cadre de la valorisation de l'exploitation agricole
b)  l'achitvernent des r6forlnes dans les filieres cafe-cacao et la mise en
ceuvre de mesures necessaires au succes de la liberalisation du secteur
cafe-cacao
c)  1'achevemen-t de la liberalisation des prix
d)  l'achevement du programmne de privatisation des entreprises agro-
industrielles
e)  la promotion d'un mouvement coop6ratif dynamique pour permettre
aux producteurs de conserver le maximum de valeur ajout6e de la
production agricole dans leurs regions
f)  la promotion de systeme mutualiste fiable de credit agricole permettant
un acces au financement de l'agriculture
g)  la promotion de 1'emploi en milieu rural avec l'appui aux jeunes
exploitants agricoles
h)  la mise en ceuvre d'une reforme fonciere profonde
i)  l'application du plan national d'action pour 1'environnement par la mise
en ceuvre de strategies sectorielles adequates et la poursuite des
programmes d'education et de sensibilisation des populations sur la
necessite de proteger 1'en vironnement
j)  I'instauration d'un cadre incitatif pour les producteurs (prix, credits,
encadrement et technolog.e, etc...) destine a accroltre les revenus ruraux
en vue de la lutte contre la pauvrete
k)  la promotion du role de la ferrune dans le developpement a travers
notaimment la mise en place d'une politique de lutte contre la
marginalisation et la reduction du taux d'analphab6tisme
1) l'intensification des efforts pour amgliorer la qualite et la coherence des
strategies econorniques et sociales.
m)  la d6concentration des seivices de l'Etat et la creation de collectivites
territoriales  reellement d&entralisees, en  vue  de  responsabiliser
davantage les organisations de base et les collectivites locales
II- ORIENTATIONS DU GOUVERNEMENT EN MATIERE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE
L'objectif de la Cote d'Ivoire est de promouvoir une agriculture moderne, me!canisee,
intensive, largement diversifi6e et competitive. Cette agriculture, attractive pour les
jeunes et les femmes, devrait contribuei A reduire le niveau de la pauvrete en milieu
rural et constituer un facteur essentiel de la relance de l'economnie nationale de la
Cote d'Ivoire A I'horizon 2015.
4/15
Lettre d'orientation du Gu avernement dans le cadre du Programme
National d'Appui ax Sern ices Agricoles (PNASA 2)



58
2.1 - Cadre irgneral
La poursuite de la restructuration des services agricoles trouve sa justification dans:
-    la restauration de la competitivite de l'agriculture par l'amrlioration de
la productivite, l'intensification des systemes de production afin de
renforcer la securite alimentaire, diversifier les exportations et
reconqu6rir le marche interieur des produits vivriers, de la viande et de
poisson
-    la mise en avant de la responsabilite professiormelle des producteurs
dans les politiques de d&veloppement agricole
-   l'orientation  des progranunes de  developpement agricoles et de
recherche agronomique vers les besoins des producteurs et de leurs
organisations professionnelIes appelees A jouer un r6le preporiderant
dans la conception et la rnise en ceuvre des actions, dans une dynamnique
liant la recherche, la vulgarisation et la formation
-   la gestion partagee de la politique de developpement agricole entre l'Etat
et la profession agricole, A travers la mise en place d'outils professionnels
pour le conseil agricole et la recherche agronomique, contr6l1s
conjointement par l'Etat et la profession agricole
-    la volont6 de faciliter l'emergence d'un secteur prive structure et
competent en milieu agricole
le financement diju db'eloppement agricole  et de  la  recherche
agronomique par l'Etat et la profession agricole
-    l'arnelioration de l'environnement econornique du secteur agricole, pour
en faire une cle de vofite de la lutte contre la pauvrete
-    la professionnalisation des operateurs agricoles a tous les ruveaux pour
qu'ils soient A meme d'assumer pleinement leurs responsabilites
2.2 - Orientations du Gouvernement sur les diffirentes composantes du projet
2.2.1 Consolidation de lANADER
Dans le domaine des services agri oLes, la volonte politique du Gouvernement s'est
deja traduite par une restructuxation profonde en 1994 qui a defini. un nouveau cadre
d'intervention de I'Etat et d'assistance aux producteurs, basds sur le transfert aux
utilisateurs des services agricoles d'une partie importante des fonctions de
conception et de mise en ceuvre des programmes et du pouvoir de contr6le des
structures chargees de delivrer ces services.
Cette restructuration a abouti au cours de la phase I A:
-    la dissolution des ex-EPN (CIDV, SATMACI, SODEPRA)
-    la creation de 1'ANADER, strtcture unique de vulgarisation agricole
5/15
Lettre dprientation du Gouvernement dang le cadre du Programme
Na lonal d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (PNASA 2)



59
Les resultats enregistr6s par 1'ANA-)ER  dans le cadre des axes definis par le
Gouvermement pour la restructuration des Services Agricoles en 1994 sont positifs.
Ces axes sont notanmment:
-    I'am6Iioration de Ia fourniture de services de vulgarisation agricole de
base efficaces aux producteurs
-    la mise au point d'outils performants de recherche-developpeme:-.t
-    la promotion d'organisations professionnelles efficaces
-    le developpement des filieres agricoles susceptibles d'assurer le relais de
l'Etat dans la gestion des activites de prodiuction dont celui-ci se
desengage
Le nouveau dispositif de vulgarisation est aujourd'hui op&rationnel. II dispose
d'outils maltris6s par ses agents, repondant aux besoins des producteurs et de leurs
organisations professionnelles. Ce dispositif a egalement etabli une liaison intime
avec la rechercle agronomique pour le transfert des acquis de la-recherche vers le
developpernent.
Le Gouvernement entend poursuivre a l'horizon 2010 la consolidation de I'ANADER
en  tant qu'outil professionnel de  conseil agricole  au  service  des famiilles
professionnelles agricoles pour leuirs besoins specifiques, et de l'Etat, pour les
missions relevant de la puissance: pt;:Clicue.
Les objectifs majeurs de cette consolidation visent a:
21/ Affirmer, A travers la trensformation  de 1'ANADER  en  so:i6t6 a
participation financiere pub'ique rninoritaire de l'Etat, la mise en place
d'un outil professiornel a vocation de prestations de service pour le
compte de l'Etat et ses programmes et projets, des producteurs et de leurs
organisations professionnelles
2Z/  Renforcer les activites entamees de conseil agricole integrant toutes les
approches eprouvees de diffusion du progres technique
30/ Accroitre les capacites professiorinelles des responsables des OPA  et
l'efficacite organisatiomr,lrle et financiere des coop6ratives dans la
diversite des organisations,(coop6ratives de base, Unions de cooperatives,
FRdCrations de cooperatives, ...)
40/  Aider a resoudre les prdblkmes de vulgarisation  et d'appui aux
cooperatives issues de la p:ivatisation du secteur agro-industriel (hevea,
palmier, coton...) et de la liberalisation de la commercialisation du cafe-
cacao
501  Apporter un appui aux groupes les plus vulnerables (fenumes, petits
producteurs, jeunes exploitants, ) et integrer les programmes  de
stabilisation de l'agriculture et de preservation de 1'environneement
(gestion durable des sols, gestion integree des ennemis des cultures,
securisation fonciere)
6/15
Lettre d'orientation du Gouvexnement dans le cadre du Programme
National d'Apptii aux Servicca Agncoles (1NASA 2)



60
Les actions A mettre en ceuvre s'inscriront dans le cadre ci-dessus defini et sur ull
programme a long terme couvrant une periode de onze ann6es, subdivisee en trois
phases.
La premiere phase (1999-2001) consistera essentiellement A arneliorer l'efficacite et la
viabilite des services de vulgarisation agricole, de recherche-developpement et de
I'appui aux OPA:
10) en renforcant l'organisation de l'ANADER pour l'adapter:
aux besoins reels des acteurs professionriels du milieu rural
(families professiownelles agricoles structur&es, organisations
professiornelles agricoles, agro-industies, autres operateurs du
secteur agricole, .) dans le cadre de conventions sp6cifiques
pluriannuelles consolidant un partenariat system-atique
*   aux preoccupations de l'Etat dans le cadre de l'execution des
programmes conventionnes (autosuffisance alimentaire, moderni-
sation aglicole, prise en compte des femme.s, promotion de
l'environnement);
*   aux contraintes regionales par un renforcement du decoupage
regional, une decentralisation efficace de la programmation, de la
gestion financiere et de celle des ressources humainles
2) en consolidant la compel:ence technique des agents, A travers la
constitution de corps de professionnels du conseil agricole et des
diffCrents metiers agricoles, capables de prodiguer un conseil technique,
financier, economique et social aux exploitants et A leurs orgarisations
professionnelles
30)  en renforcant les relations etroites avec la recherche agronomique par
une rationalisation des mecanismes d'echanges tant au niveau local,
regional, que national
40)  en mettant en place des m4canismes garantissant la perennisation des
ressources financieres pour l'execution des prograrmnes
La deuxi6me phase (2002-2005) et la troisiRme phase (2006-2009) devront permettre
de developper les actions de la prermere phase et aboutir, A un outil professionnel
autonome au plan financier et riche de multiples partenariats au plan technique,
contr61e par la profession agricole, assurant une assistance technique efficace aux
producteurs, aux filieres et aux agro-industries, dans une dynanidque permanente
liant vulgarisation, recherche et formation.
7/15
Lettre d'orientation du Gouvernement dans le cadre du Programme
National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (PNASA 2)



61
2.2.2 RestructLuration de la recherdie agronomique
Contexte de la restructuration
La situation de la recherche agronomnique nationale est caract&risee par:
-    une degradation et une vetuste des equipements des laboratoires et
stations de recherche
-    une sous-utilisation et une d6mobilisation des personnels de la recherche
face au manquae de moyens de fonctionnement
-    une rupture de dialogue avec les partenaires de la recherche dont
notamment les Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles (OPA); les
producteurs et/ou exportateurs, les Agro-industries, les ONG, etc...
Face .a la fragmentation et a la non couverture du territoire par le systeme national de
recherche agronomique, a l'insuffisance des ressources de l'Etat, AX'erniettement et a
la dispersion des moyens, la restructuration de la reclierche agronomique s'est averee
une necessite incontournable dans la situation socio-konomique actuelle de la Cote
dl'Ivoire.
Vision d'ensemble
Le Gouvernement entend mettre ern place un outil de recherche agronomique
prenant en compte la recherche prospective et la recherche appliquee 'orient-e vers
les besoins des utilisateurs et des partenaires du monde rural. Les objectifs riajeurs
sont:
1/Initier et ex&uter des recherches en vue d'assurer:
-    l'amelioration de la productivite des cultures destinees a l'exportation
(cafe, cacao, hevea, coton, ar%anas, etc...)
-    l'amelioration de la productivite des cultures vivrieres n6cessaixes a la
securite alimentaire (riz, mais, igname, banane plantain, etc...) et
susceptibles, a terme, de faire reculer la pauvrete de fason significative
-    la promotion et le d&veloppement de nouveaux produits exportables
(fiuits, Ilgumes, maratchem fleurs, feuillage, etc...)
-    l'intensification et la stabilisation des systemes de production r6gionaux
a base de vivriers en irn-grant l'elevage et l'introduction de differents
arbres utilitaires, & travrrs une modernisation de l'exploitation, par la
gestion durable des sols, la; gestion integree des d6pr6dateurs, la gestion
de l'eau, etc...
-    la mTise au point de techniques respectant l'environnement et a faible
coat adaptes aux besoins des producteurs et productrices & faible revenu
8/15
Lcttre d'orientation du Gouv,rnemnent dans le cadre du Programnme
National d'Appui aux Services Agticoles (PNASA 2)



62
l'amelioration et la divexsification des productions d'origine animale
(C-levage, peche, pisciculture, aquaculture)
la  dynamisation  de  la  recherche  technologique  notanrxnent la
conservation, la transformation des produits agricoles et l'adaptation de
la petite techlologie en milieu rural particuliOrement celle diminuant la
p6nibilit6 et arneliorant la productivite du travail tant des fernmes que
des homrnes
les conditions d'acceptabilite et de transfert des acquis de la recherche
agronomique vers le milieu rural en tenant compte des conditions
economiques locales
2/Mobiliser autour de la recherche agronomique nationale, au plan financier comme
au plan technique les partenaires prives incluant les OPA  et l'Etat afin de
garantir et pgrenniser ses ressources financieres et les competences pour
l'ex6cution des activites
3/ Doter les services regionalises de la recherche agronomique d'une capacite des
propositions, de moyens humains. materiels et financiers en rapport avec la
demande
4/ Apporter un appui aux groupes sociaux les plus vulnerables (fe:tnes. petits
exploitants, jeunes  dgscolaris.hs,.  etc...)  par  la  fornation  technique  et
professionnelle aux mgtiers agri-c le.5
Les differentes e'tzpesii -ixicubon
Les actions A mettre en oeuvre s'inscrivent dans ce cadre et s'appuient sur la mise en
place d'un Centre National de Recherche Agronomnique, societe a participation
financiere publique minoritaire et sur un programme A long terme (horizon 2010)
couvrant une periode de onze annees, subdivisee en trois phases.
La premiere phase (1999-2001) vise A mettre en place, de maniere perenne, une
structure unique de recherche agronorique regionalisee, au service des operateurs
agricoles, geree selon les pratiques en vigueur dans le prive par les beneficiaires eux-
memes, avec une participation financi6re de l'Etat ne depassant pas 40 %. Au cours
de cette premiere phase, les actiorasA amettre en ceuvre sont:
I Restructurer le dispositif de recherche agronomique et le positionner par
rapport aux objectifs du developpement par:
-    la mise en place des services au niveau central et regional
-    la selection du personnel en fonction des profils requis
-    la rehabilitation des infrastructures
-    la mise en place des equipements scientifiques adequats
9/15
Lettre d'arientation du Gouvernement dans le cadre du Progrmnme
Natiola1 d4Appui aux Services Agicoles (PNASA 2)



63
2/ Conduire des programmes de recherche pertinents par:
1'etablissement des catalogues de resultats vulgarisables et vulgarises
l'identification des progranunes de recherclLe en fonction des besoins du
developpement
la conduite dans les sta4ions et laboratoires centraux des programmes de
recherche cibles et pertinents
le suivi-evaluation des programrnes de recherche avec les partenaires
concernes
la programmation des prioritss a court, moyen et long terme
3/ Assurer l'appui au d6veloppement par:
I'etablissement de relations etroites avec 1'ANADER, les services de
developpement au sein des OPA et les agro-industries
la creation du cadre de participation des operateurs du secteur agricole
la consolidation et la rationalisation de la demande des utilisateurs et
I'organisation de la r6ponse scientifique
l'organisation des .(quipis Ae recherche a partir des besoins des
producteurs
l'evaluation scientifique du transfert des resultats de recherche et l'appui
pour l'adoption des technologies
l'elaboration des supports techrdques et technologiques pour le irLilieu
rural
4/ Assurer la cooperation scientifique et technique nationale, sous-regionale
et internationale par:
le d6veloppement des relations avec les universites et les- coles de
formation agricole
I'etablissement et le renforcement des relations avec les reseaux, les
centres internationaux de recherche (CIRA) et les partenaires bilateraux
le developpement de la vealle technologique au profit du CNRA et de ses
partenaires
l'organisation de l'information scientifique et technique a travers un
reseau INTRANET et la connexion au reseau INTERNET
la diffusion des resultats scientifiques
5/ Assurer la competence, l'adaptation et la motivation des agents par:
le redeploiement des effectifs en fonction des nouvelles exigences
requises par la nouvelle structure
10115
Lettre d'orienkation du Gouvernement dans le cadre du Progranmne
National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (PNASA 2)



64
1'elaboration d'un plan de formation des agents afin de rrieux les adapter
A leur poste et mission
une gestion des ressources humaines en fonction des nouveHles exigences
la mise en place d'un nouveau systeme de remuneration incitatif
La deuxieme phase (2002-2005) devra permettre de renforcer et de consolider les
actions developpees dans la premiere phase en particulier en terme d'autonomie
financiere et de partenariat techlnique. EIle sera I'amorce d'un processus soutenu
d'intensrification de l'agriculture preservatrice de 1'enviroimement, adap tee aux
potentialites agricoles des regions, aux aptitudes culturales des sols et aux differents
systemes regionaux d' elevage et le renforcement des activites de recherche
technologique, base du developpement.agro-industriel.
La troisieme phase (2006-2009) sera une phase de croisiere qui sera marquee par une
p6rennisation de I'autonomie de la structure au plan financier et au plan teclhique.
La prise en main de la structure sera achevee et leg partenaires disposeront d'un outil
de recherche agronornique fonctionnant dans un environnement coop6ratif avec les
agriculteurs, les structures de vulgarisation, les operateurs agTicoles, le systeme
d'enseignement superieur, les centres internationaux et les reseaux de recherche de la
sous-region et du monde entier.
2.2.3 Renforcement des organisations professionnelles agricoles
TLa reussite de la politique de liberalisation et de desengagement de l'Etat est
conditicnnee par la promotion d'une conception du d6veloppement::.ntre sur les
principes d'initiatives a la base un renforcement soutenu de la professionnalisation
des operateurs du secteur agricole tant au rnveau tecluhique que orgardsationnel.
Dans ce cadre, le Gouvernement poursuivra sa politique de renforcement des
organisations professionnelles agricoles A travers:
-    1'amelioration du cadre legislatif et reglementaire des cooperatives
-    le renforcement des prograrrumes de formation du personnel d'appui aux
cooperatives pour ameliorer leur efficacite
-    un programme d'assainissement et de rehabilitation financiere des
cooperatives, en vue d'accroitre leurs capacites A faire face aux
contraintes de liberalisation accrue des differents secteurs de production
*; - la promotion et la reconnaissance des orgarxisations interprofessionnelles
representatives des diff6rentes fili.ires de production, charg es d'initier
et d'appliquer des accords interprofessionnels, pouvant devenir des
interlocuteurs des pouvoirs publics dans toutes les questions touchant
leurs secteurs d'activite (connaissance des marches, qualite des produits,
etablissement de  normes  techrdques, programmes  de  recherclLe
appliques et de developpemrent, promotion des produits sur les march6s,
etc...) ou dans le r4glement des cas de litiges eventuels.
11/15
Lette d'orientation du Gou7-mmement dans le cadre du Programme
National d'Appui aux Servicea Agricoles (PNA.SA 2)



65
2.2.4  Financement de l1encadrement et de la recherche agronomigue
La  dynarnique  induite  par la restructuration  des services  agricoles, liant
vulgarisation-recherche et forrnation, devrait etre une source d'amelioration de la
production et de la productivite aglicoles.
La mise en avant de la responsabilift professionnelle des producteurs et: de leurs
organisations dans la colLception et la programmation des actions de developpement
agricole permet d'introduire la notion du service dont le producteur determine
l'objectif, evalue le resul tat, reutilise ou non le prestataire et en supporte les couats.
L'agriculture, comme les autres secteurs economiques, doit investir dans sa recherche
et son developpement, en inscrivant son action dans la duree, notanmment en terines
de garantie et de disponibilite des ressources, pour que les producteurus ameliorent
leur capacite de production, s'adaptent en innovant et en anticipant.
Pour le Gouvememenit, la participation effective de la profession agricole aux cotes
de l'Etat, au financement de l'encadrerment et de la recherche agricoles sur la base des
besoins propres de cette profession, est une reforme prioritaire du PNASA II.
Le Gouvernement contribuera a la lnise en place de mecanismes permettant le
finance:ment autonome de l'encadrement et de la recherche agricoles, en accord avec
les fi]ieres agricoles. Ces mecanismes en cours d'etude, pourraient notanment
s'appuyer sur des cotisations professionnelles explicites dont la collecte  era Yaranti
par l'Etat pour toutes les fili&es dc production, a travers un dispositif legislatif et
r6glementaire.
A  travers son budget annuel, l'Etat poursuivra le financement de missions
specifiques relevant de la puissance publique (recherche prospective, formation des
producteurs, protection des petits producteurs et des groupes vulnerables, prise en
compte des filieres non organisees, etc...)
2,2.5 Renforcemnent du developpernent reional agricole et des capacites d'antljise
des politiques agnrcoZes
Dans le cadre de la politique de decentralisation et de l'amelioration de lYefficacite de
l'administration  publique,  le  Gouvemement  appuiera  un  programme  de
responsabilisation et de rationalisation des structures decentralisees visant a i) definir
des politiques et des strategies region les agricoles socialement et economiquement
soutenable, ii) elaborer un programme d'investissements publics agricoles adaptes a
ces politiques, iii) mettre en place un systeme regional et national efficace de
planification, de programmation, de suivi--valuation, iv) mettre en place un reseau
d'analyses des politiques agricoles associant tous les partenaires.
12/15
Lettre d'orientation du Gouvernement dans le cadre du Programme
National d'Appui auc Services Agricoles (PNASA 2)



66
Le dernier recensement national de 1' agriculture en C6te d'Ivoire remonte A 1974; les
donnees structurelles sur l'ensemble de I'agriculture ivoirienne datent donc de plus
de 20 ans.
Le systemne d'enquktes annuelles mis en place apres le recensement de 1974 a permis
de mettre a la disposition des utilisateurs des statistiques fiables jusqu'en 1984. A
partir de cette date, les difficuIt6s liees au financement du dispositif de collecte
d'informations ont conduit a l'effritement progressifs du dispositif qui a fini par
disparaftre.
Pour remedier A cette situation, le Ministere de 1'Agriculture et des Ressources
Animnales a beneficie de divers appuis techniques et financiers ponctuels pour la
relance des activites statistiques. Le dernier de ces appuis intervenus dans le cadre de
la preparation du PNASA II a abouti a l'(laboration d'un sche!ma directeur
operationnel des statistiques agricoles.:
La mise en ceuvre de ce schema rernforcera l'Etat dans sa capacite d'analyse des
politiques agricoles par la reorganisation des statistiques agricoles, base sur
1'execution d'un nouveau recensement'national de I'agriculture et la nise en place
d'un syste-me permanent denquetes agricoles annuelles.
Le Gouvernement rationalisera egalement la reglementation dans les domaines de la
s6curite fonciere, de la protection des ressources naturelles et des coop6ratives du
secteur agricole.
2.2.6  Infornation des producte?4.s
Dans le nouveau contexte econorirque et dans le cadre de la lutte contre la pauvrete,
le Gouvernemelnt entend donner la possibilite aux groupes d'honunes, de femrnes,
des communautes de village et des regions de communiquer, d'&Largir leur espace
d'6changes d'informations de qualite sur Y'ensemble des questions touchant les
marches (prix, transparence commerciale, etc...), les productions (techrdques de
production,  technologies,  etc...) lNiducation,  la  sante,  la  protection   de
l'environnement, etc...
Le Gouvernement soutiendra l'instaflation et le renforcement des radios rurales
locales, en complemnent du reseau aes radios de proxirnit6 et du reseau de
radiodiffusion nationale.
Ces radios rurales locales autonomes, g(r6es et financoes sur la base des prestations
de services par les communautCs et les programmes de developpement disposeront
d'un appui de l'Etat en termes de formation du personnel, d'assistance teclnique et
d'equipement, dans le cadre d'un r6seau national des Radios Rurales Locales destine
a couvrir l'ensemble du territoire national.
13/15
Lettre d'orientation du Gouvernement dans le cadre du Programme
National d'Appui .tux Services Agricoles (PNASA 2)



67
2.2.7 Liaison simergisiuesentre le PNASA II et la politique agricole
Le Gouvernement veillera a ce que le PNASA II, un des programmes majeurs de
l'amLnlioration de la production et de la productivite agricoles par le transfert des
acquis de la recherche vers le developpement et par la folmation des producteurs, cle
de voitte de la lutte contre la pauvrete rurale, soit mise en ceuvre en tissant des
liaisons synergiques avec les programmes touchant:
-    la liberalisation des fi1i6res agricoles notamment les secteurs cafe-cacao
-    la formation professionnelle agricole et la promotion  des jeunes
exploitants agricoles
-    les programmes de securite alimentaire, notamment la relance de la
production vivriere, la maaitrise de 1'eau et de l'irrigation
-    les programmes de developpement des productions animalees
-    les programmes de secuxisation fonciere, de gestion des terroirs et
d'equipement du milieu zural
-    la protection de 1'environnement et des ressources naturelles
-    l'appui aux producteurx  villageois dans le cadre de la privatisation des
entreprises du secteur agro-industriel (coton notamment)
-    la promotion du dv-eloppernent regional
-    le reseau des ONG et la diffusion des experiences reussies par celles-ci
-    le credit agricole et le r6seaL. des financements de proximite
-    les programmes de mod6rnisation agricole et la promotion de la
mecanisation
la valorisation des fernmes et des jeunes dans le secteur agricole
Conclusion
Pour le Gouvernement, les acti6ns d'appui des diff6rents partenaires au
developpement dans le cadre de la diffusion du progres technique et l'assistance aux
cooperatives agricoles en vue de l'amelioration de la production et de la productivitd
agricoles devront s'inscrire dans Il cAdre ci-dessus defini et etre compkmentaires,
avec de preference des cofinancements.
14115
Lettre dorientation du Gouvernement dans le cadre dua Progamme
National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (PNASA 2)



68
Le Ministre de l'Agriculture et                        Le Ministre de I'Enseignement
des Ressources Animales                                Superieur, de la Recherche et
de l'Innovation Technologique
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                           ' w
k#.~~~~Kou~uasiKONAN                                                   r
Le Miristre de i'Economie
n  46             et des Finances
N'goran NIAMIEN 
Lettre cd'oientation du Gatuvemnement dans le cadre du Programme
NatiorLal d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (PNASA 2)



Status of Bank Group Operations in C6te d'Ivoire
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 86
Active Loans
CI-PE-35655   IDA30790       1998   GOVERNMENT                        EDUC. & TRG SUPPORT                0.00      53.30             0.00         53.16        0.00       0.00
CI-PE-44912   IDAN0360       1998                                     URBAN LAND MGMT                    0.00       10.00            0.00          9.80        0.00       0.00
CI-PE-1194    IDAN0220       1997   GOVERNMENT                        RURAL LAND (PNGTER)                0.00      41.00             0.00         39.74        1.88       0.00
CI-PE-1212    IDA28430       1996   GOVERNMENT                        PRIVATE SECTOR DEVEL               0.00     180.00             0.00         17.32      -67.10      25.18
CI-PE-1214    IDA28930       1996   GOV. OF RCI                       INTEG HLTH SERV DEVP               0.00      40.00             0.00         35.39       10.19       0.00
CI-PE-40115   IDA27860       1996   GOVERNMENT OF COTE D'IVOI         RAILWAYS REHAB                     0.00      20.00             0.00          7.16        7.38       0.00
CI-PE-1184    IDA27540       1995   REP. OF COTE D'IVOIRE             PRIVATE ELECTRICITY                0.00      79.66             0.00         32.30       28.70       0.00
CI-PE-37575   IDA27040       1995   GOV'T OF RCI                      MUNICIPAL SUPPORT                  0.00       40.00            0.00         29.49       26.17       0.00
CI-PE-37581   IDA27490       1995   GOV'T OF RCI                      EXPORT PROMOTION AND               0.00        5.83            0.00          3.58        1.29         .87
CI-PE-1186    IDA26370       1994   GOVERNMENT                        LABOR FORCE TRAINING               0.00       17.00            0.00         12.38       10.61       3.42
CI-PE-1210    IDA25970       1994   GOVERNMENT                        RURAL SAVINGS                      0.00        2.20            0.00          1.10          .30      0.00
CI-PE-1187    IDA25030       1993   GOVERNMENT                        ECN MGMT TA                        0.00       17.00            0.00          1.48        -.35       0.00
CI-PE-1207    IDA23630       1992   GOVERNMENT                         PRIVATIZATION SUPPOR              0.00       15.00            0.00          3.91        3 .63        .77
Total                                                                                                    0.00     520.99             0.00        246.81       22.70      30.24
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 249.14            3,454.82            3,703.96
of which has been repaid:                   0.00            1,498.92            1,498.92
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 520.99            1,951.04            2,472.03
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                5.10                5.10
Of which repaid               :                0.00                5.10                 5.10
Total Undisbursed                :              246.81                 2.00              248.81
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU   highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
>G
Generated by the Operations Information System (OlS)



70
ANNEX IX
C8te d'lvoire
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-May-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1977/86               Gonfreville             0.00     .42    0.00    0.00    0.00      .42    0.00    0.00
1987/90               SIALIM                  1.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/93/96            COSMIVOIRE              3.07     .17    2.18    0.00    3.07      .17    2.18    0.00
1988                  IPS (IVC)               0.00     .83    0.00    0.00    0.00      .83    0.00    0.00
1989/93               AEF Pechazur             .18    0.00    0.00    0.00      .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/95/97            Block Cl-l l            0.00   43.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   42.24    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Multiproduit         .20    0.00    0.00    0.00     .20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96               BACI                    3.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  CIPREL                 12.08     .96    0.00    0.00   12.08      .96    0.00    0.00
1995                  FTG                     1.27    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.27    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Laborex                  .63    0.00    0.00    0.00     .63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Texicodi                 .85    0.00    0.00    0.00     .85    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Petro Ivoire        0.00    0.00     .77    0.00    0.00    0.00      .77    0.00
1996                  Bereby Finances         0.00    3.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.05    0.00    0.00
1996                  Multi-Produits          0.00     .40    0.00    0.00    0.00     .35    0.00    0.00
1996                  UA-IARD                 0.00     .31    0.00    0.00    0.00      .31    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   23.54   49.84    2.95    0.00   23.54   48.33    2.95    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  BLOCK Cl-Il RI 2        0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  BOA-Cl                  0.00     .14     .11    0.00
1997                  NOVOTEL-ABIDJAN         2.68     .54    0.00    0.00
1997                  TROPICAL RUBBER         3.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           6.11    5.68     .11    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 06123/98



71                                                      ANNEX X
Cote d'Ivoire at a glance                                                                12/15/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                      CCte  Saharan      Low- 
d'lvoire    Africa  income      Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          14.3      600     3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                                620      490       500                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                                  8.9      294      1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (I%)                                          3.0       2.7       1.7
Labor force (%) ^                                        5.4       2.6       1.7    ! GNPI                              Gross
eatlmate  available since 1989)                        ~~~~~~~~per                      primary
Most recent estimate(latest year availablesince1989                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)                  51       31        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          51        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  90        92       69                 A
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                24         -         -.               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                    63        47       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      49       43        34
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)      70       72       105               -   Cote d'lvoire
Male                                                    76       78       112                   Low-incomegroup
Female                                                  58       65        98                   L
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996                                       ___
Economic ratUos*
GDP (billions US$)                             3.9       7.0      10.1      10.0
Gross domestic investmentGDP                  22.4      13.0      13.5      13.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP             36.7      46.8      41.1      44.6               Openness of economy
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                     22.6      27.3      18.9      20.0
Gross national savings/GDP                    14.2      13.9       5.6       7.7
Current account balance/GDP                   -10.8      1.0      -5.0      -5.1
Interest payments/GDP                          1.5       9.2       3.9       4.7     Savings         .)            Investment
Total debVGDP                                 37.6    138.4    187.5    202.6                         \ /'
Total debt service/exports                     9.5      33.7      23.5      31.9
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ..    181.5    188.8
Present value of debt/exports                   ..         *     412.0    378.7
Indebtedness
1975-85   1986-96     1995      1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   1.0      1.2       8.0       5.9       5.7                   Cote d7voir
GNP per capita                       -3.5     -2.2       5.7       4.4       2.0                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        8.5       3.2       0.4      24.1       4.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)  1975  1985  1995  1996   1F-Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(%6 of GDP)I
Agriculture                                   28.2      26.5      28.8      27.6      0
Industry                                      17.0      19.7      20.0      212 2    20
Manufacturing                                 9.4      14.6     17.2      17.5     1t
Services                                      54.7      53.7      51.2      51.2      0                  93   94 95       9'
-20
Private consumption                           60.4      58.6      69.2      67.9    .30
General govemment consumplion                 17.0      14.1      11.9      12.1
Imports of goods and services                 36.6      32.4      35.7      38.3                   0 I    ---GDP
(average annual growth)                    1975-85  1986-96      1996      1996      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%J
Agricuture                                      1.1      3.0       9.1       1.4     25 T
Industry                                       6.0       1.0       4.7      15.0     20
Manufacturing                                10.3       0.8      0.8       7.4     15
Services                                       -0.3      0.2       8.7       5.1 s
Private consumption                            0.1       0.1       9.5       3.7           s 9     5  m
General govemment consumption                  0.2      -2.1      18.0       7.1     la
Gross domestc investment                       -8.9     -0.3      25.2      17.8 a    0
Imports of goods and services                   1.2      0.6      16.0      21.2
Gross national product                         0.3       1.1       8.6       7.2            -r-x0--Im               r
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
* There is a large number of immigrant workers in Cote d'lvoire, which explains the higher growth rate of labor than that of the populabon.



72
Cote d'lvoire
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1975     1985      1998      1996       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             50
Consumer prices                                11.4       1.8       7.7       5.0      40 I          
Implicit GDP deflator                           4.3       0.3       8.5       3.5     30
20
Government finance                                                                     10rs
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                   ,      32.7      22.1      22.5    -10       91    92    93    94    95    99
Current budget balance                                    5.2       1.2       2.8               -      GDP def.   -O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   2.9      -4.4      -2.8             i
TRADE
1975      1985     1995      1996       Exportancimportleve's(milLU1S)
(millions US$)
Total exports (fob)                           1,239     2,761     3,870     4,317     4.500
Cocoa                                                   887     1,102     1,371      4.000_
Fuel                                                      0        28       133      3,5000
Manufactures                                            728       934     1,037      3 3,000 t   
Total imports (cif)                           1,012     1,431     2,420     2,847     2,000 .
Food                                            ..      273       442       498    11,0.II
Fuel and energy                                         379       486       513    1
Capital goods                                   ..      446       683       747       -
Export price index (1987=100)                    42       145       184       176    j       0   91   92   93   94   95   95
Import price index (1987=100)                    41       115      207       223                   o Exports     uo Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       102       126        89        79
BALANCEofPAYMENTS
(millions US)1                                          1985      1995      1996       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 1,465     3,264     4,423     4,928       O                       L I  j i -
Imports of goodsand services                  1,561     2.261     3,595     4,127      -2l    |    l  92    3 !     95
Resource balance                                -96     1.003       828      801    I |  j!   I      I
.4-
Net income                                     -141      -666     -938      -893
Net current transfers                          -184     -270      -394       417    |6
Current account balance,                                                                                 i
before official capital transfers            421         67      -504      -509     iIa
Financing items (net)                           328       -40      728        547    j -12t
Changes in net reserves                          92       -27     -222        -39      14
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)               0        19      546       623
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   214.3    449.3    492.7    548.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975      1985      1995      1996    r 
(millions US$)                                                                      j Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,465     9,659    18,984    20,179
IBRD                                          73       965      1,573     1,303
IDA                                             1        7       813      1,025                          A
Total debt service                              142     1,114     1,046     1,587                   G .         81025
IBRD                                           6       126       334       292    |                             C:50
IDA                                             0        0         5         S 5     
Composition of net resource flows                           0                                     /          :           1840
Official grants                               17        16       188       176         F': 10228 (               /
Official creditors                            78        92       190       -45
Private creditors                            231         -1       14       109   IE 5127
Foreign direct investment                     69        29       155       137                       --
Portfolio equity                                0         0         3        3
World Bank program
Commitments                                   134      215       369       275      A-iBRD                        E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                 26        70       245       253      1 B - IDA  D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            1       44       199       181      C-IMF                         G-Short-term
Net fiows                                      25       26        46        72                 1-
Interest payments                               5       82       140       116
Net transfers                                 20       -57       -94        45
Development Economics                                                                                                    12/15197
* Of the total debt to private creditors, US$ 6800 million are puclic or publicly guaranteed debt, which will be rescheduled or reduced
by the London Club agreement in early 1998



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29635
MALI            f
*                             .%l'_   j_,>A#TeOgreI ^    {.t    .~,_,zC BURKINA  FASO                                                           DCOTEDIVOIRE
Twgml                  BURKINA   FASO                               ~~~~~~~REPARTITION  DES SITES DE RECHERCHE
*, _ '  , DU CENTRE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE
-10                      i            ,          ) iL5X* 0__s_                                                                        SUR L'ENSEMBLE DU TERRITOIRE NATIONAL                            lo.-
BI a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I)COIVERTURE DES EMISSION RADIO
Boo,ndh                                                                R0                       "                       * 9CHEF-LIEU DE DIRECTION RtGIONALE DU CNRA
A   STATION EXPERIMENTALE
GUINtE   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* P.E.S. (POINT D'ESTUDE SYS-TEME)
P PES. A C,R ER
41:   ~ ~ ~ ~~~A STATION DE RECHERCHE
0P.O.ACRtER
X   LABORATOIRE CENTRAL DU CNRA
El P.O. (POINT D'OBSERVATION)
R \  = |     ...................... t0  Johct  ondoukcu   ^  @   CHEF-LIEU DEDEPARTEMENTADMINISTRATIF
8'                                    151~~~~~~~~~~ M.nkon  ('                                                                                     CAPITALE D'ETAT                         8' 
-80 U (9Mcmkono ,,_' RM . 8 5~ '_ } ~}_  -----LI                                                              MITES DES DEPARTEMENT
fwsf,zt t> ,. l,*  TReofif~58wS . L .c. Iondos   t  -,    LIMITES DES REGION DU CNRA
-   ~      ~                                                                                     - - ,UMITES DES RETATS
Vovouo  Zwjenoolo@    ___.   Sakos
0  20  AO 60  80 10 120
r          6                                           ,                                                    I  I  I       I 0i
ngol.                                                                                             KIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROMETRES
IDI~~ e-ko.                                                      Tosl  A6VUAdO                *GHANA 
EL     leu,                                                                                                                             2.gII    1'          0'
md                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I       I 
-           -OI'' fH   -}MAURITANIE  I
Aglo-ille6                                      6 SENEGAL      "-'
6~~~~                                                   Titssa e ,                                           6- -~~~~~~~~I      s,-GMI
-~~~~'-   I          '"~~~~~~~~~~                          - ~~~NIGER15
LIBERIA        g              { , ,1                                          -  x                      ;; f -                     6EE   F-                        /  O,oc,*do,gos .   2 s 
LIBERIA                                                                                                                                           8 1t v6mDoboo  ep -  -  BIS|A*4/    GUINEE  > .   BURKINA FASO,.! j
i1 iJacqueaillo                                    LISNE?    7   C6TE                                         NIGERIA
SasRandra                                                                     "5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D'IVOIRE)
   /   (E)  5 - Sassondrel                                                       f      s S? | |        C S 00000IUBERIA'-:
a'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '0(7>  t'' (iJI .                              3    a            ee                                                                r                   - 1gf    0'IAijn 
O:CEAN  ATLANTIQUE                                   *
4                                                                                              0  \S     rV  S  ;   0 0 ff0  0v4  1I ff t f   t0    tt   S C.   . p1 5 
lUIN 199B



