Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3117 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Second National Agricultural Services Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 18, 1998 
CREDIT NUMBER 3717 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated June 9, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
sustainable agricultural growth through technological changes and institutional 
reforms (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of credits over a period of approximately eleven years to 
be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(D)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Agence Nationale d’Appui au 
Développement Rural (ANADER) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ANADER part of the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
(E)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Centre National de 
Recherche Agronomique (CNRA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CNRA part of the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
Page  2
(F)
the Borrower has contracted from the International Fund for Agricultural 
Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an amount of seven million fifty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,050,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) dated 
January 13, 1994, between the Borrower and IFAD; 
(G)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union (EU) a grant 
(the EU Grant) in an amount equivalent to five million two hundred thousand dollars 
($5,200,000) to assist in financing Part C.2 of the Project on terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the EU Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and EU;
(H)
the Borrower has contracted from the French Republic through its Fonds 
d’Aide et de Coopération (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount of fifteen million 
French Francs (FF15,000,000) to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the FAC Grant Agreement) dated October 29, 
1997, between the Borrower and the French Republic; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): "12.
'Participating Country' means any 
country that the Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 
of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and 'Participating Countries' means, collectively, all such countries.".
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“ANADER” means the Agence Nationale d’Appui au Dévelop-pement Rural 
established by the Borrower’s presidential decree No. 93-777, dated September 29, 
1993, amended by the Borrower's presidential decree No. 98-158, dated April 2, 1998, a 
Société Anonyme with a minority financial participation of the Borrower operating 
pursuant to its Statuts dated April 17, 1998;  
(b)
“ANADER Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association 
and ANADER of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the ANADER Project 
Agreement; 
Page  3
(c)
“ANADER Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ANADER pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)(i) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
ANADER Subsidiary Agreement;
(d)
“CAA” means Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement, a public financial 
institution of the Borrower; 
(e)
“CFA Franc” or “CFAF” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(f)
“CNRA” means the Centre National de Recherche Agronomique established as 
a Société Anonyme with a minority financial participation of the Borrower, and 
operating pursuant to its Statuts dated April 22, 1998; 
(g)
“CNRA Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
CNRA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CNRA Project Agreement; 
(h)
“CNRA Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CNRA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
CNRA Subsidiary Agreement; 
(i)
“Commission” means the ad’hoc Commission established by the Borrower’s 
Interministerial Arrêté No. 969/MEF/MINAGRA/MESRIT dated May 12, 1998, in charge of 
studying ways and means for an autonomous and sustainable financing of ANADER and 
CNRA;
(j)
“CTRs” means Comités Techniques Régionaux, or regional technical 
committees including all regional agricultural partners in the public and private 
sectors and a majority of farmers’ representatives;  
(k)
“Manual of Procedures” means the manual adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 
(e) of this Agreement, outlining policies, procedures and guidelines to be followed in 
the implementation of the Project; 
(l)
“MESRIT” means Ministère de l’Enseignement Supérieur, de la Recherche et 
de l’Innovation Technologique, the Borrower’s ministry responsible for higher 
education and scientific research; 
(m)
“MINAGRA” means Ministère de l’Agriculture et des Ressources Animales, 
the Borrower’s ministry responsible for agriculture; 
(n)
“MINICOM” means Ministère de la Communication, the Borrower’s Ministry 
responsible for communication  and media;  
(o)
“OPAs” means Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles which are 
cooperatives, unions of cooperatives and federations of cooperatives governed by the 
Borrower’s Law No. 97-721, dated December 23, 1997, relative aux Coopératives;
(p)
“Project Account” means any of the accounts referred to in Section 3.02 
of this Agreement; 
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
January 30, 1998, and February 11, 1998, between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(r)
“Special Account” means any of the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  4
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may: (i) for the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, 
open and maintain in CFA Francs two special deposit accounts (the ANADER Special 
Account for the purposes of Part A of the Project and the CNRA Special Account for the 
purposes of Part B of the Project) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment; and (ii) for the purposes of Parts C and D of the Project, open 
and maintain in CFA Francs two special deposit accounts (the MINAGRA Special Account 
for the purposes of Part C of the Project and the MINICOM Special Account for the 
purposes of Part D of the Project) in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2008, and ending June 15, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2018 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry 
out Part C of the Project through MINAGRA and Part D of the Project through MINICOM, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
technical, scientific and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and (ii) 
shall cause ANADER and CNRA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the ANADER 
Project Agreement and the CNRA Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of 
ANADER and CNRA therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable ANADER and CNRA to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project and cause ANADER and CNRA to carry out 
Parts A and B, respectively, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and Schedule 2 to the ANADER Project Agreement and the 
CNRA Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (i) make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a) and (4)(a) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to ANADER on a non-reimbursable 
basis under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ANADER; 
and (ii) make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories 
(1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement available to CNRA on a non-reimbursable basis under a subsidiary 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CNRA; such agreements to have 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
Page  6
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ANADER Subsidiary 
Agreement and the CNRA Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the ANADER Subsidiary Agreement and the CNRA Subsidiary Agreement, 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making 
available its counterpart contribution for the financing of the Project: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain in CFAF in CAA, an account for Part A of the 
Project (the ANADER Project Account), an account for Part B of the Project (the CNRA 
Project Account), an account for Part C of the Project (the MINAGRA Project Account) 
and an account for Part D of the Project (the MINICOM Project Account), all on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
deposit an initial contribution of: (i) CFAF one billion five hundred 
million (CFAF 1,500,000,000) into the ANADER Project Account; (ii) CFAF seven hundred 
million (CFAF 700,000,000) into the CNRA Project Account; (iii) CFAF one hundred forty 
million (CFAF 140,000,000) into the MINAGRA Project Account; and (iv) CFAF forty 
million (CFAF 40,000,000) into the MINICOM Project Account; 
(c)
thereafter, deposit into any of said Accounts such amounts as shall be 
required to replenish  each of the Project Accounts in a timely manner back to the 
level of the initial deposits referred to in paragraph (b) above; and 
(d)
ensure that the amounts deposited into each of said Accounts shall be 
used exclusively for payments made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services for the Project not otherwise financed by the Credit. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement and Schedule 1 to the ANADER Project Agreement and the CNRA Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B 
of the Project shall be carried out by ANADER and CNRA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
ANADER Project Agreement and the CNRA Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts C and D of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out said Parts of 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
Page  7
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts C and D for 
each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b)
ANADER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
ANADER Project Agreement; 
(c)
CNRA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CNRA 
Project Agreement; 
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ANADER or CNRA will be able to perform their respective 
obligations under the ANADER Project Agreement and the CNRA Project Agreement; 
(e)
ANADER’s Statuts referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of this Agreement shall 
have been amended, suspended, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of ANADER to perform any of its obligations under the ANADER Project 
Agreement; 
(f)
CNRA’s Statuts referred to in Section 1.02 (f) of this Agreement shall 
have been amended, suspended, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of CNRA to perform any of its obligations under the CNRA Project Agreement; 
Page  8
and
(g)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IFAD Loan, 
the EU grant, the FAC Grant, or any grant or loan 
made to the Borrower 
for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or 
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;  
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and 
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the ANADER Subsidiary Agreement and the CNRA Subsidiary  Agreement have 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ANADER, and the Borrower and CNRA, 
respectively;  
(b)
CNRA’s human resources have been streamlined, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(c)
CNRA’s opening balance sheet (bilan d'ouverture), audited by independant 
auditors acceptable to the Association, has been received and found satisfactory by 
the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the financial rehabilitation of the OPAs; 
(e)
the Borrower has adopted the Manual of Procedures in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; 
(f)
the Borrower, ANADER and CNRA have employed the independent auditors 
referred to, respectively, in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement , the ANADER Project 
Agreement and the CNRA Project Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and of Schedule 1 to the ANADER Project Agreement 
and the CNRA Project Agreement;
Page  9
(g)
the Borrower, ANADER and CNRA have each established an adequate financial 
management system  including accounting procedures,  satisfactory to the Association, 
to ensure proper monitoring of Project activities; 
(h)
the Project Accounts have been opened and the initial contributions of 
CFAF 1,500,000,000, CFAF 700,000,000, CFAF 140,000,000 and CFAF 40,000,000, 
respectively, referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement have been deposited 
into such Accounts; and 
(i)
the work programs for the Project and the corresponding budgets, referred 
to in Section 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and Section 2 of Schedule 2 to the 
ANADER Project Agreement and the CNRA Project Agreement, for the calendar year 1998, 
have been received and found satisfactory by the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the ANADER Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
ANADER, and is legally binding upon ANADER in accordance with its terms; 
(b)
that the CNRA Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CNRA, and is legally binding upon CNRA in accordance with its terms; 
(c)
that the ANADER Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and ANADER, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ANADER in 
accordance with its terms; and 
(d)
that the CNRA Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CNRA, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CNRA in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B. P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  10
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
By /s/ Moïse Koumoué Koffi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
80%
(a) for Part A of the Project
2,300,000
(b) for Part B of the Project
3,900,000
(c) for Part C of the Project
  800,000
(d) for Part D of the Project
  200,000
(2)
Vehicles and equipment:
100% of foreign 
expenditures
and 65% of local 
expenditures
(a) for Part A of the Project 
6,400,000
(b) for Part B of the Project
6,200,000
(c) for Part C of the Project
  900,000
(d) for Part D of the Project
  500,000
(3)
Consultants’ services
100% of foreign 
expenditures
and training:
and 80% of local 
expenditures
Page  11
(a) for Part A of the Project
6,000,000
(b) for Part B of the Project
  900,000
(c) for Part C of the Project
1,900,000
(d) for Part D of the Project
  200,000
 (4)
Operating costs:
40%
(a) for Part A of the Project
  900,000
(b) for Part B of the Project
  300,000
(c) for Part C of the Project
1,200,000
(d) for Part D of the Project
  500,000
(5)
Refunding of Project 
  400,000
Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
3,600,000
TOTAL
      37,100,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means incremental expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (a) under contracts for goods, 
civil works and training costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, (b) under 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each, (c) under contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each, and (d) for operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the effectiveness and cost 
efficiency of agricultural research and extension services with a view to achieving, 
on a long term basis, sustainable growth in agriculture, and (b) to foster the 
development of efficient agricultural research and extension services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
Page  12
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Support to ANADER 
1.
Strengthening of ANADER in order to make it a fully autonomous privately managed 
agency, with financial and human resources management decentralized at the regional 
level, through the construction/rehabilitation of infrastructure, the acquisition of 
equipment, the carrying out of a training program and the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
2.
Strengthening of agricultural extension services with a focus on women farmers’ 
needs, integrated pest management and sustainable soils management, through a 
participatory diagnosis approach, on-the-job training of staff at the administrative 
and technical levels, the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition 
of equipment. 
3.
Strengthening of ANADER's adaptive research program to reinforce interaction 
between farmers, researchers and extensionists, with a focus on women farmers’ needs, 
integrated pest management and sustainable soils management, through the improvement 
of the technical capacity of CTRs and on-farm research, the provision of technical 
advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
4.
Improving the capacity of ANADER to assist the OPAs in increasing their 
efficiency and access to market with a focus on cooperatives operating in an 
increasing liberalized environment, through the provision of technical advisory 
services, study tours, the acquisition of equipment and the carrying out of a training 
program.
Part B:
Support to CNRA 
1.
Strengthening the institutional, financial and human resources capacities of 
CNRA aimed at making it a fully autonomous privately managed agency, decentralized at 
the regional level, through the construction/rehabilitation of infrastructure, the 
acquisition of equipment, the carrying out of a training program and the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
2.
The carrying out of CNRA's research programs focusing on women’s and young 
farmers’ needs, related to food crops, livestock, fisheries farming, integrated pest 
management and sustainable soils management, through the acquisition of equipment, 
staff training and the provision of technical advisory services. 
3.
Fostering the coordination of CNRA’s activities between the research institutes 
in the territory of the Borrower and other regional and international research 
institutes, through the participation at scientific seminars, study tours and the 
implementation of scientific information systems and on intelligence survey system, 
the provision of technical advisory services, the carrying out of a training program 
and the acquisition of computer equipment.
4.
Improving the capacity of MESRIT’s Research Directorate to assist CNRA in the 
selection of priority research programs and activities consistent with those 
undertaken by other research institutes in the territory of the Borrower, through the 
acquisition of equipment, staff training and the provision of technical advisory 
services.
Part C:
MINAGRA 
1.
Carrying out of a test of MINAGRA’s Directorate of Planning decentralization 
strategy activities in three pilot regions (Bouaké, San Pedro and Korhogo), and 
setting up a matrix network of the analyses of the Borrower’s agricultural policies, 
through staff training, the provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of equipment. 
2.
The preparation and the carrying out of a national agricultural census and 
strengthening the capacity of MINAGRA’s Directorate of Statistics, Documentation and 
Computer Services to produce reliable and regular statistics on agriculture, through 
staff training, the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment. 
Page  13
3.
Strengthening animal genetic improvement, through institutional capacity 
building to the relevant OPAs, staff training, the provision of technical advisory 
services and the acquisition of equipment. 4.
Strengthening the enforcement capacity 
of MINAGRA’s Directorate of OPAs and Rural Credit to recommend and enforce cooperative 
regulations, through staff training, the provision of technical advisory services and 
the acquisition of equipment.
Part D:
Support to the Rural Radio Stations 
Establishing a support network to disseminate information concerning rural 
development, including technical, economic and environmental information as to 
agricultural production, and social and cultural information, through the 
establishment and operation of seven rural radio stations, the provision of technical 
advisory services, the carrying out of training program and the acquisition of 
equipment. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,680,000 equivalent for Part C of the Project and 
$410,000 equivalent for Part D of the Project, and 
Page  14
(b)
goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $330,000 equivalent for Part C of the Project and 
$280,000 equivalent for Part D of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $290,000 equivalent for Part C of the Project and 
$210,000 equivalent for Part D of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, computers and other office equipment related to Parts C and D of the 
Project may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the 
United Nations (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines and as specified in the Manual of Procedures.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Parts C and D of the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first three contracts for goods estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each for Part C and Part D respectively, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 , subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of  this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country"
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  15
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for specialized studies and training under Parts C and D of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for consulting 
firms and less than $50,000 equivalent per contract for individual consultants, may, 
with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts C and D of the Project for tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Parts C and D of the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and each contract 
procured through single source selection in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 
of this Section, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
For the purposes of carrying out Parts C and D of the Project, the Borrower 
shall apply the policies, procedures and arrangements specified in the Manual of 
Procedures and, except as otherwise agreed with the Association, shall not amend or 
waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Manual of Procedures in a manner which, 
in the opinion of the Association, would materially affect the implementation of Parts 
C and D of the Project.
Page  16
2.
The Borrower’s Prime Minister’s Office shall provide overall  supervision of 
Project activities, including guidance on policy and institutional issues affecting 
the execution of the Project. 
3.
Not later than October 31 of each year, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association, for its review and approval, draft detailed work programs and budgets in 
respect of Project activities for Parts C and D of the Project for the forthcoming 
calendar year,
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that, not later than December 31, 1999: (a) the rural 
radio stations included under Part D of the Project are established as autonomous 
legal entities with a majority participation of representatives of the localities 
concerned and with representatives from local administrations and structures 
supporting rural development; and (b) said entities establish an autonomous national 
coordinating structure in form and substance acceptable to the Association.  The 
Borrower shall also cause radio personnel and equipment and physical installations to 
be transferred, upon completion of works, to said rural radio entities which shall 
thereafter be responsible, with the assistance of MINICOM, for the management of 
personnel and the operation and maintenance of equipment and physical installations, 
in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
5.
Not later than December 31, 1999, the Borrower shall complete the plan for the 
financial rehabilitation of the OPAs referred to in Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement, 
and provide to the Association, for its review and approval, a completion report 
relating thereto.
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than October 31, 1998, furnish to the 
Association, for its review and comments, the results of the studies of the 
Commission; and (b) not later than January 1, 1999, implement the recommendations made 
by the Commission.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts C 
and D of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review jointly with the Association, ANADER and CNRA, by May 31 of each 
year, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
8.
Not later than July 31, 2001, or six months before the Closing Date, the 
Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, ANADER and CNRA, a 
comprehensive review to assess the progress achieved in the execution of the Project. 
Said review shall cover, inter alia, the following in order to determine:
(a)
Whether the overall performance of ANADER and CNRA is satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Association, whether ANADER and CNRA operate as autonomous private 
sector entities and whether the technical links between ANADER and CNRA are efficient.
(b)
Whether ANADER’s and CNRA’s entire staff have no longer the status of 
civil servants.
(c)
Whether ANADER has streamlined its human resources in accordance with the 
Page  17
objectives of the Program.
(d)
Whether ANADER’s and CNRA’s programs of activities are relevant to their 
clients, including target groups with low income.
(e)
Whether CNRA’s activities concerning research and production/marketing 
are clearly separated in terms of management and financial arrangements.
(f)
Whether the provisions of Section 4 of this Schedule have been complied 
with. In order to facilitate said comprehensive review, the Borrower shall prepare a 
report under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, in such scope and 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, and furnish said report to the 
Association not later than six weeks prior to said review.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) in the case of the ANADER 
Special Account, Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a) and (4)(a) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part A of the Project; 
(ii) in the case of the CNRA Special Account, Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b) and 
(4)(b) set forth in the said table in respect of Part B of the Project; (iii) in the 
case of the MINAGRA Special Account, Categories (1)(c), (2)(c), (3)(c) and (4)(c) set 
forth in the said table in respect of Part C of the Project; and (iv) in the case of 
the MINICOM Special Account, Categories (1)(d), (2)(d), (3)(d) and (4)(d) set forth in 
the said table in respect of Part D of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into each Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of the ANADER Special Account to CFAF 
600,000,000, in the case of the CNRA Special Account to CFAF 400,000,000, in the case 
of the MINAGRA Special Account to CFAF 180,000,000, and in the case of the MINICOM 
Special Account to CFAF 60,000,000, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for:  
(i)
the ANADER Special Account, shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to CFAF 
300,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A 
of the Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,800,000; 
(ii)
the CNRA Special Account, shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to CFAF 
200,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B 
of the Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,600,000;
(iii)
the MINAGRA Special Account, shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to CFAF 
90,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part C 
of the Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,400,000; 
and 
(iv)
the MINICOM Special Account, shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to CFAF 
30,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
Page  18
special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part D 
of the Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 700,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower, ANADER or CNRA, shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, the ANADER Project Agreement and the CNRA Project Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
Page  19
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
