                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 27308

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (PPFI-Q0860 IDA-31170)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.1 MILLION (US$ 50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE

                                     FOR A

            SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT




                                 December 30, 2003




AFTS4
Country Department 11
Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective September 2000)

                                  Currency Unit = FCFA
                                    FCFA 1000 = US$ 1.35
                                          US$ 1 = FCFA 740

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1    December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACRI   American Cocoa Research Institute
ANADER Agence Nationale d'Appui au Développement Rural (National Rural Development Support
       Agency)
APL    Adaptable Program Loan
CAP    Community Action Program
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CDD    Community-Driven Development
CFA    Communauté Financière Africaine (African Financial Community)
CG     Conseils Généraux (General Council) (council deciding departmental affairs)
CGIAR  Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CMR    Centres de Métiers Ruraux (Rural Professional Training Centers)
CNRA   Centre National de Recherche Agronomique (National Agricultural Research Center)
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
DO     Development Objectives
DPP    Direction de la Planification et des Programmes (Directorate of Planning and Programs)
DPROPA Direction de la Promotion Rurale et des Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles
       (Directorate of Rural Promotion and Agricultural Professional Organizations)
DSDI   Direction des Statistiques, de la Documentation et de l'Informatique (Directorate of
       Statistics, Documentation and Information Technology)
DTS    Droits de Tirage Spéciaux (Special Drawing Rights ­ SDR)
FIRCA  Inter-professional Agricultural Research and Advisory Fund (Fonds Interprofessionnel pour
       la Recherche et le Conseil Agricole)
FNDA   Fonds National pour le Développement Agricole (National Fund for Agricultural
        Development)
GDS     Gestion Durable des Sols (sustainable soil management)
ICB     International Competitive Bid
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IPMP    Integrated Pest Management Plan
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MESRIT  Ministry of Research
MINAGRA Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales (Ministry of Agriculture and Animal
        Resources)
MININFO Ministère de l'Information (Ministry of Information)
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NBF     Not Bank Financed
NCB     National Competitive Bid

PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PAM    Programme Alimentaire Mondial (World Food Program ­ WFP)
PARC   Programme National pour le Renforcement des Capacités (National Capacity Building
       Program)
PNASA  Programme National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (National Agricultural Services Support
       Program)
PNGTER Programme National de la Gestion du Territoire (Rural Land and Infrastructure
       Development Project) (CDD implementation program)
PNLS   Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA (National Aids Prevention Program)
PO     Producer Organization
PPE    Prêt Programme Evolutif (Adaptable Program Loan)
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
RCI    Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
REI    Réseau d'Etudes d'Impact (Impact Assessment Network)
SARS   Sites for Adaptive Research into Farming Systems
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
SIGFIP Système Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques (Integrated Public Finance Management
       System)
SLM    Sustainable Land Management
SYSPER SYStème PERmanent d'Enquête Agricole (permanent agricultural survey system)
ToR    Terms of Reference
UNHCR  United Nations High Commission for Refugees
VLPA   Village Level Participatory Approach
WFP    World Food Program

                                Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                              Country Director     Mamadou Dia
                               Sector Manager      Mary A. Barton-Dock
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Christian Fauliau

                                           COTE D'IVOIRE
                                       IVC:AGRIC. SVCS. II


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
    6. Sustainability                                                                16
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
    9. Partner Comments                                                              20
    10. Additional Information                                                       21
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
    Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       34
Map No. IBRD29635

Project ID: P037588                                                  Project Name: IVC:AGRIC. SVCS. II
Team Leader: Christian Fauliau                                       TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: IVC:AGRIC. SVCS. II                                      L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0860; IDA-31170
   Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                                      Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (85%); Central government
                            administration (10%); Media (5%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural policies and institutions
                            (S); Rural markets (S); Land management (S); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/18/1997                                     Effective: 12/17/1998                12/17/1998
     Appraisal: 02/27/1998                                         MTR: 09/01/2000                  03/21/2001
      Approval: 07/14/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T/MINISTRY OF AGRIC & MIN OF RESEARCH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Shigeo Katsu
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Christian Fauliau                              Christian Fauliau
ICR Primary Author:             Nicolas Kotschoubey


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
(Adapted from DCA and PAD)
The original overall objective of the Second National Agricultural Services Support Program (Programme
National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles ­ PNASA II) for its full 11-year duration was to support

sustainable agricultural growth through increases in farm-level productivity. To achieve this objective, the
core objectives of the first phase of the Program were to: (a) improve the relevance and cost efficiency of
agricultural research and extension services, and (b) ensure its financial sustainability through institutional
reforms that transferred decision-making on strategic and management issues, and an increasing share of
the financing of this system, to beneficiaries (farmers, farmers associations and other agricultural and
agribusiness investors). A principal component of this strategy was the continued support to the emergence
of efficient, autonomous Producer Organizations (POs).

PNASA II (the current Program), originally planned to run from 1998 to 2009, builds on a first
agricultural support project (PNASA I), which ran from 1994 to 1997. PNASA I had similar aims: to
establish responsive, cost-effective and autonomous agencies for agricultural research and extension,
largely owned and managed as private sector entities by their beneficiaries. PNASA I aimed to (i)
streamline and decentralize agricultural services, (ii) enhance the role of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Services (MINAGRA) in policy-making and monitoring of agricultural development; and (iii)
increase farmers' role in the policy-making process. PNASA I succeeded in streamlining the agricultural
services and initiating a process of farmers' empowerment, but largely failed to strengthen MINAGRA.
During PNASA I, three former agricultural extension agencies were merged into one without negative
social consequences, creating the National Rural Development Support Agency (ANADER). Linkages with
research institutions were strengthened, and a process of decentralization was initiated within ANADER to
give more operational decision-making power to field-level staff.

PNASA II was originally planned as an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), which required the program to
satisfy pre-defined targets or "triggers" for it to proceed from one phase to the next. These include, for
example, satisfactory performance of the extension and research organizations, status of employees as
contractual, not civil servant, etc. This ICR applies to the first three-year phase of PNASA II, originally
planned from December 1998 to December 2001, but due to political unrest in the country extended to June
2003.

The objective of the second phase of PNASA II (projected from 2004 to 2007) aims to consolidate the
achievements of the first phase, and the objective of the third phase (2008 ­ 2012) aims to complete the
transfer of financial responsibility to the shareholders/clients of the research and extension institutions to
ensure long-term sustainability.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The overall objectives were not revised, as the need to satisfy the food crop demands of Côte d'Ivoire, and
the country's need to increase its export crops production to secure a macroeconomic balance, remained
valid. However, in December 2001, two years after the first political coup, the Program was revised
slightly following a re-engagement program from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which supported
the implementation of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) through an updated Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The start of the civil war in September 2002 halted field operations in the rebel-held,
northern part of the country, and the full international portfolio support program was reviewed. In this
context the PNASA II ceased to be an APL, and the Bank decided to close the Program in June 2003.
However, the objectives continue to be relevant, and will be pursued through the activities of two other
projects: the PNGTER, a community-driven development project that will respond to farmers' needs using
the participatory approach, and the PARC, which will build capacity and supply services. Thus both
supply to and demand from farmers will be catered for. Although PNASA will be closed, both institutions
set up by the Program (ANADER and CNRA) will continue to exist.

The importance of ANADER in the post-conflict situation was demonstrated when it was contracted by the



                                                     - 2 -

United Nations High Commission for Refugees and the World Food Program to support the reintegration of
200,000 Liberian refugees in southwest Côte d'Ivoire. ANADER successfully supported the
implementation of the new emergency programs, with the support of rural radios and producer
organizations.

3.3 Original Components:
The Program had four original components, as described in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA),
which apply to all three phases of PNASA II. The four components are:

1)       Support to ANADER (US$116.6 million or 58 percent of Program costs)
The Program's main component aims to strengthen adaptive research, extension and support Producer
Organizations through (i) institutional reforms of ANADER (streamlining and transfer of at least 60% of
ownership and management authority to farmers' representatives); and (ii) investments in human and
physical infrastructure (investments, capacity building and training). The component would also support
building a sustainable financing system based on membership fees.

2)       Support to CNRA (US$61.3 million or 30 percent of Program costs)
The second component aims to support a newly created National Agricultural Research Center (Centre
National de Recherche Agronomique ­ CNRA) to be decentralized, privately owned and managed, like
ANADER, by its main clients. The Program also marginally aims to strengthen the Ministry of Scientific
Research to ensure the integration of agricultural research into the necessary strategic planning and
coordination of research programs at the national level. The Program aims to finance investments in
infrastructure, selected research programs (e.g., food and export crops, farming systems, natural resource
management, livestock and aquaculture), promote scientific networking, including the participation of
CNRA in regional and international networks, and other capacity-building activities such as training and
study tours.

3)       Support to key directorates of MINAGRA (US$20.9 million or 10 percent of Program costs)
The third component aims to support (i) the Central Planning Directorate, to carry out the decentralization
of its activities, on a pilot basis, in three of the twelve regional directorates of the ministry; (ii) the Statistics
Directorate, to carry out a national agricultural census and thereafter produce focused, reliable and regular
statistics; (iii) the Central Livestock Directorate, including the National Breeding Commission, to plan and
coordinate animal genetic improvement programs; and (iv) the Central Cooperative Directorate to
strengthen its policy-making and coordination activities. The Program aims to support staff training,
equipment and incremental, non-salary operating costs.

4)       Rural Radio Stations (US$3.2 million or 2 percent of Program costs)
The final component aims to support the dissemination of information on market price and agricultural and
environmental issues by radio and television programs, with seven new rural radios set up by the Ministry
of Information (MININFO). The Program will finance training, short-term technical assistance, equipment
and a percentage of the radios' operating costs. The long-term plan for achieving financial sustainability of
the rural radios is through community financing.

3.4 Revised Components:
After the violent political period, in August 2002 some modifications were made to the Program. As these
changes did not affect the Development Objectives (DO), they were agreed by the Bank's legal department,
and were not submitted to the Board for approval. First, as a result of a decrease in counterpart funding,
itself a result of a two-year critical political and economic situation and non-accrual status in the country,
the closing date was extended from December 31, 2001 to June 30, 2003.



                                                         - 3 -

Second, the IDA contingency budget line items (physical and price contingencies) were reallocated. The
total original IDA contingency amount was US$6.55 million as detailed in the PAD; in August 2002
approximately US$3.9 million remained in the IDA contingency accounts. It was agreed to reallocate this
amount to the four Program components as follows:
                  47.1% to ANADER (US$1.8 million)
                  34.1% to CNRA        (US$1.3 million)
                  14.5% to MINAGRA (US$0.6 million)
                   4.2% for MININFO (US$0.2 million)

Furthermore, a reallocation in which budgets were redistributed among components took place in August
2002, funds being taken mostly from works and consulting/training fees, and being reallocated to
operational costs.

Finally, although the existing components of the Program were not altered, Components 3 and 4 of the
Program were augmented as follows:

Component 3 Support to key directorates of MINAGRA
The following tasks were included:
·   Build the planning and monitoring capacity of the Rural Training and Promotion Directorate (DFPR),
    the National Agricultural Professional Training Institute (INFPA) and Rural Professional Training
    Centers (CMR).
·   Support the Farm Modernization Directorate (DME) to define a modernization policy, by supplying
    consultant services, acquiring information technology and holding seminars.
·   Support the Administrative and Financial Directorate of MINAGRA to finalize disbursement
    procedures, control and monitor public expenditure in the agricultural sector, and put in place a
    computerized system for the management of goods and human resources by supplying consultant
    services, acquiring information technology and holding seminars.
·   Build the capacity of the Agricultural Chambers (Chambres d'Agriculture) in their consular role
    (communication, agricultural policy, protection of producers' rights) at the regional level, by supplying
    consultant services, information technology, training, and by holding seminars.
·   Identify agricultural producers and members of Producers' Organizations, to promote a transparent
    representation, by supplying consultant services, training and by holding seminars.

Component 4 Rural Radio Stations
The following additions were made:
·   Establish a support network for the dissemination of rural information, including information on
    technical, economic and environmental information.
·   Support the Communication and New Technologies Directorate in setting up a support network
    through the creation of 11 rural community radio stations, by providing consultant services, a training
    program, and by purchasing equipment.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was not formally assessed by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG). However,
owing to simple and effective design, the Program, planned to last 11 years in three successive phases, and
planned to include decentralization, increased transparency, capacity building and added incentives to
produce, quality at entry is rated Satisfactory. The Program aimed at a fundamental reform of the



                                                    - 4 -

agricultural sector and at the greater inclusion of farmers and producers in the agricultural decision-making
process. It also aimed at the replacement of an inefficient, expensive and overstaffed government-controlled
agricultural research and extension service that operated in a top-down manner by a dynamic and flexible
one, owned and managed by the producers themselves. The aim of the new system put in place by the
Program is to ensure excellent communication between producers on one hand and researchers and
extension workers on the other, leading to better overall performance of the sector. This system was the
first of its kind in Africa, and was an innovative and bold move by the Bank.

The legal instrument creating the new ANADER (September 1993) and CNRA (April 1998) were both
passed in Parliament unanimously, indicating the popularity of the proposed reforms, the extent to which
they were overdue, and the degree of consistency with the Government's priorities. PNASA II is consistent
with the Bank's CAS for Côte d'Ivoire, which is to reduce rural poverty, protect natural resources and
promote private sector development. Being agricultural in nature, the Program had potentially considerable
impacts on land use, including impacts from pesticides. For this reason, an Integrated Pest Management
Plan was created and put into application. Aside from Pest Management and Environmental Assessment,
no other environmental or social safeguards were triggered. The Program correctly assumed at inception
that an APL would be the preferred financing mechanism for the second and third phases of the Program ­
it could not reasonably have foreseen the civil unrest that disturbed the country, dividing it in two, and
resulting in suspension of Bank disbursements for over half of the Program duration. This eventually
resulted in a re-engagement by the World Bank through an updated CAS, in which the PNASA II could no
longer be an APL.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome is rated "Marginally Satisfactory" because the Program met its major defined
objectives within or ahead of the time anticipated, but failed on its minor objectives. The four main
objectives set for the current phase, defined as "triggers" under the APL, were fully met:
(a)       Satisfactory performance of ANADER and CNRA;
(b)       All ANADER and CNRA staff are contractual (non-civil servant);
(c)       ANADER has streamlined its human resources (40% government-owned, 60% privately owned);
and
(d)       ANADER's and CNRA's programs of activities are relevant to their clients, including vulnerable
groups (women, the young).
These four triggers, which represent the major institutional reform, realized successful regional
implementation. The two main objectives of reforming and strengthening ANADER and CNRA, which
together represent 88 percent of Program costs, were successfully achieved, and both ANADER and
CNRA are currently functioning in the southern part of the country. They were also functioning
satisfactorily in the northern part of the country before the war in September 2002, and, owing to their
decentralized and independent nature, have also managed to maintain a certain momentum there. The
Program has additionally implemented self-financing mechanisms, which is a creditable result, and which
will lead to increased sustainability. During the crisis, ANADER and CNRA became convinced that
working with civil society and POs was the best approach to mitigate the negative impact of the conflict.
Training and study tours took place on a regular basis to build capacity, and management systems were put
in place. Furthermore, the Program managed to set up Rural Technical Committees (CTR) and Sites for
Adaptive Research into Farming Systems (SARS), available to both ANADER and CNRA. CTRs are
regional decision-making and planning organizations, which utilize the participatory approach to decide and
prioritize agricultural development activities, thereby serving the newly decentralized structure. SARS are



                                                      - 5 -

on-farm research units, in which farmers decide, in participation with extension workers and researchers,
what research to carry out at farm level, leading to highly relevant research, which has immediate
applicability and usefulness to the farmers. SARS were developed in Latin America, and the knowledge
was transferred to the PNASA through study tours. Both CTRs and SARS were highly innovative and
successful, and 54 SARS were created. The establishment of the Impact Study Network (REI), which is a
unique tool in West Africa to measure the impact of development activities, was another successful creation
of the project.

One trigger was partially met:
(e)      CNRA's activities concerning "research and production/marketing are clearly separated in terms of
management and financial arrangement" were partially met. This objective refers to CNRA's marketing of
crops produced on its 3,000-ha estate ("patrimoine"), the objective being that revenue from this activity
would not be used to cover research costs. Because of the political crisis and the overall shortage of funds,
however, CNRA did finance some of its research with revenue originating from its estate early in the
project, although the percentage of funding from this source at the end of the project is not known.

Two triggers were not met:
(f)      Establishment of Rural radios ; and
(g)      Establishment of a national coordinating structure by the Rural Radio entities. Although these
objectives were not met, bidding documents were prepared, and construction of the buildings to
accommodate the transmission equipment for the radio stations was completed.

Finally, the national team succeeded in implementing pilot projects under MINAGRA at a regional level (in
the government-controlled, southern area), but activities were sporadic, did not cover the entire territory,
and disbursements were only partially made. This was in part because of the extreme socio-political
difficulties that brought the Ministry-managed components of the Program (MINAGRA and MININFO) to
a standstill during two-and-a-half years of implementation. ANADER and CNRA, being autonomous,
decentralized and privately managed, were not delayed to the same extent by the problems.


4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs of the Program are given for each of the four components:

1)       Support to ANADER (US$ 68.78 million disbursed)
This component received the most funding, was arguably the most successful, and is rated "Satisfactory."
Its achievements can be broken down according to specific subcomponents:

(a) Institutional Reform
Institutional reform was one of the greater and most durable achievements of the Program. It resulted in the
creation of an autonomous, mixed-ownership and privately managed extension agency, which was the first
of its kind in Africa, and was an innovation for both Côte d'Ivoire and the Bank. It was eventually copied
in other west African countries. This process took place in several steps:

(1)      ANADER was created under PNASA I by merging three extension agencies, which were
         inefficient, expensive, and under "top-down" management. It was largely equivalent to the former
         three government agencies that it had been created from, although improvements in the
         participatory approach, PO participation and cost reduction immediately started to be felt. In order
         to give farmers some decision-making power, farmer representatives were placed on the Board
         (40% representation), although it took time for the farmers to assume decision-making power.



                                                    - 6 -

(2)     By April 1998, a law was passed in the National Assembly giving ANADER (and CNRA) the
        legal status of private entities, being 40% owned by Government and 60% owned by farmers and
        other private sector members. This was an innovative step, which was arrived at after much
        negotiation. ANADER became a private company ("société à économie mixte"), and the staff was
        presented with the option of being recruited by ANADER, or of staying with the government;
        employees who chose to work for ANADER (which represented the majority) lost their civil
        servant status, and became employees in the private sector. Although it led to 200 layoffs, it did
        not affect the activities of the remaining staff, and contributed to an overall improvement of staff
        quality. Staff was motivated to find financing for extension activities, and ANADER went so far
        as to send, with its own funds, three trainees to France to study the partnership between the
        producer organizations and the Conseils Généraux (CG). It also demonstrated that the State could
        be retrenched from the execution of agricultural services while continuing to be the sole finance
        provider, and that the "publicly financed/privately managed" agricultural services strategy can be
        successfully implemented.
(3)     A significant reinforcement of the situation came in 2000 when CNRA refused to accept a
        government-appointed director, and compelled the general shareholders assembly to designate a
        new board, which a new General Director. Following this, a government-appointed director was
        not imposed on ANADER, which also elected its own director.
(4)     The final significant step, agreed on at the mid-term review (MTR) in March 2001, was financial
        and administrative decentralization to the 10 regions, and the adoption of the CDD approach
        through the PNGTER, creating quasi-autonomous branches of ANADER. The MTR included a
        workshop, attended by 100 people, on the Bank's rural portfolio. The Government and the Bank
        agreed on the basic reforms to introduce in agricultural services delivery, which were: (i)
        decentralization of the sustainable financing mechanism once it is established; (ii) contracting of
        services by beneficiaries; (iii) allowing competition between ANADER, CNRA, NGOs and local
        consultant firms; and (iv) contracting the strategic extension and research activities by the
        government to the service delivery institutions. To face the new challenge of contracting and
        competition, ANADER decided to reinforce the subject matter specialists, who would respond
        directly to the farmers' demands. However, the political problems delayed the implementation of
        the new reforms.

As such, the first aim of this component was met, giving the producers the option of choosing a support
service, deciding the objective they wanted to attain, evaluating the result and opting to re-utilize the
service. This was in spite of the turbulent political environment, a coup d'état in December 1999, the
suspension of Bank and other external disbursement, and the reduction in government counterpart funding
resulting from the crisis, combined with the rigidity of the Integrated Public Finance Management System
(SIGFIP). From December 2000 to January 2002, Program implementation was Unsatisfactory. As the
ANADER and CNRA were partially privately financed, the difficulty of working with the SIGFIP was
mostly felt by MINAGRA and Radios Rurales.

Suspension of disbursements and counterpart funding continued to December 2001, leading to few
developments in the time period December 1999 ­ December 2001 with the exception of further reform in
the agricultural sector in December 2000 when ANADER restructured its central office, leading to the
creation    of  four    new     Directorates    (Extension/on-farm    research,   Livestock,   Crops   and
Training/communication). Specialists were appointed to the regions for each Directorate, which greatly
improved the response of ANADER to farmer requirements through the participatory approach. On-farm
research conducted in the SARS also improved the response of ANADER. At the same time, ANADER
improved its intervention mechanism by mass extension programs and the use of agricultural counselors,
contact groups, economic interest groups, rural development facilitators, technical specialists, and gender


                                                    - 7 -

and development groups through the CTRs. In all, ANADER created 737 participatory global diagnoses.

In October 2001 the National Assembly passed, at unanimity, a law defining the National Fund for
Agricultural Development (FNDA), a framework law defining the sustainable financing mechanism for
agricultural services (research, extension, agricultural training and support to POs). During this period,
negotiations also started between the Government and the IMF, the World Bank and other donors to resume
cooperation with Côte d'Ivoire.

By April 2002, Program implementation again became Satisfactory, after over two years of political
difficulties. The new government changed the management of ANADER, in a process that was correctly
and transparently implemented according to the rules of the Bank. It was a demonstration that ANADER
had become an autonomous institution working in partnership with the Government, rather than under its
command. The new management team was very efficient and strongly committed to completing the
decentralization process and to implementing agricultural services. ANADER's sustainability was well
established, regional technical review committees and research organizations were implemented on a
sustainable basis, providing regular and efficient guidance for extension programs. ANADER also
reinforced its direct collaboration with producers by improving and increasing the number of SARS, and
succeeded in obtaining contracts with the major cotton producers association (URECOSCI).

(b) Agricultural Extension
ANADER promoted the participatory approach with farmers, which was initiated in PNASA I (1994 ­
1997). It responded to farmers' roles by providing advice on new technologies, new crops and marketing
and information of commodity prices e.g., coffee price to farmers and farmers' organizations, which helped
farmers receive 60 ­ 70 % of international coffee prices outside of crisis times.

As part of the Sustainable Land Management (SLM) strategy, a program of sustainable cocoa production
with the support of the American Cocoa Research Institute (ACRI) was carried out in Abengourou. A field
day was held, during which the farmers discussed the results of coffee market liberalization and how to
contend with cocoa market liberalization. Cocoa yields were improved by the introduction of new varieties,
clonal coffee and hybrid cocoa, and a vast campaign of regeneration of old plantations. Overall, the results
for coffee and cocoa farmers were an increase in revenue of US$60 per farmer in the period 2001 - 2003.

ANADER and PNGTER teams increasingly worked together at the field level. An innovation introduced by
ANADER, with the support of EnterpriseWorks, an international NGO, was the pedal pump for
small-scale irrigation. ANADER trained five craftsmen to make the pumps, and 130 pumps were made and
successfully sold to farmers.     Initial evaluation showed that revenue from vegetable crops could be
multiplied by three with the adoption of the pedal pumps, as a result of larger cultivable areas and
increased yields. This improvement was particularly felt by women and young farmers. It further promoted
technical innovations such as on-farm coffee nurseries in tunnel-greenhouses, seedling production through
mini-fragmentation (258 producers trained), use of bio-pesticides, zero-till methods, sustainable soils
management and new varieties of cocoa seeds. ANADER promoted the domestication of food and forage
varieties, and crop/livestock integration. The achievements were an average 38% increase in yields in
coffee, cocoa, rice, plantain and cassava (see Annex 1), and a total of 575,000 farmers were involved.

In February 1999 a workshop on Village-Level Participatory Approach (VLPA) was held, which made
propositions to improve the village action plans, to be monitored by village committees. The focus on
women and farmers' needs, capacity building, as well as integrated pest and soils management, were
clearly underlined in the annual work plan. Participation of women went from 8% to 30% since PNASA's
inception, and 720 women groups were aided. The participatory approach became the routine method of


                                                     - 8 -

ANADER operation, and regional technical review committees and research development organizations
were implemented on a sustainable basis, providing regular and efficient guidance for extension programs.
Two management support centers were created and 162 producers were given management support.

By June 2000, the decentralization process was very advanced, in part owing to the budgetary cuts that
forced ANADER to delegate responsibility increasingly to the regions. The regions accepted more
responsibility in the management of the local programs and of their own budgets. This was facilitated by
connecting the regional directorates to the internet, which greatly improved communications between
Program headquarters in Abidjan and the regional offices. These achievements are in spite of significant
slowing down of Program activities resulting from the coup d'état of December 1999, and the resulting
reduction of government counterpart funding.

By December 2000, 100 villages were involved in the VLPA, and ANADER transferred 40 field staff to
URECOSCI, the biggest cotton federation, to carry out trials with the management of extension activities.
Simultaneously, the impact assessment network (Réseau d'Etudes d'Impact ­ REI), sponsored by
ANADER, published its results on the baseline survey it conducted from 1996 to 1999.

(c) Study Tours
Study tours were included to learn from similar experience in developing and industrialized nations. In
November 1998, as part of the SLM strategy, four Ivorians participated in a study tour to Colombia,
Brazil, USA, Indonesia, Malaysia and Cameroon. After the tour, the Ivorians revised the SLM strategy
designed for PNASA II to include the lessons learned. The implementation of the strategy in Côte d'Ivoire
was started by holding a regional seminar in Korhogo in December 1998 with the participation of the Bank.
The pilot case in Korhogo was reproduced in the nine other ANADER regions. Separately, three PO
members went to France, Belgium and Morocco to study agricultural research financing. In 1999, seven
beneficiaries participated in a seminar on building PO capacity in the USA, nine went to Colombia to study
coffee PO structures and three traveled to Burkina Faso to study farmer organizations. In 2000, a study
tour was organized for farmers' organizations to Ghana (nine participants), and to study cooperatives in
France (four participants). These study tours built capacity in Côte d'Ivoire and helped in the elaboration
of a comprehensive regional action plan agreed by all the partners, to be monitored by a local committee
including all the local partners. Finally, a very fruitful visit to France to the "Conseils Généraux" (CG) was
organized to study the agricultural extension system and how it could be contracted under its decentralized
structure.

(d) Advisory Role
ANADER's advisory role included promoting the farmer-to-farmer extension strategy and the exchange of
good practices between farmers. The generalization of farmers' field days and the systematic use of rural
radios was identified to contribute to the achievement of this challenge. The VLPA was increasingly used ­
a total of 300 villages were covered in 1999 and 500 villages by 2000. ANADER used a diagnostic
conducted by a joint ANADER / NRM team open to other projects and NGOs, which improved the quality
of intervention of ANADER staff. The strategy implemented in Korhogo and Abengourou, with a vital role
played by farmers' organizations, permitted the development of suitable technologies including live fences,
cover crops with Mucuna (green manure), Pueraria (a leguminous cover crop), and biopesticides made
with neem trees, papaya, and pepper (7,400 growers were assisted, of which 55% were women). ANADER
visited 20 coffee and cocoa cooperatives, elaborated an action plan to improve quality of cocoa, and
prepared the organization of cocoa exports.

ANADER carried out an HIV/AIDS prevention strategy through training of trainers and the
implementation of an AIDS training program for its staff and for rural populations, agreed to by the


                                                       - 9 -

National Aids Prevention Program (PNLS) and the Bank. It installed 66 committees, one in each zone of
the country, in addition to 3,276 village committees (with contraceptive sale points). Owing to its proximity
to rural populations, ANADER also started cooperation with the national AIDS orphans program team to
support rural families affected by AIDS.

As regards OP support, ANADER succeeded in facilitating implementation of the new cooperative law
through training and information, and incorporated 612 new OPs, in cocoa, cotton, rice, food crops, palm
oil, livestock and others, comprising 421,456 members. It also facilitated 13 cooperatives in the
coffee-cocoa sector in accessing the market. However, overall ANADER support remained weak in
facilitating OP access to market, essentially due to the failure of the national training system to provide
realistic and pragmatic training on understanding market access.

In October 2002 the government of Côte d'Ivoire officially installed the FIRCA, which aims at permanent
and sustainable financing of research, to be financed by membership fees of POs. This fund, available to
ANADER, and made possible by the FNDA law is a great benefit to the sustainability of the Program, and
will result in improved performance of the various sectors ("filières").


2)        Support to CNRA (US$14.9 million disbursed)
This component received the second-largest amount of funding, and also achieved overall Satisfactory
results. Its achievement can be broken down by specific subcomponents:

(a) Institutional Development
The CNRA was created under PNASA I by merging four research agencies. Similarly to ANADER, by
April 1998, the CNRA obtained the legal status of private entity, with Government owning 40% of the
shares, giving farmers and other private sector members great influence on decisions of the Board. In order
to adjust to its new legal status, the CNRA had to restructure its human resources, laying off 608 people
and recruiting new staff, which was managed without social distress. Achieving financial and
administrative autonomy, and decentralizing its activities, were CNRA's better achievements.

By June 1999, the CNRA became legally and financially sound, after the repayment of the former
institutions' debts. All the managers at central and regional level were nominated and scientists were
recruited locally and started work on the new programs.

In spite of significant slowing down of Program activities after the coup d'état of December 1999 and the
reduction of government counterpart funding, the CNRA succeeded in maintaining momentum in some
activities owing to its ability to generate revenues from sales of production from its own estate, which
continued until December 2000. In June 2001, the CNRA was generating 80% of its operational budget
from marketing its produce, and at closing, it was generating 20% of its revenue from private sector
contributions, and had started to develop an internal system of monitoring and evaluation. However,
because of a failure to decentralize management and a lack of clarity in financial management between
research activities and production activities (see Trigger "e"), Program implementation was rated
Unsatisfactory until June 2001.

By April 2002, Program implementation once again became Satisfactory, after more than two years of
political crisis. The CNRA completed its reform, moving from public entity to decentralized private
organization, and completed its work plan.

In October 2003, the government of Côte d'Ivoire officially installed the FIRCA, which aims at perennial


                                                   - 10 -

and sustainable financing of research, to be financed by membership fees of POs, through the payment of a
"per kilogram" fee on mainly export production. This fund will be available to CNRA. The project was
rated "U" at closing because of the slow pace of getting the financing mechanism in order (FIRCA was
established after project closing). Although the project only covered half the country, CNRA was not
affected as it is a decentralized, and partially self-funded, agency.


(b) Research
By June 2000, the CNRA had completed its research planning process in close collaboration with all
research institutions and beneficiaries involved, and also completed the exhaustive stock taking of the
existing technologies in Côte d'Ivoire and in the sub-region. In December 2000, CNRA implemented the
research program using more than CFAF 200 million allocated to field research activities (US$270,000).
One criticism of CNRA is that although it generated remarkable results, or adapted them to local
conditions, it should have carried out economic impact studies for its research results, in order to generate
interest from a wider range of funds. By October 2002, CNRA reinforced its direct collaboration with
producers by increasing the number and quality of SARS, supplying seed stock for cereals (maize, rice),
building capacity, training interns, and selecting high-yielding and disease-resistant crop varieties. CNRA
launched new varieties of cotton, new hybrid varieties of robusta coffee, mastered the production of
inoculum of soybeans and methods of integrated pest management against mango parasites and cocoa
fungus. CNRA carried out three first-generation research programs on cocoa/coffee/cola, a program on
production systems in forestry zones, and one in lowland zones. It developed live hedges from Ziziphus and
other thorny species and promoted the regeneration of coconut plantations in the Abidjan region using
high-performance hybrids associated with leguminous green manure species. CNRA promoted the links
between research and extension, and identified time saving and reduction of difficulty as the two key fields
of improvements, and the two fields most likely to prevent the young from leaving agriculture. Pedal pumps
for irrigation represent one innovation that answers to both these aims.

(c) Scientific Networking, Training, Study Tours
From Program inception, the CNRA started developing national and international partnerships for
agricultural research. By December 1999, it had successfully invited research managers from 12 African
countries to visit Côte d'Ivoire during an agricultural exhibit, to initiate collaboration on common interest
programs. In December 2000, CNRA signed collaboration agreements with IRAG in Guinea, Katholiek
Universiteit van Leuven in Belgium (field trials and food-crop system stabilization), and Gembloux
University in Belgium (dynamics of agrarian system and food security in cotton growing areas). CNRA
also signed a great number of conventions with private sector and agro-industries, including ANADER. It
collaborated with ANADER in terms of identifying smallholder needs, in joint programs (e.g., rubber, palm
oil and cocoa culture), in joint research and development, and in introducing new technology via the SARS
network. It organized farmers' field days in Abengourou on sustainable cocoa production techniques
(attended by 80 farmers). In July 2000, CNRA started editing a newsletter, CNRA-INFO, presenting the
most relevant research results and activities.

A significant amount of training and capacity building was achieved: (i) 25 researchers were trained in
scientific communication techniques; (ii) 80 interns were enrolled in various research activities, (iii) four
scientists working on farming systems were trained in Brazil and France; (iv) two workshops involving
more than 50 scientists were organized locally; and (v) two staff members were trained in program analysis
tools in Washington DC. In June 2000, CNRA financed training of farming system researchers in
Madagascar and Brazil and hired consultants to design a more adequate program for small equipment and
processing.




                                                       - 11 -

The sub-component did not succeed in building infrastructure or in strengthening the Ministry of Research.
This ministry did not carry out its advisory role towards CNRA, which carried out this work by itself.


3)       Support to key directorates of MINAGRA (US$2.0 million disbursed)
The third component of the Program, the reform of MINAGRA, was achieved with limited success, and is
therefore rated Unsatisfactory. Certain results are however noteworthy:

(a) Decentralization of Central Planning Directorate
The central planning directorate of MINAGRA worked successfully to transfer financial responsibility as
well as scientific and administrative autonomy to three pilot regional directorates (Korhogo, Bouaké and
San-Pedro), which produced a regional diagnostic and local Monitoring and Evaluation document.
However, the participatory approach was missing and the technical approach was weak, demonstrating the
missing skills at the regional directorate level. The agreed supervision mission recommendation was
therefore to improve the skills mix and provide specific training for a decentralized participatory approach.
While owing to political events the Program rating changed from Satisfactory to Unsatisfactory and
activities came to a halt, the Program defined implementation procedures for the three new regional
directorates in the annual work plan. By October 2002, after prolonged interruption, MINAGRA resumed
its activities, which were accurately focused on poverty reduction. However, it was revealed that staff skills
to implement decentralized participatory planning and monitoring were weak. Furthermore, although
MINAGRA agreed in principle to the work plan elaborated, it could not be implemented because of civil
troubles.

(b) Support Statistics Department and carry out Census
For the duration of the Program, the Statistics Unit of MINAGRA prepared and carried out an agricultural
census, the process being punctuated by successes and delays. The Unit benefited from the recruitment of
ten statisticians from the national budget and consultants appointed by the FAO, which fielded a mission in
November 2000 to supervise the details of the census. By April 2003, the national census produced its first
documents. The collaboration built between the Bank to support the preparation, the EU to finance the bulk
of the operating costs and the FAO to technically support the national staff worked well. However, the
national crisis stopped the regular disbursement to correctly process the data collected, continue the
recurrent work activities.

(c) Plan and Coordinate Animal Genetic Programs, Central Livestock Directorate
In June 2000, a workshop was organized to clarify the implementation of the livestock strategy, with the
support of a World Bank livestock specialist. Although the Program was interrupted by the civil trouble,
by October 2002 the census of the national cattle and sheep herd was started, the study on genetic
improvement systems was completed, and the animal genetic improvement program through institutional
capacity building resumed with the re-engagement of negotiations between POs, MINAGRA and CNRA.
However, the Program was closed before the conclusion of negotiations and implementation of a
sustainable institution, managed by POs.

(d) Strengthen Policy-making and Coordination Activities of the Central Cooperative Directorate
This component was only partially implemented. The new cooperative law started to be implemented with
the creation and implementation of the regional cooperatives agreement committees. A total of sixteen
cooperatives were created according to the new law. The directorate of MINAGRA in charge of the
support to farmers' organizations was very active in supporting the implementation of the new cooperative
law. However, this directorate (DOPAC), despite the Bank's advice, failed in not implementing PO
members' identification to build the foundation for POs democratic election. Political interference was high


                                                     - 12 -

and it was one of the main causes of the cocoa sector reform failure.

The components added during the mid term review were not implemented due to the grave political trouble
immediately thereafter and because both MINAGRA and MININFO were very susceptible to changes in
government policy, as they were both under ministerial control.

4)       Rural Radio Stations (US$0.04 million disbursed)
Unfortunately, owing to the difficulties described above, and to the failure of this Ministry to take
decisions, this component was not successful in the dissemination of information, little training was carried
out and no equipment was purchased, making it Unsatisfactory.

Rural Radios received the least funding, although their purpose, to disseminate information, was strategic.
It made some progress towards attaining its goal, however it did not meet its final objective. MININFO
(later renamed MINICOM) prepared the procurement of goods and organized field visits to select the sites
for the new rural radios, it held a training seminar for rural radio staff, it discussed the rural radio strategy
with communities, and organized a workshop on the use of existing rural radios in support to rural
development. By June 2000, MININFO had identified the sites for the new rural radios, and by December
2000, it had recruited a procurement specialist and a rural radio expert to prepare the bidding document.
Unfortunately this was followed by civil unrest and suspension of disbursement, and the Rural Radios
component came to a halt. However, when the situation was restore to normal, MININFO changed the
national team for this component in the hope of quickly implementing what had been planned, although this
was not completed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Economic Rate of Return was not calculated for PNASA II because the Program was originally
planned to operate until 2009, and that these economic calculations were to be carried out for the overall
Program (in 2009). Furthermore, institutional reform, which is the principal aim of the Program, and which
was achieved, is not directly associated with economic return, although in the long run this leads to
increased production.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated for the PNASA II for the same reasons as in (4.3) above.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the PNASA has been substantial, as it restructured government
ministries, and was responsible for the creation of economic mixed service companies e.g., ANADER and
CNRA, which re-oriented agricultural extension and research agencies into demand-driven,
producer-owned, self-funding organizations. The Program changed the ownership structure of the
agricultural research and extension services, by ensuring that at least 60% of its shareholders were vested
in the industry, as a self-regulating means of ensuring that research and extension remain relevant to end
users. Another reform was the introduction of self-financing mechanisms for the extension and research
agencies. Finally, it provided training to numerous agents within government ministries and new agencies,
resulting in durable capacity building.

The Program redefined the mandate of public institutions towards their strictly public service role, it
privatized Government production units, and promoted the emergence of numerous POs in the agricultural
sector e.g., cooperatives, women's groups and farmer organizations.




                                                     - 13 -

As such, even in the prolonged absence of financing that this Program suffered, the institutional impact that
the Program had is considerable, because the entire structure of the industry has been profoundly
transformed, and will not be able to return to its former structure.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The factor that had the biggest impact on the Program was the coup d'état that took place in December
1999, the disturbance of which was compounded by the new government cutting budgets drastically,
forcing executing agencies to scale back their activities. Government counterpart funding was reduced
almost to nil, and Bank disbursements were suspended. This situation lasted until December 2001, putting
the Program at a near-standstill for two years. In April 2002, a re-engagement program from the IMF and
the Bank was adopted, and the Program resumed its activities on a large scale.

A second coup attempt took place in September 2002, followed by a civil war, in which rebel forces
occupied the northern half of the country, which is still under rebel occupation. One consequence is that
Program implementation was only partially possible in some regions of the country. By May 2003, despite
a peace agreement, the situation was still very difficult in the northern half of the country, and at going to
press was on the verge of erupting again.         The support from ANADER and CNRA to food crop
productivity was very important during this difficult period. The dissemination of new seeds and technology
(e.g., for rice, yam, cassava) as well as the support to the improvement of small livestock (poultry) were
crucial to respond to the increase in domestic market demand, with national population increasing by 3%
per year.

Finally, international commodity market prices have great influence on the positive outcome of the
Program, as revenue is based on the sale of agricultural production on the international market. These have
fluctuated widely on the short term; overall commodity prices rose at the beginning of the Program, to fall
sharply in December 1999. The price of cocoa and palm oil rebounded in 2002, but stayed very low for
coffee and cotton. In conclusion, the prices were highly unpredictable for producers.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
First, the public financial management system (SIGFIP) caused serious delays since its inception in June
1999. Its complex disbursement process affected the availability of funds to the Program and slowed
Program activities down, especially MINAGRA and MININFO.

Second, the new government drastically cut counterpart funding, resulting in the Program coming to a
near-standstill for an extended period. The government also failed to pay accruals in foreign debt, resulting
in suspension of funds from all donors, which seriously handicapped the Program.

Finally, the excessive control that the new government exercised over the Ministry of Information in order
to regulate the media severely delayed the implementation of the decentralized Rural Radio component. In
a similar way, government control slowed down the implementation of the MINAGRA component.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Three of the four implementing agencies carried out their duties enthusiastically, the result being evident in
the Program's positive start, and determination to conserve momentum in spite of suspension of
disbursements. A very substantial achievement was the legal change of status of the Government's
extension and research services (ANADER and CNRA) into private entities. A launching workshop was


                                                     - 14 -

successfully held, Program management responded to the difficult circumstances, and numerous staff were
deployed nationwide. As soon as the socio-political situation was normalized, the implementing agencies
eagerly resumed their activities.

The major failure was the inability to set up the Rural Radios component, although much work was put
into selecting the sites for their development, building on experience gained in Burkina Faso, building
capacity in the Ministry of Information, and preparing the bidding documents.


5.4 Costs and financing:
Originally this Program was planned as the first of three phases of the PNASA II, designed as an APL over
an 11-year period. Progression between phases of the APL would have taken place upon complying with
"triggers." However, after two years of profound political crisis, a re-engagement by the World Bank was
prepared, which supported PRSP implementation through an updated CAS. In this context, the PNASA II
could no longer be an APL.

Total financing for the full eleven-year period (three phases) was planned to be approximately US$602
million; the Government had committed US$214.6 million for the three Phases, IDA had committed
US$150 million, Beneficiaries had committed US$230.1 million, and other donors had committed US$7
million. The financing for the first phase (covered by this ICR) was planned to be approximately US$ 202
million from six sources; the budgeted vs. known actual amounts are detailed in the table below.

PNASA II ­ Phase I Original Budget and Funding Sources vs. Actual Funding (in US$000's)


    Lender/Donor                                        Budgeted            Actual          % Disbursed
                                                        Amounts           Amounts
    Government                                              $72,300              $56,410           78.02%
    Beneficiaries                                           $72,300

    External                  IDA                           $50,000              $29,670           59.34%
                              EU                            $ 5,300
                              IFAD                          $ 1,100
                              France                        $ 1,000
             Subtotal                                      $ 57,400
    Total                                                   $202,000


The original allocation of PNASA II Phase 1 funds per Component (US$000's) is as follows:



                                              IDA          OTHER               Total       % Total (1)
 ANADER                                    $    18,953      $    90,599        $ 109,552           54%
 CNRA                                      $    20,370      $    32,350        $  52,720           26%
 MINAGRA                                   $     2,970      $    16,746        $  19,716           10%
 Rural Radios                              $     1,239       $     1,572       $    2,811           1%
 Physical Contingencies                    $     4,253       $     6,351       $  10,605            5%
 Price Contingencies                       $     2,295       $     4,278       $    6,573           3%
 Total                                     $    50,081      $ 151,896          $ 201,977          100%
(1)     With the inclusion of Physical and Price Contingencies, total budgeted Program allocation was 58%
ANADER; 30% CNRA; 10% MINAGRA and 2% Rural Radios.



                                                      - 15 -

By December 1999, after a coup d'état and cut in the new government's budgets, the Program started to
face a lack of government counterpart funding, and this problem was aggravated over the next six months,
resulting in a slowing down of Program activities. At the same time, because of government non-accrual of
funds, the Bank suspended disbursements, further reducing the ability of the Program to operate.

As a result of the suspension in disbursements, ANADER and CNRA requested to increase the percentage
of IDA financing for certain categories of expenditure and reallocate funds.

Annex 2 provides further detail of the disbursements by IDA and Government/other sources by Program
component.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated "Likely" as the institutions that were established are permanent and are likely to
continue operations beyond the life of the Program. ANADER was originally created in 1993, and CNRA
was created in 1998, and both survive to this day. Both operate as professional private advisory and
research organizations, through a participatory mechanism with stakeholders, given which it would be
difficult for either ANADER or CNRA to go back to the former institutional arrangement. The staff is
contractual, was selected on a competitive basis, and renounced its civil servant status. Capacity was built
in both organizations on a continual basis, ensuring longevity of the Program. Both ANADER and CNRA
are majority-owned by the beneficiaries (farmers and producer organizations), who contribute to the
decision-making process.

The Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources is a permanent institution, and its achievements so far
(capacity building, decentralization, agricultural survey, livestock improvement) are close to completion.
Likewise, for the Rural Radio Component, the results are close to being completed (bid documents have
been prepared, buildings to house the radio equipment have been constructed), and the institution is likely
to remain active beyond the life of the Program. However, this is conditional on the return of peace to the
nation.

As regards financial sustainability beyond the life of the project, both ANADER and CNRA are to be
funded by membership fees from beneficiaries (60%) and contributions from the government (40%). The
CNRA is additionally funded by the sale of agricultural produce from its estate, although one of the aims of
the current phase is to end this crossover of funds. The fees are proportional to production, and are based
on a cash contribution per kilogram of product. This financing mechanism was voted into law in October
2001 by the National Assembly, and was passed at unanimity. The law defines the FNDA (National Fund
for Agricultural Development), a sustainable financing mechanism for the purpose of supporting
agricultural services (research, extension, agricultural training and support to POs) aiming to secure a large
part of the necessary funding from the beneficiaries themselves. This was a critical positive step, which for
the first time in a West African country opened the door for a real and sustainable financing system for
agricultural services. The FNDA is an "umbrella" law allowing the creation of agricultural funds, however
the FNDA itself does not finance projects. In December 2002, the Government created a fund (the
Inter-professional Agricultural Research and Advisory Fund - FIRCA), which was constituted by
ministerial "arrêté" in January 2003. The FIRCA plans to support the mechanism that sets and collects
membership fees from professional organizations, to fund research and extension. The law specifies that fee
collection is to be guaranteed by the State even if fees are not directed to the national treasury but to a



                                                     - 16 -

FIRCA private account. FIRCA will use 75% of its budget for operations to finance services to producer
groups participating in producing resources, and 25% of it budget would be directed to other small
producers or to support agricultural diversification ("non-traditional" crops like mangoes and cashew nuts).

The advantage of FIRCA over more traditional funding from the government is the possibility to involve
beneficiaries in decision-making, and to transfer knowledge immediately to extension workers to rectify
distortions and improve financing of capacity building of OPs. The FNDA / FIRCA will be available to
both ANADER and CNRA. Another advantage will be to have a real demand-driven system managed by
producers. It would allow the completion of the reform with a system privately managed and co-privately
financed (POs 60% and State 40%).


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A transitional period of 18 months at the end of 2003 is planned during which the National Capacity
Support Program (Programme National pour le Renforcement des Capacités ­ PARC) would support
some MINAGRA components from PNASA II, while some components from ANADER, CNRA and Rural
Radios would be supported at the end of 2003 by the PNGTER.

However, given the current political instability, transitional arrangements are uncertain.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance at Lending is rated "Satisfactory." The Program was well identified, and
accurately reflected the development and poverty reduction needs of the country. The institutional reform
allowed for great liberalization, and improvement of, the agricultural sector, which is of highest importance
in Côte d'Ivoire, a country largely dependent on agriculture for its own production and its foreign exchange
earning capacity. The experience gained in this Program was further utilized in other Bank projects e.g.,
agricultural services project in Togo, Senegal, Mali and Guinea. Lastly, in response to the Program's
anticipated increase in the use agricultural inputs (fertilizer and pesticides), the Bank implemented an
Integrated Pest Management Plan (IPMP).


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated "Satisfactory." The Bank held supervision missions regularly,
backed by support missions when required, to the extent that the political situation in the country permitted
it, by experts in a variety of fields, starting in December 1999. The mid-term review held in March 2001
allowed the Bank to re-assess the situation in the country and re-orient the Program. It recommended
postponing the closing date, reallocating funds from the contingency line items to the components,
reallocating funds from Works and Consulting/Training to Operational costs and augmenting two of the
components. Further supervision, with the creation of an action plan and targets to be met by the next
mission, and the close monitoring and evaluation of these, were held in November 2001 (supervision
mission) and December 2001 (support mission to REI), June 2002 (supervision leading to interim program
including financial management), and August 2002 (credit amendment and reallocation of funds). The
political trouble that occurred at the end of 2002, and separated the north of the country from the south,
happened close to project closing, and does not reflect a failure of the Bank to respond to conditions on the
ground.

The Bank also recommended that the implementing agencies improve the responsiveness of ANADER,



                                                     - 17 -

accelerate the decentralization and responsiveness of CNRA and MINAGRA, and set up a specific
management unit in MININFO to implement the rural radio component.

Continual updating of Project Status Reports and realignment of Program objectives with achievements
allowed Program management to closely monitor Program realizations.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated "Satisfactory." The Bank fielded strong multidisciplinary preparation
and supervision teams, took into consideration concerns of the Borrower and stakeholders, and adapted
Program design to local conditions. The Bank was proven right in supporting a project that pioneered the
reform of the agricultural sector in a developing country that depends on agricultural production as one of
the main pillars of its economy.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Program preparation is rated "Satisfactory", as this Program, which is complex, and included
numerous donors and government department and ministries, started successfully and yielded results
immediately. The Program combined restructuring government institutions, expanding agricultural
productivity through increased private and public sector interaction, and improving communication and
dissemination of information through rural radios, under the Ministry of Information. The Program was
based on an earlier agricultural project, which was executed boldly and was fully backed by the
government.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance is rated "Unsatisfactory" because after an initial hopeful period, the Government
entered grave political turmoil, then failed for a prolonged period to support the project, suspended funding,
and failed to honor foreign debt, causing suspension in disbursement and great delay to the project. During
these two-and-a-half years, implementation was very slow. However, the Government took courageous
steps in reforming its agricultural ministry, and moved ahead with the Program in spite of the need to lay
off numerous staff. This Program (PNASA II) builds on a first project (PNASA I), which had similar aims
and objectives. Hence the.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated "Satisfactory" overall, as the new institutions that
were created operated adequately. Staff was trained and the Program was modified in response to changes
in the economic and political environment. ANADER and CNRA performed better overall than
MINAGRA and MININFO, and, as they carry more weight (a combined 88% of project financing), the
performance of the Implementing agency overall is "Satisfactory".

On the negative side, however, MINAGRA failed to mobilize counterpart funding, frequently changed
personnel owing to political events, and consistently took operational decisions with delay. MININFO also
failed to mobilize counterpart funds, allowed politics to influence decision-making over development and
poverty-reduction needs, and failed to take operational decision in a timely manner.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated "Unsatisfactory," primarily as a result of the prevailing condition in
the country. A distinction has to be drawn between the original Borrower and the Borrower at the end of the
Program, which was a different Government; the initial Borrower, and initiator of the Program, readily


                                                     - 18 -

supported the Program, both financially and technically, whereas the Government for the second part of the
Program did not release counterpart funding to the extent necessary, especially at the beginning of its
mandate. However, towards the end of its mandate, it supported the Program more fully and went to great
lengths to ensure that salaries were paid.

8. Lessons Learned

Publicly financed / publicly managed agricultural services do not work
The traditional agricultural extension and research services that were found in Côte d'Ivoire before
PNASA, and are still found in many other countries, are under-performing, and lead to very weak results.
They are generally inefficient, expensive and operate in a "top-down" manner. In these systems, generally
administered by a Ministry of Agriculture, agricultural reform is both acutely needed and well received in
countries with an agriculture-based economy like Côte d'Ivoire.

Publicly financed / privately managed agricultural services are highly successful
The alternative to government-managed and -financed research and extension services is a privately
managed system. This is demonstrated by the success story of ANADER and CNRA. The main reform that
the Program implemented was the introduction of private management into the agricultural services sector
(through a change of ownership), as well as a percentage of private financing. The new structures are more
responsive to farmer demands, and promote agricultural innovations.

Publicly- and privately financed / privately managed agricultural services are best option
A mixed publicly- and privately financed agricultural research and extension system seems to be the best
option for the future, and the project in Côte d'Ivoire demonstrates that it is possible to implement it.
Organizations where farmers themselves, and producer organizations, own a majority of the company, and
control key decisions, leads to highly successful results. The fact that the Program kept its momentum, even
during times of extreme duress, is a demonstration that the aims and objectives of the Program were true to
local needs. The partially self-financing mechanism built into the ANADER is a valuable tool that ensures
sustainability in that the agricultural industry supports the organization, and demands strategic services in
return. Management is private, the employees are private, and continued funding from the government, as a
supplement to private-sector funding, as set up in the PNASA II, ensures support from, as well as a
minimum of government control in, a strategic industry. This is important in an industry where the aims of
the private sector need to be supported, and not burdened by, the public sector. The institutional setup that
was shown to be successful, therefore, is a system of agricultural research that is privately managed, using
mixed public/private finance.

Setting up mixed financing mechanisms for agricultural research and services ensures sustainability
The aims of the Program remain current beyond the life of the Program, and the activities of the Program
will be taken up by two other projects: the rural land and infrastructure development project (PNGTER)
and the PARC. The organizations set up by the Program (ANADER and CNRA) will continue to work
with these two projects. The PNGTER, transformed into an APL/CAP, will be the main tool to assist
communities in identifying, organizing and financing their needs. The PARC program under preparation
will be the main vehicle to support the institutional and technical strengthening of the service delivery
system including public service and private sector, and will strengthen decentralized participatory
agricultural policy making and monitoring.

Strategy supporting "basket" of crops is successful
The Program's strategy of diversifying agriculture through diverse services ensures stability. The great
price variability that agricultural producers saw during the life of the Program has important implications



                                                     - 19 -

for future agricultural service support projects: ANADER's and CNRA's strategy of aiming and
supporting a diversification of agriculture via polyvalent services proved correct. It is the only approach
that permits producers to even out the unforeseeable variations in prices of one of their major crops. This
does not exclude, however, strong support to specific export crops (cotton, cocoa, etc.) that needs to be
implemented into the development of the comprehensive farming system.

Innovative technologies are successfully introduced
The use of innovative technologies such as bio-pesticides from tobacco and peppers, oil presses, solar
dryers, pedal pumps and green manure are readily accepted and successfully implemented, and yield high
returns (up to 30% increase in cropping). The use of SARS, which are participatory, on-farm research
facilities, also proved successful.

Government control slows implementation
The two components that were under government or ministerial control failed to meet their objectives:
MINAGRA and Rural radio stations, as opposed to the two components that enjoyed independent
management.

Regular monitoring and supervision ensures project momentum
Regular monitoring and supervision permits implementing agencies to continually evolve and update their
technical competence and outreach, and ensures that projects maintain their momentum.

Reform takes time and requires the appropriate skills mix
Large agricultural sector institutional reform is possible, however, it takes time as demonstrated by
PNASA I and PNASA II, whose agenda is not fully completed 5 years after inception. Reform also
requires high-level staff input with an efficient skills mix, including institutional specialists (as in the case
of the TTL) to support the reform process without forcing it.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower supplied a separate completion report for three of the four components, which are attached
as Annex 8 of this report. The reports, which are concise, list the achievements of each Component, and
state, in brief:

Component A ­ ANADER
Numerous achievements were realized under this component and many targets were met or exceeded e.g.
increase in coffee yield from 550 to 560 kg per hectare, increase in cocoa yield from 400 to 550 kg per
hectare, 575,000 agriculturists involved in Program, and expansion of new coffee and cocoa plantations by
up to 10,000 ha per year. The Program analyzed average income level (distributed by gender and age), the
development of OPs and cooperatives and standard of living. On the negative side, the ANADER
component (which represented 58% of financing) failed to establish all cooperatives as legal entities (some
operated beyond their remit), delayed setting up the PNGTER, and financial suspensions caused great
upset. The Program could have better adapted its training plan to the Ivorian setting, could have taken
non-agricultural constraints into consideration, could have further developed certain experimental activities
(e.g., leguminous shrubs) and could have gone farther with decentralization.

Component B ­ CNRA
CNRA was created in 1998 by amalgamating three research organizations, which were concerned with



                                                     - 20 -

forestry, savannas and technology. It is 40% owned by the government and 60% by professional
organizations. The CNRA has carried out, between 1998 and 2002, a set of 23 research programs
organized into five general axes (broadly known as first-generation research):
·        Perennial crops (oil palm, coconut, coffee, cocoa, cola, rubber, various fruits, pineapple, bananas
and ornamental plants);
·        Annual crops (rice, maize, millet, sorghum, tuber plants, cotton, sugar cane and market gardening
and protein-bearing plants);
·        Animal production (domestic ruminants, fodder plants, aquaculture and continental fisheries);
·        Production systems (in forests, savannas, lowlands and mountains); and
·        Technological research (conservation and processing of agricultural produce).
The CNRA is in the process of compiling the achievements of these four years of research, and the second
generation of programs has recently been started.

A full completion report was not produced most likely due to the complexity of the situation on the ground
and the temporary absence of personnel at the time this report was being finalized.

Component C ­ MINAGRA
Support to MINAGRA represents 10% of Program costs, and was concerned mainly with enhancing
management and operation of the ministry. The component was expanded to nine sub-components (up from
five at Inception) and carried out a large amount of training, in addition to other activities. On the negative
side, the Program still owes a considerable amount of unpaid fees (FCFA 128 million or US$183,000) to
contractors and suppliers. The report states that, apart from delays and cutbacks in funds, the Bank called
for a single administrator for this component, which did not optimize disbursement and the participation of
all sub-components. Having separate administrators for each sub-component would have improved this,
and would have exposed more local staff to World Bank procedures.

Component D ­ Rural Radios
The rural radio component (representing 2%) achieved much preparatory work (e.g., procurement and bid
documents) but also mentions that many of its objectives could not be achieved owing to the slowness of
the World Bank disbursement procedures, and the socio-political troubles in the country.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Cofinancers actively participated in project monitoring, particularly in the different supervisions. However,
with the political events, the staff in charge has left the country. Cofinancers did not issue a completion
report for the PNASA II.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments are expected.

10. Additional Information

The political background to the situation is that traditionally Côte d'Ivoire drew its relative prosperity from
close ties to France, the development of cocoa production for export, and foreign investment. Côte d'Ivoire
further benefited greatly from exceptional natural conditions and the proximity to low-cost immigrant
labor. However Côte d'Ivoire saw these natural advantages turn against her by practicing a policy that was
essentially "extractive": mining her natural resources, and destroying her forests, without being able to give
a clear status to the immigrants that she had attracted.




                                                     - 21 -

Political turmoil disturbed economic and social stability when on 25 December 1999, a military coup ­ the
first ever in Côte d'Ivoire's history ­ overthrew the government led by President Henri Konan BEDIE. The
coup leader Robert GUEI held elections in late 2000, but excluded prominent opposition leader Alassane
OUATTARA, and declared himself winner, under accusations of falsifying the polling results. Popular
protest forced GUEI to step aside and brought runner-up Laurent GBAGBO into power. GBAGBO spent
his first two years in office trying to consolidate power to strengthen his weak mandate, but he was unable
to appease his opponents, who launched a failed coup attempt in September 2002. Rebel forces claimed the
northern half of the country and in January 2003 were granted ministerial positions in a unity government,
although the country is still divided in two. French and West African troops remain in Côte d'Ivoire to
maintain peace and help implement the peace accords under the UN mandate.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate


- Reduce number of rural poor from 36% in     A comprehensive impact monitoring system        N/A
1995 to 30% by year 2001                      is being designed under the PRSP
                                              implementation and was to be operational for
                                              the end of 2002. The political events delayed
                                              the implementation.



- Annual growth of agricultural. production   The civil war hampered the growth increase      Coffee: 550 - 560 kg/ha (1.8%)
increases to 4.5% and of productivity to 2.5% trend and the impact monitoring system is not Cocoa: 400 to 550 kg/ha (38%)
by 2001                                       yet implemented. It is difficult today to know  Irrigated rice: 3 to 4 t/ha (33%)
                                              the real situation. The results are unequal,    Rainfed rice: 1.5 to 2 t/ha (33%)
                                              difficult to evaluate overall, and sensitive to Plantain: 7 to 13 t/ha (86%)
                                              market forces.                                  Cassava: 8 to 11 t/ha (38%)

                                                                                              Average: 38%



- Government's contribution to agricultural   The objective has not been achieved for         61.5%
services no more than 40% of total cost by    2001. It depends on implementation and
2001.                                         effectiveness of the FIRCA. It could be done
                                              during the next six months (May ­ Nov 2003)



- 30% of technical packages are fully         Achieved at the end of 2001. However, it        Well above 30%
protective of resources.                      needs a new evaluation after the civil war.



- Technical answers provided to farmers for   Achieved at the end of 2001. However, it        Over 30% as regards agriculture but
30% of their identified constraints.          needs a new evaluation after the civil war.     population often request equipment, which is
                                                                                              rarely satisfied



- 60% of research results are adapted for use Achieved at the end of 2001. However, it        100%
by extension services.                        needs a new evaluation after the civil war.



- 25% of packages respond to women's          23% in 2001. A new survey is needed.            100%
needs.

- 50% of ANADER's technical advice is         Achieved at the end of 2001. However, it        25%. This is variable between themes;
adopted by farmers.                           needs a new evaluation after the civil war.     generally, technology is quickly assimilated
                                                                                              when the results are immediately visible.



- 7 rural radios are established and managed Not achieved. However, a lot of preparation      Not achieved.
by users.                                     has been done to finalize the implementation.
                                              At least six months are needed (May / Nov
                                              2003)




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate


ANADER is fully autonomous and privately      Completed                                       Achieved in 1998.
managed agency with financial and human
resources management decentralized.


ANADER: The Extension programs are            Before the conflict the ANADER Program          (i) The percentage of women supported by




                                                                  - 23 -

focus on i) women farmers' needs, ii)        was on track for all four items.              the Program went from 8% to over 30%;
integrated pest management, iii) sustainable                                               promoted 720 groups, in which women
soils management, iv) with a participatory                                                 represented 26% of members; supported 100
approach strategy.                                                                         women leaders; introduced technology to
                                                                                           relieve duress to women (pedal pumps etc).
                                                                                           (ii) 55 rice growers trained; 10 agricultural
                                                                                           centers created and 375 farmers trained; 415
                                                                                           producers trained in green manure
                                                                                           production and biological weed control; 7472
                                                                                           peasants trained in bio-pesticide use
                                                                                           (tobacco, neem, chilies). (iii) Disseminated
                                                                                           new technologies; 10 ha Gliricidia, 3
                                                                                           committees formed, new yam variety
                                                                                           introduced, 3km of live hedge. (iv) ANADER
                                                                                           uses the participatory method as its overall
                                                                                           approach.



ANADER: the adaptive research disposal is    Completed before the civil war.               Using the participatory approach, ANADER
efficient and it is integrating producers                                                  successfully managed to:
organizations, producers, extensionists and                                                - Disseminate information through contact
researchers. It is formalized by annual                                                    groups and economic interest groups;
Regional Technical Review including all                                                    - Facilitated rural activities via rural
partners with a majority of beneficiaries.                                                 development specialists
                                                                                           - Offered technical advice through technical
                                                                                           specialists
                                                                                           - Offered planning advice through local
                                                                                           planning teams and the study and
                                                                                           consultancy service.
                                                                                           - Gender and development approach through
                                                                                           61 focal points.
                                                                                           - Technological "packages" prepared for sale
                                                                                           to clients.



ANADER/POs: PO are more efficient in         Only partially achieved. ANOPACI (the         - Coffee and cocoa sectors particularly
access to liberalized market at national and national coordination of POs) has been        successful in consolidating producers and
international level.                         significantly empowered. However, the         marketers.
                                             situation is different for each crop producer - 612 OPs formed.
                                             organization concerning market access.        - 13 cocoa cooperatives export produce on
                                                                                           the international market.



CNRA is a fully autonomous privately         The objective was met before the civil war.   CNRA is fully autonomous.
managed agency decentralized at regional
level.


CNRA's research programs have strong         Before the civil war the CNRA's programs      CNRA is highly participatory and aimed at
focus on women's and young's needs           were on track.                                responding to demand from users.



CNRA. Coordination has been increased        Before the civil war the Program was well     By March 2003:
between CNRA other national and              oriented. The CNRA was integrating new        - Numerous national conventions were
international research institutions.         national and international partners into the  signed between CNRA and ANADER,
                                             new research programs.                        numerous development projects and
                                                                                           agricultural "filières" especially cotton and
                                                                                           sugar. CNRA also signed a framework
                                                                                           agreement with the Universities and
                                                                                           Polytechnics (Universités et Grandes Ecoles)
                                                                                           of Côte d'Ivoire to complement its full-time
                                                                                           staff.
                                                                                           - At sub-regional level, CNRA entered into
                                                                                           cooperation with National Agricultural
                                                                                           Research Systems (Systèmes Nationaux de
                                                                                           Recherche Agricole) and with public and
                                                                                           private companies in agricultural research.




                                                                 - 24 -

                                                                                             - At international level, the CNRA signed
                                                                                             conventions with the Consultative Group for
                                                                                             International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
                                                                                             and other research centers.



CNRA/Ministry of Research (MESRIT). The The objective was not achieved before the            No recent information
capacity of MESRIT to assist CNRA in          war. The MESRIT capacity remains weak.
prioritizing research programs has increased.


MINAGRA. A pilot planning and monitoring      The MINAGRA was starting to implement the Supported the creation of the regional
decentralization process has been             process when war broke out. The objective      balance sheet and set up tools: outline to
experimented for three of 17 regions of the   has not been achieved.                         elaborate the balance sheet and an outline for
MINAGRA.                                                                                     the diagnosis. NB the test regions are in
                                                                                             rebel territory.



MINAGRA/Statistic. Production of reliable     Before the war the MINAGRA statistics          · By September 2003 the data collection and
and regular statistic documents.              department was well positioned to produce      processing for the National Agricultural
                                              the first document following the completion of Census was complete, and analysis was
                                              the national census.                           underway.
                                                                                             · The official presentation of data was
                                                                                             programmed for October 2003.
                                                                                             · Fundamental text for creation of SYSPER
                                                                                             complete
                                                                                             · Methodology and technical documents
                                                                                             completed for the annual agricultural survey,
                                                                                             and for the coffee, cocoa, and rice sectors,
                                                                                             and for agricultural prices in rural markets.
                                                                                             · Intranet connection from DSDI to DPP and
                                                                                             DPROPA established.



MINAGRA/Livestock. Genetic improvement        It was on track before the war. However, the By September 2003:
system including POs has been improved.       main location was in the Bouaké area, which · The study on genetic improvement systems
                                              is one of the main war areas. A new            was completed, and the workshop held.
                                              assessment is required.                        · Created forms and started census of
                                                                                             national cattle and sheep herd.
                                                                                             · Drew up ToRs for studies on epidemiology
                                                                                             of African swine fever, agriculture-animal
                                                                                             husbandry associations, and aquaculture
                                                                                             sector.
                                                                                             · Signed convention between PAGEC and
                                                                                             ANADER, CNRA and LANADA.



MINAGRA/POs. The capacity of the              In progress. However, far from completing its · National directory of cooperatives up to date
MINAGRA department for POs regulation         objectives when war broke out.                 (19 regional files held).
and control is efficient.                                                                    · Control and inspection of cooperatives and
                                                                                             evaluation of programs from other support
                                                                                             structures under way.



RURAL RADIOS. 7 new rural radios              The objective is not achieved. Preparation     Preparations well under way, but objective
implemented.                                  was almost completed at the beginning of the not achieved
                                              war.



RURAL RADIOS. A network to disseminate        The network is not implemented.                Preparations well under way, but objective
development broadcast is in place particularly                                               not achieved
concerning agriculture, environment and
market information.

1End of project




                                                                 - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    Appraisal         Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate            Estimate           Appraisal
                          Component                                US$ million         US$ million
 ANADER (1)                                                          109.55                 68.78                59
 CNRA (2)                                                              52.72                14.92              24.3
 MINAGRA (3)                                                           19.72                 1.99               9.5
 RURAL RADIOS (4)                                                       2.81                 0.04               1.4

Total Baseline Cost                                                  184.80                 85.73
 Physical Contingencies                                                10.61
 Price Contingencies                                                    6.57
                            Total Project Costs                      201.98                 85.73
                     Total Financing Required                        201.98                 85.73
(1) From Borrower Report. Actual / Latest based on total IDA disbursement of US$12.56 million, and on total
Government disbursement of US$56.22 million. NB Appraisal estimates shown do not include contingencies,
however, the percentage calculated is based on the Appraisal estimate including contingencies i.e., US$116.6
million.
(2) Based on June 2002 figures (World Bank Financial Supervision Mission). NB Appraisal estimates shown do
not include contingencies, however, the percentage calculated is based on the Appraisal estimate including
contingencies i.e., US$61.3 million.
(3) Based on Borrower Final Report. NB Appraisal estimates shown do not include contingencies, however, the
percentage calculated is based on the Appraisal estimate including contingencies i.e., US$20.9 million.
(4) Based on amount disbursed in 2001. From MININFO report "Etat d'Avancement du Projet, June 2002". By
June 2002, US$1.9 million was available, but no information on its disbursement available at closing. NB
Appraisal estimates shown do not include contingencies, however, the percentage calculated is based on the
Appraisal estimate including contingencies i.e., US$3.2 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               14.18             0.00              0.00           14.18
                                       (0.00)            (11.24)           (0.00)            (0.00)         (11.24)
2. Goods                               17.22              9.62              8.33             10.80           45.97
                                      (10.77)             (5.96)           (5.16)            (0.00)         (21.89)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              15.87            18.89           34.76
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (9.53)            (0.00)          (9.53)
4. Operating costs                     0.00               0.00              66.67            52.70           119.37
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (3.55)            (0.00)          (3.55)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
    Total                              17.22              23.80             90.87            82.39           214.28
                                      (10.77)            (17.20)           (18.24)           (0.00)         (46.21)
N.B.F. = Not-Bank Financed. Figures in brackets are amount to be financed by the IDA credit.


                                                      - 26 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 12.10              0.96              0.00             0.00             13.06
                                          (10.23)            (0.47)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (10.70)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              3.86             0.00              3.86
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.24)            (0.00)           (1.24)
  4. Operating costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                12.10              0.96              3.86             0.00             16.92
                                          (10.23)            (0.47)            (1.24)            (0.00)           (11.94)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
ANADER (1)                    23.70        91.05                    12.57         56.22                 53.0      61.7
CNRA (2)                      17.80        19.37                     1.80         13.11                 10.1      67.7
MINAGRA (3)                    6.45         1.46                     1.80         0.19                  27.9      13.0
Rural Radio (4)                2.81                                  0.04                                1.4

  NB amounts shown for known figures only.
  (1) From PAD and Borrower Final Report.
  (2) Actual / Latest figures from Financial Supervision Mission June 2002.
  (3) Actual / Latest figures based on Borrower Final Report.
  (4) Actual / Latest figures from MININFO report "Etat d'Avancement du Projet, June 2002".
  Percentages worked out automatically.




                                                          - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Economic Rate of Return (from increased productivity and production) was not calculated at the
closing of Phase I of PNASA II.

Economic costs to this Program are investment in capacity building and technology, exchange of
information, access, communication and finance, works, vehicles, equipment and materials, consultant
services/training, auditing costs, maintenance, salaries, travel allowances and operation costs, ongoing for
the duration of the Program (11 years).

Direct economic benefits from this Program derive from increased productivity and production of a wide
range of crops and livestock products, which were expected to increase as a result of PNASA's activities
through higher price to the producer, improved quality of product and increased quantity of agricultural
produce. Quantity was estimated to increase by 30%, and prices were to follow world market prices, which
were projected to increase overall. At inception, the estimated Economic Rate of Return was calculated to
be 20%, with an 85% probability of a positive NPV.

The total IDA credit is SDR37.1 million (US$50 million equivalent), although overall this was disbursed
only to SDR22.0 million (US$29.67 million), or 59.34%.

It can be seen from the achievements listed in Annex 1 that certain results were widely exceeded, for
example plantain production went from 7 to 13 t/ha (86% increase) following Program input, 100% of
research results are used in extension instead of 60%, 100% of packages respond to women's needs instead
of 25%, etc. Owing to prevailing conditions in the country, however, a full economic cost and benefit
analysis was not carried out.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/1997                 12     TTL / Rural Development (1),           S               S
                                             Res. Dev. / Ext. (1), Ag.
                                             Research (1), Ag. & Rural Com
                                             (1) , Institutional Development
                                             Specialist (1), Communication
                                             Specialist (1), Financial Analyst
                                             (1), Financial Adviser (1),
                                             Disbursement (1), Procurement
                                             (2), Team Assistant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/1998                   9    TTL / Institutions (1) , Res.          S               S
                                             Dev. / Ext. (1), Ag. Research
                                             (1), Ag. & Rural Com (1) ,
                                             Communication Specialist
                                             (1), Financial Analyst (1),
                                             Disbursement (1),
                                             Procurement (1), Team
                                             Assistant (1)

 Supervision
              12/1999                   6    Institutional Development              S               S
                                             Specialist (1),
                                             Communication Specialist
                                             (1), Disbursement Assistant
                                             (1), Procurement Specialist
                                             (1), Financial Analyst (1),
                                             Team Asst (1)
              12/2000                   1    Ag. Services Specialist                U               U
              04/2001                   7    TTL / Rural Development (1),           U               U
                                             FO/Institutional (1), Research
                                             (1), Financial Mgmt (1),
                                             Procurement (1), Land
                                             Mgmt/IPM (1), Disbursement (1)
              12/2001                   8    Institutional (1), Extension (1),      U               U
                                             Agricultural Research (1),
                                             Financial Mgmt (1),
                                             Disbursement (1), Procurement
                                             (2), Team Assistant (1)
              04/2002                   9    TTL / Institutions (1)                 U               U
                                             Res. Dev. / Ext. (1), Ag.
                                             Research (1), Ag. & Rural Com
                                             (1) , Financial Adviser (1),
                                             Disbursement (1), Procurement
                                             (2), Team Assistant (1)
              10/2002                   8    TTL/Institution (1),                   S               S




                                              - 29 -

                                           Extension/IPM (1), Ag. Research
                                           (1), Financial Adviser (1),
                                           Disbursement (1), Procurement
                                           (2), Team Assistant (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                      389,339.83
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                               165,600
  Supervision                                                     807,890.93
  ICR                                                                  8,500
  Total                                                         1,371,330.76




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

ANADER Completion Report; October 2003

CNRA Mission de Supervision du PNASA II, 10 au 21 juin 2002

MINAGRA Completion Report; September 2003

Rural Radios Completion Report; not dated.

World Bank Project Status Report (PSR) 1 ­ 10

Actes de l'Atelier. Atelier sur le conseil de gestion aux exploitants agricoles. Yamoussoukro, 8 ­ 10
décembre 1998.

Rapport Annuel de la DOPAC. De janvier 2000 à décembre 2000. MINAGRA. 12 janvier 2001.

Programme de valorization des ressources humaines du secteur agricole. Composite IV. Encadrement et
formation professionnelle agricole.
Draft 01. Comité de Rédaction. Avril 2000.

Mission de supervision du PNASA II. Composante ANADER. 10 au 21 juin 2002.




                                                      - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report


MINISTERE D'ETAT                                      REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE                                 Union ­ Discipline ­Travail
             --------------------                                ----------------


PROGRAMME NATIONAL D'APPUI
AUX SERVICES AGRICOLES PHASE II (PNASA II)
-------------
RESUME RAPPORT FINAL




INTRODUCTION - GÉNÉRALITÉS


La phase II du Programme National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (PNASA II) a démarré en 1998 avec
la signature de l'accord de prêt le 18 septembre 1998.

Le PNASA comprend quatre (4) composantes :

-         Composante A : ANADER

-         Composante B : CNRA

-         Composante C : MINAGRI

-         Composante D : RADIOS RURALES

Le PNASA devrait s'exécuter sur 11 ans à partir de 1998 suivant un Plan Programme Ajustable (APL) par
tranches de 3 ans, 4 ans et 4 ans. La phase II a pris fin, conformément à l'Accord de Prêt IDA, le 30 Juin
2003.

Chaque composante est autonome. Cependant, en vue d'harmoniser les interventions, la plupart des
réunions de concertation sont convoquées par le MINAGRI.

Le Programme est financé par un prêt IDA de la Banque Mondiale (accord de prêt IDA n° 3117 IVC, signé
le 18 septembre 1998) pour un montant total de 26, 480 milliards de FCFA hors montant non affecté qui se
chiffre à 2,88 milliards de CFA.

L'exécution du programme s'est trouvée freinée par des problèmes d'ordre institutionnel, financier et
environnemental (coup d'Etat de décembre 1999 qui a entraîné la suspension des décaissements par la
Banque Mondiale.

Dans le cadre de la reprise des décaissements par la Banque Mondiale, un programme intérimaire dont le
principe a été convenu lors de la revue à mi-parcours de mars 2001, a démarré le 1er janvier 2002 et



                                                    - 34 -

prendra fin le 30 juin 2003 (soit 18 mois ) en même temps que le prêt IDA.

Ce programme intérimaire devait permettre à la Côte d'Ivoire de remplir certaines conditionnalités clé, à
savoir : la rationalisation des effectifs de l'ANADER, la mise en place d'un Fonds National pour le
Développement Agricole (FNDA) qui a évolué par la suite en Fonds Interprofessionnel pour la Recherche et
le Conseil Agricole (FIRCA).

La phase II du PNASA ou PNASA II, vise essentiellement à :

(i)      préserver les acquis enregistrés lors de la phase I du Projet,

(ii)     accelérer le niveau d'exécution du projet au triple plan institutionnel, financier et technique.

(iii)    consolider les actions en matière de lutte contre la pauvreté, en particulier des groupes vulnérables,

(iv)     poursuivre le test de déconcentration des services du MINADER.

Les principaux résultats obtenus et les difficultés rencontrées sont les suivants par composantes

COMPOSANTE A (ANADER)

1 ­ Résultats

Les résultats de la composante ANADER sont présentés suivant les quatre (4) Objectifs contenus dans le
PNASA II comme ci-dessous.

I.1- Objectif 1 :

« Renforcer l'ANADER dans le but d'en faire un organisme à gestion privée pleinement autonome et
faisant l'objet, sur le plan financier et en matière de ressources humaines, d'une gestion décentralisée à
l'échelon régional, grâce à la réhabilitation des infrastructures, l'acquisition de matériel, la réalisation d'un
programme de formation et de fourniture de services consultatifs techniques ».



Commentaires

A la fin du PNASA II, tous les atouts sont réunis pour faire de l'ANADER une structure avec un
management de type privé, décentralisé et efficace, pouvant être contractualisé par les bénéficiaires, les
Privés et l'Etat. Le seul point noir est la non exécution des marchés de réhabilitation et reconstruction des
bureaux du fait de la guerre dans le pays et de l'arrêt du PNASA. Cependant, l'espoir est permis quand on
s'aperçoit des efforts en cours en matière de contractualisation pour acquérir l'autonomie financière.

I.2 - Objectif 2 :

« Renforcer les services de vulgarisation agricole en mettant particulièrement l'accent sur les besoins des
femmes agricultrices, la lutte intégrée contre les ennemis des cultures et la gestion durable des sols, grâce à
une approche participative, une formation continue du personnel aux niveaux administratifs et techniques,
la fourniture de services consultatifs techniques et l'acquisition de matériel ».




                                                     - 35 -

Commentaires

L'ANADER a su adapter son dispositif de vulgarisation en tenant compte de l'évolution de son milieu et de
la demande de ses partenaires, grâce à un personnel régulièrement évalué et formé aux différents outils,
approches et stratégies d'intervention. Elle est pionnière en matière de Genre et développement, position qui
lui permet de prendre en compte les préoccupations des            groupes vulnérables que sont les femmes
agricultrices et les Jeunes, et d'envisager la contractualisation de son expertise en la matière. La fonction «
conseil de gestion » des Techniciens Spécialisés s'est renforcée par l'acquisition des Kits surtout pour les
TS Elevage. C'est un complément indispensable pour faire des démonstrations aux champs et dans les
fermes écoles en place pour la formation des exploitants.

I.3 - Objectif 3 :

« Renforcer le programme de recherche adaptative de l'ANADER pour accroître l'interaction entre
agriculteurs, chercheurs et vulgarisateurs, en mettant particulièrement l'accent sur les besoins des femmes
agricultrices, la lutte intégrée contre les ennemis des cultures et la gestion durable des sols, par
l'amélioration de la performance des CTR et l'appui à la recherche système en milieu paysan, ainsi que
grâce à la fourniture de services consultatifs techniques et l'acquisition de matériel ».

Commentaire :

Le dispositif R/D de l'ANADER bénéficie d'une collaboration très étroite avec les Instituts de recherche.
Cette collaboration s'est affirmée dans les Diagnostics SARS, les CTR et la formation du personnel
ANADER. Aujourd'hui, un paquet d'innovations technologiques est disponible pour accompagner les
Exploitants dans leur quête de professionnalisme. Cette collaboration va s'intensifier dans le cadre des
conventions avec les Conseils généraux et autres communautés locales.

I.4 - Objectif 4 :

« Rendre l'ANADER mieux à même d'aider les OPA à devenir plus efficaces et améliorer leur accès au
marché, en mettant l'accent sur les coopératives de producteurs opérant dans un contexte de plus en plus
libéralisé, grâce à la fourniture de services consultatifs techniques, l'organisation de voyages d'études,
l'acquisition de matériel et la réalisation d'un programme de formation ».

Commentaire :

Le rôle de l'ANADER dans la promotion des coopératives a été déterminant. Par ailleurs le dialogue
qu'elle entretient en permanence avec les OPA a permis une avancée significative dans la mise en place du
Fonds Interprofessionnel pour la Recherche et le Conseil Agricole (FIRCA) dont le fonctionnement sera un
atout pour la politique de contractualisation développée par l'ANADER. Toutefois, il est impératif
d'élaborer et mettre en oeuvre des stratégies d'appui plus efficaces à la base afin que les coopératives soient
de véritables entreprises économiquement viables au profit de leurs membres.

I.5 ­ Déclencheurs de passage à la deuxième tranche de l'APL/PNASA II

La plupart des conditionnalités ou actions à mener par l'ANADER ont connu un niveau de réalisation
satisfaisant.

2 ­ Difficultés rencontrées Au plan institutionnel


                                                      - 36 -

La Loi n'a pas responsabilisé une seule structure dans la réalisation des études de faisabilité.

Au plan réglementaire

Les procédures de création de coopérative agricole ne sont pas toujours respectées si bien qu'il y a des
coopératives qui n'existent que de noms ou qui ne maîtrisent pas leurs membres, travaillant donc comme
des acheteurs en utilisant des pisteurs ; ou encore, ne respectant pas leur ressort territorial. Les sanctions
prévues dans les textes ne sont pas appliquées.

Au plan du financement des activités

-        Plusieurs ruptures des financements (Banque Mondiale) ont perturbé le bon fonctionnement du
PNASA II :
-        Arrêt des décaissements de 1999 à 2002 pour cause de coup d'Etat ayant perturbé les activités de
L'ANADER.
-        Le retard pris pour la signature de l'amendement à l'accord de crédit a ralenti les activités de
L'ANADER (Mars 2002 à Février 2003) parce que l'Etat n'avait pas les ressources suffisantes pour
financer une part importante du Budget de fonctionnement de l'ANADER.
-        Fermeture du PNASA II au 30 Juin 2003 alors que les Autorités ivoiriennes étaient entrain de
négocier le report de sa date de clôture au 31/12/2004.

Conséquences : 15 à 25 % des activités du PNASA II sont gelées et ne peuvent être finalisées qu'en cas de
prolongation d'une année supplémentaire.

Au plan technique

Les difficultés au plan technique se résument comme suit :

-        Inadaptation du système formation/visites au contexte ivoirien caractérisé par l'individualisme des
agriculteurs et leur méfiance qui n'a pas favorisé le travail en GC.

-        La non prise en compte par le passé des contraintes non agricoles des communautés rurales lors
des DPG et des PDL.

-        Le retard très important pris pour mettre en place le volet AIMR du PNGTER ; ce qui n'a permis
de démarrer le financement des micro- projets contenus dans les 150 premiers PDL, décourageant ainsi les
communautés rurales qui étaient très enthousiastes à l'origine du PNGTER.

-        L'impact très limité des actions du projet qui sont restées embryonnaires, expérimentales (GID,
GDS, légumineuses arbustives etc...) et qui n'ont pas touché un nombre important d'exploitants malgré
leur pertinence avérée, pour les questions de trésorerie, mais aussi de stratégie.

-        L'objectif de la décentralisation n'est pas totalement atteint parce que les DR et CZ, n'ont pas pu
jouer pleinement leur rôle de Managers comme cela était prévu dans le PNASA.



COMPOSANTE B (CNRA)




                                                      - 37 -

           Rapport non parvenu à la DPP à la date du 23/12/03



COMPOSANTE C (MINAGRI)

1.1      - RÉALISATION DU PROGRAMME INTÉRIMAIRE

1.1       - Difficultés rencontrées

L'essentiel des activités du programme intérimaire qui a pris fin le 30 juin 2003, devait se réaliser dans les
trois régions tests. D'une façon générale au niveau de toutes les sous-composantes, les résultats sont
mitigés. Ces résultats ont été largement influencés par les éléments suivants :

·        Les difficultés de mobilisation des ressources du PNASA II.
·        L'insuffisance de la contrepartie annuelle.
·        La crise socio-politique débuté le 19 Septembre 2002 a aggravé les difficultés ci-dessus . Les 2 /3
des régions tests où devaient se dérouler les activités se trouvent en zone de guerre (Korhogo, Bouaké).
·        La signature tardive de l'amendement de l'accord de crédit.

En effet, annoncé pour Décembre 2001 ou Janvier 2002, l'amendement à l'accord de crédit n'a été signé
que le 12 Août 2002. Malheureusement, deux mois plus tard, le budget national de l'exercice 2002 était
clos, rendant ainsi les décaissements impossibles. En 2003, les financements nationaux ont été mis en place
en Juillet 2003.

- A cet état de fait, il faut ajouter le refus de la prorogation demandée par la Côte d'Ivoire. En définitive, il
     n'a jamais été possible d'opérer des décaissements important sur le financement IDA.

-        La Banque Mondiale a exigé un seul administrateur de crédit pour la composante C. Cela n'a pas
favorisé l'efficacité dans les décaissements et la participation des différentes sous composantes. Or
l'exécution des financements de la Banque donne l'opportunité aux cadres nationaux de se former. La
pluralité des administrateurs de crédit à l'échelle de chaque sous composante aurait favorisé cette
formation.

-        De façon générale, certains bailleurs de fonds bilatéraux et multilatéraux conditionnent leur
financement à celui de la Banque Mondiale. ; c'est le cas de la mise en place du Sysper de la DSDI. L'arrêt
brutal du financement du PNASA II a handicapé la bonne exécution du programme.



COMPOSANTE D (RADIO RURALES LOCALES)

Les observations suivantes ont été faites par rapport aux objectifs visés :

Observations
La cellule de coordination a été constituée en se basant sur les ressources humaines disponibles au niveau
du ministère de la communication à charge de la composante D du projet en vue de minimiser les dépenses.

La cellule de coordination a sensibilisé les autorités et les populations sur le projet avec la collaboration
efficace des autorités administratives, coutumières, municipales, législatives et des populations, dans les


                                                       - 38 -

délais.

La définition des spécifications techniques des équipements a été atteinte dans le délai, mais la composante
reste devoir au consultant par manque de numéro contribuable de ce dernier.

Le document de passation des marchés pour la construction des bâtiments et pour la fourniture des
équipements techniques et services annexes pour les radios a été élaboré dans le délai avec tous les
engagements lui afférant honorer.

Les marchés pour la construction des bâtiments pour 7 radios rurales locales ont été passés avec un retard
dans la mise en oeuvre de cet objectif pour nécessité d'enquête en vue de valider les différents appels d'offre
reçus.



OBJECTIFS NON REALISÉS

Les objectifs suivants n'ont pas été réalisés :
·       Passation des marchés pour la construction des bâtiments pour 7 radios rurales locales
·       Passation des marchés pour la fourniture des équipements techniques et services annexes
·       Mise en place des comités de gestion
·       Construction des bâtiments devant abriter les équipements et le personnel
·       Equipement des Radios Rurales Locales
·       Recrutement du personnel des Radios Rurales Locales (Chefs de station, responsables des
programmes, techniciens et leurs assistants, animateurs, responsables du service financier)
·       Formation du personnel recruté
·       Organisation des séminaires

Observations
Ces objectifs n'ont pu être atteints compte tenu en partie de la lenteur dans les procédures de décaissement
de l'Administration et de la Banque Mondiale et d'autre part, des troubles socio-politiques intervenus en
Côte d'Ivoire.




                                                    - 39 -

- 40 -

