Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3117 IVC
CNRA Project Agreement
(Second National Agricultural Services Support Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CENTRE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE
Dated September 18, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3117 IVC 
CNRA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and CENTRE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE (CNRA).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,100,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that CNRA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CNRA, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to CNRA on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
CNRA Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS CNRA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CNRA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering, environmental and 
scientific practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and CNRA shall otherwise agree, CNRA shall carry out 
Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CNRA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the CNRA Project 
Agreement and Part B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CNRA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
CNRA, a plan for the future 
operation of  Part B of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with CNRA on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. CNRA shall duly perform all its obligations under the CNRA 
Subsidiary Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CNRA shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CNRA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the CNRA Subsidiary 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
CNRA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CNRA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the CNRA Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of CNRA
Section 3.01. CNRA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, environmental and 
scientific practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
Page  3
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CNRA shall at all times operate and maintain its machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. CNRA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CNRA shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptaple to the Association, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connnection with the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project.
(b) CNRA 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the CNRA Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) above for such year as so 
audited and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and a report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
CNRA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify CNRA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CNRA:
Km 17 Route de Dabou Adiopodoume
01 B.P. 1740 Abidjan 01
Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CNRA may be 
taken or executed by CNRA's Director General or such other person or persons as CNRA 
shall designate in writing, and CNRA shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By: /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
CENTRE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE
By: /s/ Moïse Koumoué Koffi
Authorized Representative
Page  5
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
In paragraph 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works related to Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,630,000 
equivalent, and (b) goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,750,000 equivalent for Part B of 
the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods related to Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,310,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles, computers and office equipment related to Part B of the Project may be 
procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United Nations 
(IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines and as 
specified in the Manual of Procedures.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Page  6
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part B of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods related to Part B of the 
Projet estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first three 
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 3.
Post 
Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for specialized studies and training under Part B of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for consulting firms and 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract for individual consultants, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services under Part B of the Project for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Part B of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  7
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and each contract 
procured through single source selection in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 
of this Section, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, CNRA shall apply the 
policies, procedures and arrangements specified in the Manual of Procedures and, 
except as otherwise agreed with the Association, shall not amend or waive, or permit 
to be amended or waived, the Manual of Procedures in a manner which, in the opinion of 
the Association, would materially affect the implementation of Part B of the Project. 
2.
Not later than November 30 of each year, CNRA shall furnish to the Association, 
for its review and approval, draft detailed work programs and budgets in respect of 
Part B of the Project for the forthcoming calendar year.
3.
CNRA shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than March 31 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review jointly with the Borrower, the Association and ANADER, by May 31 
of each year, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
4.
CNRA shall maintain separate records and accounts for its research activities 
and production/marketing activities. 
Page  8
5.
CNRA shall participate in the joint comprehensive review referred to in Section 
8 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and prepare the part of the report 
concerning Part B of the Project as provided in said Section 8.
