CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1381-GH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTRICITY CORPORATION OF GHANA
Dated March 24, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and ELECTRICITY CORPORATION OF GHANA (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment;
(B) the Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
has requested the Association to provide additional assistance
towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Association (herein-
after called the Development Credit Agreement) the Association is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) (hereinafter called
the Credit);
(C) the Project will be partly carried out by the Borrower
with the Guarantor's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Guarantor will make available to the Borrower part of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit
Agreement;
(D) the Bank and the Borrower intend, to the extent practic-
able, that the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement
be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project after dis-
bursement of the proceeds of the Credit, other than the proceeds


﻿-2-
allocated for Part A.5 and Part D of the Project, provided for
in the Development Credit Agreement is completed; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "VRA" means the Volta River Authority, a corporation
established under the Volta River Development Act, 1961, of the
Guarantor;
(b) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Association for
the purposes of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agree-
ments supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement and all
schedules to the Development Credit Agreement;


﻿-4-
(c) "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year; and
(d) "Cedis" and the sign "V" mean Cedis in currency of the
Guarantor.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine mil-
lion dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-6-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A to C of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and public utility
practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the procure-
ment of goods and services required for Parts A to C of the
Project and in the supervision of the carrying out of said Parts
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for Parts A to C of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,


﻿-8-
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Parts A to C of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Parts A to C of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in said Parts of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Parts A to C
of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and public
utility practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management, assisted by qualified staff in adequate num-
bers;
(b) by July 1, 1977 or such later date as the Bank may agree,
have appointed a qualified and experienced person to the position
of chief engineer and have employed two qualified and experienced
accountants;
(c) by January 1, 1978 or such later date as the Bank may
agree, prepare, with the assistance of qualified and experienced
experts, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, defining the Borrower's
manpower needs, and thereafter carry out such plan;
(d) by July 1, 1977 or such later date as the Bank may
agree, carry out a survey on the feasibility of increasing the
efficiency of its operations through staff training, and shall
appoint a senior member of its staff to be in charge of its train-
ing programs; and


﻿- 10 -
(e) consult the Bank about any proposed appointment to the
position of managing director or chief engineer of the Borrower
sufficiently in advance of any such appointment to afford the Bank
an adequate opportunity to comment on his qualifications and expe-
rience, and shall make any such appointment only after due consi-
deration of the Bank's views thereon.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all such rights and interests in
land and all such other rights, povers, privileges and franchises
as are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
installations, equipment and other property, and promptly as re-
quired make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with appropriate business and engineering practices.
(c) The Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets required for the efficient
conduct of its operations.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such action as shall be
appropriate to ensure that, as'from January 1, 1978 or such other
date as the Bank shall agree, all power supplied by it to its cus-
tomers for industrial steam production be the surplus hydroelectric
power supplied to the Borrower by VRA and be supplied to them on an
interruptible basis.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors approved by the Auditor General of
the Guarantor and acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its fi-
nancial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and finan-
cial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04, The Borrower shall revalue its fixed assets in
service at the end of fiscal year 1976 in accordance with a method
acceptable to the Bank, such revaluation to be completed by June 30,
1977, or such later date as the Bank may agree. Thereafter, the Bor-
rower shall revalue its fixed assets in service at the end of each
fiscal year in accordance with appropriate revaluation principles
and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall take promptly as required
all action as may be necessary (including, where appropriate,
adjustments in its rates for the sale of electricity) to ensure


﻿- 13 -
that its revenues are sufficient to produce an annual rate of
return of not less than eight per cent (8%) measured by taking
its net operating income as a percentage of the sum of (i) the
fair value of its fixed assets in service and (ii) an appropriate
allowance for its working capital; provided, however, that if the
revaluation of the Borrower's fixed assets in service that accord-
ing to Section 5.04 shall be completed by June 30, 1977, shows that,
as of December 31, 1976, the value of the Borrower's net fixed as-
sets in service is not equal to sixty-nine million Cedis (0 69,000,0o0O)
the rate of return specified in this paragraph (a) shall be adjusted
by multiplying the rate of return by a fraction composed of 69,000,000
as numerator and said value of the Borrower's fixed assets in service
(expressed in Cedis at rates of exchange in effect on December 31,
1976) as denominator.
(b) On or before July 31 of each year, the Borrower shall:
(i) review on the basis of realistic estimates and forecasts whether
its revenues will be sufficient to produce the annual return required
by paragraph (a) of this Section for the current fiscal year and the
next following fiscal year, and (ii) furnish to the Bank the results
of such review.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Net operating income" means income remaining after
subtracting from total operating revenues all charges
which in the normal conduct of business are proper
to be charged to the revenue account, including pro-
vision for adequate maintenance and straight line
depreciation of assets, but before deducting interest
and other charges on borrowings.


﻿- 14-
(ii) "Fair value of its fixed assets in service" means
the average value of the Borrower's gross fixed
assets in service at the beginning and end of the
fiscal year under consideration less the accumu-
lated provision for depreciation, reduced by the
amount contributed by customers for assets in
service, and by the Guarantor as capital contribu-
tions for subsidized stations, averaged on a similar
basis. The values employed for such depreciated
fixed assets in service shall be the values shown
in the Borrower's balance sheets as certified in
accordance with Section 5.02 of this Agreement.
(iii) "An appropriate allowance for its working capital"
means an amount equal to 5% of the average depre-
ciated value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
service for the respective fiscal year, computed
in accordance with paragraph (ii) above.
(iv) "Straight line depreciation of assets" means straight
line depreciation computed on the realistic value of
each category of the Borrower's gross fixed assets
in service.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the Borrower's net
revenue for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incur-
rence or for a later 12-month period ended prior to the date of
such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less than
1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement on all the Borrower's


﻿- 15 -
debt (including the debt to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal
year (including the fiscal year in which such debt is to be incurred).
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means all debt (including any
indebtedness assumed or guaranteed by the
Borrower) but shall exclude:
(A) debt representing money borrowed in the
ordinary course of business and maturing
by its terms on demand or not more than
one year after the original date of in-
currence, provided that the amount of such
debt at any time outstanding shall not ex-
ceed 10% of the Borrower's total operating
expenses excluding depreciation for the
preceding fiscal year or any later 12-month
period, whichever is greater; and
(B) debt which is incurred in the ordinary course
of business other than for money borrowed and
which is payable not more than one year after
the original date of its incurrence.
(ii) The term "incur" with reference to any debt shall
include any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred
on the date of execution and delivery of the loan
contract or agreement providing for such debt, and
debt guaranteed by the Borrower shall be deemed


﻿- 16 -
to be incurred by it on the date of execution and
delivery of the agreement for such guarantee.
(iii) The term "net revenue" shall mean gross operating
revenue, adjusted to take account of rates for the
sale of electricity in effect at the time of incur-
rence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year or 12-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and
operating expenses, but before provision for depre-
ciation and debt service requirements.
(iv) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean
the aggregate amount of principal repayments,
amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt.
(v) Whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the
time such valuation is made, for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the aggregate amount due to it as of
the first business day of every calendar month following December


﻿- 17 -
1977 on account of electricity supplied to its customers will be
less than the sum of the amounts charged or to be charged by it
on account of electricity supplied to its customers during the
three calendar months immediately preceding that day.
Section 5.08. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, apply
uniform rates for the sale of electricity to all industrial
enterprises.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) above, the Borrower may
continue to apply to industrial enterprises such rates as the
Borrower is obliged to charge them under contractual arrangements
in effect on the date of this Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not extend the duration of such
contractual arrangements.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall, subject to the provisions of
Section 12 of the Electricity Corperation of Ghana Decree, 1967,
N.L.C.D. 125 of the Guarantor, declare an appropriate annual divi-
dend out of such portion of its accumulated net earnings as in its
reasonable judgment will not be needed: (i) to meet any of its
liabilities due and payable on, or shall become due and payable
during the 12-month period immediately following, the date on which
such declaration or distribution is made; or (ii) to meet any
capital investment expenditure expected to be incurred.


﻿-18 -
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1977 revalue its inventories
and review its inventory management system;
(b) employ experienced and qualified financial experts to
assist the Borrower in carrying out the action specified in para-
graph (a) hereof; and
(c) (i) furnish to the Bank, promptly upon the completion
of the review of its inventory management system, the results of
such review, (ii) give the Bank a reasonable opportunity to com-
ment thereon, and (iii) promptly take such action as shall be
appropriate to improve said system.
Section 5.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not, from the date of this Agreement to June 30,
1980, undertake any construction or expansion project other than
the Project and rural electrification projects, involving aggregate
annual expenditures exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date June 24, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Managing Director
Electricity Corporation of Ghana
P.O. Box 521
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
HEADTRIC
Ghana


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
ELECTRICITY CORPORATION OF GHANA
By /s/ S. Quarm
Authorized Representative


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of such proceeds to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment, materials,       6,700,000
supplies, spare
parts and vehicles
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of ex-factory
factured                                cost
(2) Erection of lines             500,000        100% of foreign
and sub-stations,                            expenditures
and related works
(3) Consultants'                  150,000        100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(4) Unallocated                 1,650,000
TOTAL       9,000,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures on account of goods or
services required for Part A.4 of the Project until evidence
satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the Bank showing
that a letter of intent has been issued by VRA in respect of the
conclusion of a contract for the construction of a 161 kV electric
power transmission line linking VRA's substation at Dunkwa to VRA's
substation at Asanwinso; and


﻿- 24 -
(b) payments made for expenditures on account of goods or
services required for A.5 of the Project.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit
other than amounts allocated to Categories (4) and (5) of paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall have been
withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan
Account except under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in Section
1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce th- disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther vithdrawals under such Category may continue until all ex-
penditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 25 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:
1.   Construction of a 33/11 kV 2 x 10 MVA substation at
the Aboso glass factory and a 33 kV double circuit
transmission line linking that substation with VRA's
substation at Tarkwa.
2.   Construction of a 33/11 kV 2 x 10 MVA substation at
Teshie-Nungua and a 33 kV double circuit transmission
line and cable linking that substation with substation
L in Accra.
3.   Construction of a 33/3.3 kV 2 x 5 MVA substation be-
tween Accra and Weija, a 33 kV double circuit trans-
mission line linking the pumping station of the Ghana
Water and Sewerage Corporation at Weija through that
substation with substation A in Accra, and a 33 kV
single circuit transmission line linking said pumping
station to the irrigation area located about 6 km
southwest of Weija.
4.   Construction of seven 33/11 kV substations with a
total installed capacity of about 11.45 MVA, about
86 km of 33 kV single circuit transmission lines
linking VRA's substation near Asanwinso through said


﻿-27 -
substations with various industries at Sefwi-Wiawso,
Awaso, Subin and Bibiani, and related LV distribution
lines necessary to serve about 30,000 residents of the
Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area.
5.   Construction of four 33/11 kV substations and fifteen
33/11 kV/LV substations and a 33 kV single circuit
transmission line of about 91 km linking Kumasi through
said substations with Nsuta and Kumavu, together with
related LV distribution lines necessary to permit supply
of electricity to 12 townships and various industries,
water pumping stations and schools in the Nsuta-Kumavu
area.
Part B:   Improvement of the distribution network serving Tema,
including the laying of about 11 km of 33 kV cable,
equipping of two new 33/11 kV substations of 2 x 20
MVA each, reinforcing of two 33/11 kV substations
of 2 x 20 MVA and 2 x 10 MVA, respectively, and con-
struction of about 4 km of 33 kV overhead lines.
Part C:
1.   Supply of spare parts for the Borrower's existing
33 kV, 11 kV, and LV distribution grids, miscellaneous
distribution materials required for the development
of the Borrower's distribution networks during a
three-year period, and necessary service vehicles.


﻿- 28 -
2.   Reinforcement of Accra's distribution network.
Part D:
Study of the costs of power generation, transmission and
distribution, and of the pricing of electricity in Ghana.
*         *        e        e
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1982
through   August   1, 1996                    295,000
On February 1, 1997                                150,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 30 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for transmission lines and distribution equipment
and materials costing less than $50,000 equivalent may be awarded
to suppliers from which such items have been previously purchased
by the Borrower, provided, however, that:
(a) the aggregate cost of the items so procured does not
exceed $500,000 equivalent;
(b) such awards are made on the basis of negotiated prices;
(c) such awards are justified by considerations of stan-
dardization; and
(d) the prices of the contracts so awarded are reasonably
close to prices quoted for similar items under international com-
petitive bidding.


﻿- 32 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Ghana may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added


﻿- 33 -
in Ghana equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Ghana.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 34 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 35 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


