CNFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1381-GH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Third Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 24, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Volta River Authority (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million dollars
($39,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes whenever there is reasonable cause to be-
lieve that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate
to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out
of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be pro-
vided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-5-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, from time to time, exchange
views with the Borrower on matters related to the electrification of
Ghana's rural areas including the financial and economic viability
of potential rural electrification projects.
Section 3.03. (a) Whenever VRA shall increase its rates for
the sale of electricity to the Borrower, the Guarantor shall take
such action as shall be appropriate to permit the Borrower to in-
crease its rates for the sale of electricity so as to obtain the
additional revenues required by the Borrower to pay for VRA's rate
increase.
(b) The Guarantor shall take such action as shall be appro-
priate to permit the Borrower to charge all industrial enterprises
uniform rates for the sale of electricity as specified in Section
5.08 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all steps necessary
on its part to enable the Borrower to perform the obligations
set forth in Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Senior Principal Secretary, Ministry of
Finance of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Economic Planning
P.O. Box M76
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ S. Quarm
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


